ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64508	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 71 MPs attend the sitting, and to establish the Rules of Procedure an obligation to attend at least 84 MPs, I ask Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I ask the Members of Parliament to control their MPs' cards when they put them in MPs' units. Thank you. I find that 85 parliamentary identification cards are present in the electronic voting system and that another number of MPs are present in the hall, and that there are conditions laid down by the Rules of Procedure for the work of the National Assembly. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Aleksandar Jankovic and Miletic Mihajlovic. Notification of the invited to the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Đukić – Dejanović, besides the representative of the promoter Oliver Dulic, the Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, invited the sittings to be attended by Maja Lakicevic, senior adviser at the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning and Branislav Djelic, adviser to the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning. We are moving on to a joint principled search on the third and fourth points of the agenda: THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENTS AND THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE SUPPORT OF THE CIVIL INDUSTRY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE CONDITIONS OF THE ECONOMY CRISIS. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the proposals for the agenda for items three and four, and before the opening of the principled search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, a proportion of the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and this: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group of Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group of New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the parliamentary group of PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a series of MPs wanting to take part in a joint principled search, because on the basis of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be adopted by the time the agenda is opened, i.e. a joint general search on two points of the agenda. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic of the PUPS parliamentary group; MP Sasa Dujovic of the SPS-JS parliamentary group; MP Milorad Buha of the SRS parliamentary group. Before opening a search, with a reminder to submit a list of MPs who want to participate in the search, I am informing the MPs on the basis of Articles 90 and 87 that today the National Assembly will work after 18,00 hours, and that the subject of our work will be a joint principled search which will now be opened, as well as the laws which, by the decision of the National Assembly, as next in line, will unite us for a joint principled and uniform search and when we have a debate on another joint principled and uniform search, this will mark the end of our working day. A one-hour break will be given, whether at the usual time or after the debate is over, you will be informed of it in good time. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending the House Act and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis. Does promoter Oliver Dulic, environment minister, mining and spatial planning want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64509	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two important laws before us that had to be adopted by emergency procedure for objective urgency, because both products produce very significant consequences for this year and for next year. The importance of the Law on Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis is extended for two basic reasons. The first is that the world's economy is far from the rapid recovery we were hoping for when we limited the law to the end of last June. The world economy is on the verge of a new recession, whose seriousness is now impossible to predict. What experience tells us is that the negative consequences of the crisis can be minimised by focused and verifiable measures of state policy, and this law is one of the measures of state policy in which we are trying to save an extremely vulnerable sector of our society. The second reason for prolonging the validity of the law lies in what he has made possible and thanks to why some solutions of this law can become systemic, not just crisis. It's no coincidence that the construction industry is the subject of our special attention. It's a reminder, it's an economy sector with an exceptional multiplier effect. Each dinar invested in the construction industry leads to three dinars of investment in other sectors of the economy, and each new job in the construction industry leads to four new jobs in the branches that support it. At the same time, the construction industry is one of the most vulnerable industries on the world level. According to the International Labour Organisation statistics, five million construction workers were out of work only during the first year of the global crisis. In some countries, especially in our region, as many as 50% of construction workers are out of work. The objectives of this law are: overcoming the negative effects of the economic crisis in the Republic of Serbia in the area of construction, i.e. helping the domestic construction industry to get out of the crisis; encouraging the development and employment of domestic construction enterprises and ensuring the liquidity of this sector; encouraging the development and employment of domestic enterprises dealing with the production of construction materials; retaining the existing level of employment with the possibility of creating new jobs and promoting economic growth in other sectors of the economy. The project financing mechanism in line with this law begins by the government establishing individual projects financed from public funds. These projects can be implemented by domestic construction companies with appropriate experience and references and employment, which can employ a significant number of workers. In the implementation of these projects, domestic building material must be used in participation of at least 70%. The government is closer to prescribing the conditions and way of funding for each individual project, and in particular establishing the lowest and highest price for specific works. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when it comes to our country's response to the global economic crisis, the most significant resource is not finance, the most significant resource is time. That is why we have foreseen a procedure which, with the excellent results of providing a competitive procedure, has led to a dramatic reduction of the time that elapses from the approval of the project and the funding to the exit of the operation to the site. This was achieved by applying the negotiation procedure to the selection of designers, technical control officers, contractors, expert supervisors as well as the technical reviewer, i.e. for project financing purposes for building facilities. In this regard, it is my great pleasure to inform you that only two complaints have arrived at the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers since the beginning of the law in the Committee for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers – on the procedures implemented under the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the terms of the economic crisis and that one complaint has been respected, i.e. the procedure has been repeated. In order to remove any possibility of delays in the implementation of the project, it is also envisaged that a local, construction and use permit may also be issued by the Ministry responsible for works of construction if they are not issued by the competent authority within the legal time limit for the implementation of the project under this law. Applying this law, as well as the sub-legislative acts, the government approved a total of 325 projects on the territory of the Republic of Serbia by 1 December of which 250 projects were provided financing in the following way: of the total approved value of the project, the authorised project promoter is obliged to provide 10% of the project's proposed value in its budget. The ministry responsible for spatial planning in its budget is required to provide 10% of the approved value. Following the approval of the project by the government, a commission agreement is signed between the authorised project promoter, the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning and the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. When all three parties sign a commission agreement, the authorising officer shall carry out the procedure for selecting the most favourable bidder and sign the contract with him. The funds provided by business bank loans, which account for 80% of the project's value, are paid off by the Republic of Serbia and by the proposed authority over 50-50%. This means that half of the 80% funding financed by the Fund for Development is due to be returned within the next five years, with a grace period of one year and interest of 2.5%. The selection process of the most favourable bidder for the approved project shall be carried out by the authorised project promoter, i.e. in the Law on the Encouragement of the Construction Industry, with strict adherence to the sublegal acts, or by the Regulation on criteria for the determination of tenderers that can participate in the implementation of the project. By 1 December this year, the government approved 250 projects for which funding was provided: 113 projects totalling 5 billion and 405 million dinars, approved by local self-governments from the AP Vojvodina territory; 11 projects totalling four billion and 246 million, approved for construction works on the territory of the city of Belgrade and 126 projects of a total value of seven billion 946 million approved by other local self-governments in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I would particularly like to stress that by 1 December this year, the government has approved 75 projects in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for which the funds have been provided in full by authorised project promoters, i.e. the ministry and public enterprises. This means that funding for these projects did not need to be provided in the Republic budget. By applying this law in the last year, the construction industry has, it can be said, been saved in some of its segments. Serbia is the only country in the region that grew in the construction sector in 2011. All other countries of our region that did not have this law, in response to the crisis, had a dramatic decline in transport in the construction industry. Some of them had a complete devastation of the construction sector. In the last quarter of this year, the growth of the ordered jobs or the works carried out has reached almost 30% compared to 2010. Also, thanks to this law and the projects it implements, we have finally managed to start rebuilding buildings in many cities that have been built for several decades, where funding and construction sites have not been provided, which have been closed very often turned into concrete skeletons that have not served anything. Thanks to this project, sports stadiums, sports facilities, cultural homes, health homes, hospitals, schools, kindergartens and other public infrastructures are being built in Serbia today, contributing significantly to increasing the quality of life of citizens living in the territories of these municipalities. And what is most important – the employment of domestic construction operations. As for the amendment and addition of the Housing Act, we propose to the National Assembly, in order to address numerous requirements for the purchase of apartments as soon as possible, i.e. the change in the manner in which they are paid. The problem that we are solving with these changes and additions has arisen because the Republic Statistics Institute of 1 January 2011 took as an inflation measure to no longer publish price data at a little bit but consumer price data. In addition, the Republic Bureau of Statistics has ceased to publish profit data in the economy of the Republic. In order to bring official statistics into line with international statistical standards, the Labour Classification Act was adopted and, on the basis of it, the Labour Classification Regulation. In accordance with Article 10 of the Treaty on The Act on the Classification of Activities, the Classification of Activities, was established by the Law on Classification and the Register of Units of Classification and applied until the end of 2010. For these reasons, the Republic Statistics Institute has not been able to publish data on the average income in the economy since January 2011, and it has stopped publishing the index price to a small extent. Because of all this, it is necessary to bring the Law of Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Act into force in order to continue the purchase of dwellings. By passing this law, a further purchase of apartments will continue, as well as a change in the manner of payment of the same, to all persons who have acquired this right under the House Act. Given the need for immediate adoption of these laws, I thank you and invite you to support these legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64510	Before I ask the committee's rapporteurs if they want a word, I am informing the National Assembly that the authorised representative of the Liberal Democratic Party Group, MP Bojan Djuric, is. I'm asking if the committees want a word. National MP Jovan Nesovic, Committee on Urbanism and Construction? No, I don't. ) National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ) Whether the Presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word, if so, please sign up. MP Bojan Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64511	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these two laws, as well as those we spoke of yesterday, were proposed more or less with a technical explanation, especially when it comes to the House Act, the minister spoke a little more about this Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry in terms of the economic crisis, which was also one of its key, I would say both the political and the projects that he tried to implement in these few years at the Ministry, and therefore the aspect of the understandable and ambition to talk about it. There are a few problems when it comes to this law. Some of them are wider than its range, are actually bound by what your Ministry of Justice, Mr. Dulic, but above all the government has been doing in its economic and economic resources for the past three and a half years. We must remind you this time, in fact, of one of the key causes or key reasons of this quite serious fall and of the construction industry and of all the sectors of the economy that follow that industry after 2009 and this practically big earthquake on the market that you have caused such changes to the Law on Planning and Construction, which are partially corrected, it seems to me this year, when we discussed the amendments to the Law here, but these initial, negative, catastrophic consequences are partly left. We also talked a lot about this law when it was adopted in mid-2010, criticising some of its basic settings, on the side of what the business results of the companies dealing with construction, what is the situation with procedures or suspension of the real, transparent market procedures that you have carried out in that law, were also initiated before the Constitutional Court, but that we are dealing with this, apparently, great results of this law that you have presented, and that you mention partly in the light of this law. Those who may have listened to you as viewers today, as citizens of Serbia, may hardly conclude that this is actually about amending a law that has one or two members and that the only change is in Article 1 of this Bill's amendment and supplementation, in fact saying "2011" is changed in the words "2012". This is not the only law that has been proposed and adopted in this mandate of the National Assembly, we have several times similarly, if you remember changing, or maintained that period for the validity of the old passports, or for the issue of new ones. You have also expressed yourself in the objectives of extending the validity of this law and in the statistics that you have presented very optimistically about what has been done so far, quoting some statistics. First, in the light of the law, you say that in the process of reviewing the law, it has been estimated that individual solutions should be defined more precisely, and then you say, in addition to that, that the validity of this law should be extended for the next calendar year, that is, the next year. However, in this proposal for a law that only has one member, there are no new solutions, or there is no fulfillment of that objective that you set, so that individual solutions should be defined more precisely, unless you consider the new, more precise definition of the change in 2012 instead of 2011. If you have already decided that at the end of the year, you are now coming to the National Assembly, just a few weeks before entering the election campaign, with such a law, if you already have some negative results that have come from the analysis of the effects of these laws, I suppose some kind of negative, which comes from the construction industry, then this may have been an opportunity to accept this job and include some new, better, more efficient solutions in the bill, so both statistics and real data are much better. Practically in the same part of the argument you are talking about positive statistical economic effects by quoting the most recent statistics, and you say among other things, that the value of contracted works by construction contractors in the first three months of 2011 increased by 59.4% compared to the same period last year, that the number of building permits increased in May by 13.1%) compared to the same period last year, etc. I don't argue that in most segments, when it comes to the construction industry, there are some kind of, mostly minimal advance shifts. It's a big question of whether it's primarily the result of this law of yours, whose validity we're extending this time, or some other circumstances to it. But regardless, I don't understand the need to take statistics in part and selectively. If you already point out in the explanation that the latest statistics show, which is such a common media formulation, are perhaps not the most appropriate for the reasoning of the law, then I must remind you that there is, after all, a more indisputable institution in this country called the Republic Bureau of Statistics and a huge database of very serious data from this institution. Let's say the last monthly statistical bulletin available at the Republic Statistics Institute is a bulletin that is completed, which includes, therefore, the month of September of this year and it speaks very comprehensively of statistical indicators in the construction industry, including the effects of this law. The analysis, i.e. the monthly statistical bulletin, says the value of new contractor contracts from the Republic of Serbia increased by 15.2% in January-September 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. It may have been 59 in March, but since we're in the month of December today, I think it's fairer, that if I'm already quoting statistics, I'm quoting those data that are accurate at this point, relevant, which includes the first nine months of this year, since I'm guessing that you're relying on them for your ambition, that you're applying this law in the coming year, and you're probably producing even better results. In the same place, of course, it is said that the number of licenses issued is higher by about 8.6%, not 13% as you say in the explanation, that when it comes to buildings and similar types of objects, that this increase in the number of licenses issued is only 3.6, and not the number that you state in the explanation, etc. I'm not saying that you had the idea to falsify reality, but you had the need to simply point out in the first place only what are positive effects. You have been in this Parliament many times during three, three and a half years, and most often you have talked about building operations, about ambition to protect the construction industry, to preserve every job, and it was one of, however, the mutually opposed objectives of your government at the very beginning when you simply and politically presented yourself as a socially responsible government. It may be interesting to look at the situation when it comes to the number of jobs, or the number of employees in the construction industry. I believe that one of your ambitions was, as the law says, to preserve the existing number of employees, and that if possible, that number becomes larger. There are also data for this, data are September 2011 at September 2010. In September 2010, these are therefore the first months of the application of this law on the promotion of the construction industry, according to irrelevant statistics, the same house that I have quoted for a while, around 74,000 workers worked in construction. In September of this year, therefore, 13.14 months after the start of the law, whose positive effects are so ghastly represented here, the number of construction workers is 73,000. So he's even slightly smaller than he was at the start of applying this law. You don't talk about that information in the light of this law. Finally, there is not a word about what may actually be at this point and perhaps the biggest or certainly biggest problem and the construction industry and building operations, and the general industry, and the economy in this country. It is, in fact, this enormous indifference which is primarily generated by the state's behaviour, on the one hand, irresponsible entry into projects that the state practically knows in advance that it cannot finance, or that it cannot successfully service the credit and other obligations it makes with international or domestic creditors to perform these works. There is no data as to how much these debts to the state at this point, how much they actually endure construction and all other accompanying industries because of this kind of calculation and payment of VAT in which it, practically, amounts very large, since it is an industry that, in practice, employs a huge amount of money in each of its jobs in which, therefore, they finance the state. If we are talking about the costs of applying these laws, they cannot be reduced to just what you say in a duress statement in an explanation, or in that assessment of financial resources, that there is no need to provide additional resources in the budget to implement this law. A few weeks ago, I saw one of your statements that is not exactly on the background of what you said here in your explanation, so, you, too, are planning new funds in the 2012 budget planning process, which will allow these laws to be applied. But regardless of whether there are budget items in this accounting sense that will help to realise this law or will function as practically as before, first and foremost through the involvement of resources and resources of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, when assessing the costs then you have to take some other parameters that are not just budgetary. One of them is how this law affects the free market, i.e. what should be the most important part of the construction activity or activities of companies, businesses, in this area. What is the consequence of this fact that you are practically building or finishing on Belgrade's territory at the moment, although as far as I can see, there are few deadlines for completing some of the facilities in this famous settlement of Stepa Stepanovic, as it affects the rest and construction and real estate markets. Finally, there may also be something to say about the fact that 45%, 46% and newly agreed works, practically, related to the wider territory of the city of Belgrade, and that those regions in Serbia, which are in fact the most endangered, where the construction industry, practically, has completely failed or stopped, that only a few percent of the projects and projects under this law and projects are generally, and even when they are realised, are more or less reduced, I must say, to pre-election activities or pre-election projects to almost bizarre, and the situations we have had and to see in the past few weeks of the closure of Aqua parks or open swimming pools in late October and early November. Then there is no longer enough justification that may have sometimes been true that the works were so arranged, that it was the dynamics of the works. It simply seems to the citizens of this country, on the one hand, unserious and on the other, as some kind of realization and your ambition, that instead of basic, therefore, living goals or needs, you deliver some kind of result that seems a little bizarre. The public talked a lot about it. We have watched footage from some municipalities in southern Serbia that have virtually no asphalt in the city centre and have magnificent facilities that have invested hundreds of millions of dinars or millions of euros. It's actually a key issue in the realisation of this law. Who decides whether one project is good, whether it is profitable, whether it should be at the top of the list of priorities, and what its real, financial and social effects will be. That would have to be, I guess, the basic goal of this law. The other goal would have to be to increase employment in the construction industry, I think I've shown in some way that neither of them are, not entirely, but are almost fulfilled at all. You, for these projects, especially for housing projects on Belgrade's territory, are primarily engaged as some kind of state-owned institution of the Serbia Building Directorate. Please, and as a minister who is also known in public as someone who is, as I say, informatively aware, who is very fond of this and these methods of communication, to look at this frightening website of the Serbian Civil Directorate. So it won't give hope that the construction sector will develop in Serbia, no one who comes to that site, no domestic potential investor, no party. This goes to that level that this Construction Directorate, which still has significant resources, does not even have an abnormal labour informant at the moment. Which is her minimum legal obligation. You moved the directorate to a new address, I think in the middle of this year, if I'm not mistaken in Arsenija Charnojevic's boulevard. Look at the labour informer, there's a construction directorship still in King Alexander's boulevard, it's great that you can do it right away. Of these huge projects that you've represented both here and in public, only a small number are on that website. Not to talk about other things. Maybe it's more efficient to be someone else, not that directorship or someone else, not the state, the administrator, the head of these projects. In any case, Serbia's Construction Directorate is actually serving as a flow water heater for funds that will take place or for jobs, decisions that must be made. We give these construction directorates here in the Assembly guarantees for loans, we practically give them the funds and those minimum obligations that they have for the realisation of this law. Finally, maybe now's an opportunity, the budget is over but we don't have it yet, so I can't see how much the means are actually meant for realisation, for subsidies, for incentives in the construction industry for next year. It might be very important if you told us. You have to understand that the public, that political parties, particularly opposition parties, are very interested in the issue. We simply would not want this pre-election campaign, or election campaign, which soon begins to turn really back into the construction of these, or the announced construction of those villages. Your fellow government officer, Bozidar Delic, was practically opening up the construction site or finishing the site ten days ago, you remember those lamells, apartments for scientific workers. I remember these sites were opened in 1999 and 2000. If there is a chance that we can discuss this further by the end of this working day, I hope that, at least in these last months, you will finally turn to a much more serious analysis of the effects and of this law and of all the laws that you have adopted in the framework of your portfolio, in the past few years. Please don't, if in other segments this government takes on many elements of continuity with the policy of the 1990s, especially in this anti-European segment, don't accept these construction business building manners, so to speak, Milutin Mrkonjic, it won't take us anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64512	Seventeen minutes used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Oliver Dulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64513	Thank you, Mr. Djuric, I think today is also a chance to have a correct and constructive debate regarding the effects of this law. I remember very well, in June of last year when the law was passed and there were huge objections about several aspects of this law, which were in practice denied, and today it is undoubtedly proven that the law helped the construction industry. And any well-intentioned builder who has had the opportunity to get a job thanks to this law will tell you that literally this law and measures of the government that I have presented here, that this extremely difficult year is going to get through, at least to hire an operative. Immediately, I should say the prices at which the deals were agreed in Serbia today are somewhere on average 20% lower than the prices in the construction market before the crisis began. These are prices that are certainly good for the state as an investor, and they are not so good for the builders. And the builders failed to come to the green branch thanks to this law and say that the crisis has passed for them. No, it's a very bad situation in the building, and I think we'd be unrealistic if we said, thanks to this law, it's a great situation in the building. It is true that people remain jobless, it is true that this law could not provide every construction firm in Serbia, and every construction producer in Serbia with a job. It's not possible. It's impossible to develop any business branch in which only the state is an investor. Unfortunately, we have had the opportunity to see an extremely difficult year or a series of extremely difficult years in which private investments have almost completely disappeared, in an apartment building, in which private investments are significantly reduced when it comes to the construction of industrial commercial buildings. In which the state had to create a program to talk about the small construction and construction companies that have shown great tenacity and great vitality, because when we talk about construction, we talk about an economic branch that has been burdened with problems not just over the past few years, I would say for decades, which is why they have shown the possibility of surviving, to help them really survive this global crisis. And just thanks to this law, I'm going to underline it again. We managed to preserve some of that construction operation. All other countries of the region, let's not compare to Germany and Sweden. Look at the situation in the construction sector in Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Montenegro and Macedonia, and look at Serbia. We still managed to achieve growth. No other state wanted that. I've been in contact with colleagues who deal with construction in other countries. They were looking for models to start a similar project now and to use state money to try to save the construction sector, just as we imagined it here in Serbia about a year and a half ago. I have the impression that very often many opposition MPs deny the right of some in this country to be optimistic at all and to turn any project into a successful realization and to boast that something has succeeded. I don't think anyone here can deny that aid to the building in this way didn't lead to certain results. You used one expression that was used and then used, a year and a half ago and it's really denied so many times that it can now, of course, be used for the promotional purposes of this political option that it did, but it's not in itself the goal. We don't build Podkin's village. That's not true. And if you don't believe me, please go to Stepa Stepanović's construction site today. You'll see a construction site with 5,000 apartments, 4,600 and some apartments and a huge business center, where nearly 15,000 people will live. At this point, there are some 15,000, 20,000 construction workers at the site. The whole project will employ 30,000 construction workers. We know each other, if one building has about 45 apartments on average, almost 100 buildings. It is a huge construction project that has been able to literally rise from zero in just a few months, thanks to this law and thanks to the demonstrated ability to lead projects in the country without scandals, without delay, without any doubt that anything illegal has been done and to lead to the level where they are today. I don't think any of you, if you want to be fundamentally well-intentioned, or if you don't want to be maliced, can say that these construction sites are being embodiesded with any kind of problem, which is so important to our society and especially to our political life, which from the beginning is being dumped on every project that starts, whatever it is he's bringing, whatever his idea is, whatever the mission or the idea of those that started those projects. So we deeply believe that we have led these construction projects in the best possible way and that we have introduced several new standards into Serbia. Today I want to talk about standards. First standard, our projects aren't Podkin's villages. What we start will be over. What will not be completed during the term of office of this government, such as Stepa Stepanovic, will be completed during the next government's term of office, but will be completed. It will be brought to the level that it is not possible not to finish and there will be no dissatisfied workers left behind, there will be no debt left, there will be no kind of problem that will scandalize this project and push it into a foreign road because no one with these projects will have anything to do with it. When given thanks to these projects, this ministry itself will be led by and how interesting it will be to divide when talking about a new government between who knows what coalitions exactly because there is a great political potential to use good projects that are started during this term. Another standard that is extremely important, we owe no one money. It is true that the state, the budget, in particular the budgets of local self-government and public enterprises, the various state funds have generated enormous indifference and that it has also affected the state of the construction industry today. What we've set as standard is that you can't owe money to the builders, you do these works, it confirms supervision through any kind of check and it gets paid immediately. There is no one who can say today that from these projects run by this ministry and the Building Directorate owes a single dinar to the identified situations that have been defined. There are some problems still between contractors and subcontractors, between contractors and those who produce construction materials, but believe me, we are responding to each of these applications because we are not going to let the state project generate someone's liquidity or someone's economic death again, as was the case in the past. This government inherited huge debts to the construction operation, regardless of the years that were much better in economic terms during the past government, that they were also the years in which everything was to be paid, to pump money into the economy in order to generate growth in economic activities, not to push that economy into the problems that we found it in when we entered it. I mean, in particular, low construction, i.e. travel economy. That's the second standard we've reached. The third standard we have achieved is that we have regained confidence in state projects and at this point we can say with great satisfaction that there is almost no interest in buying apartments compared to the private sector which was usually applicable to the sector that produces better apartments, higher quality etc. when the state project is compared. At this point, Stepa Stepanovic is a project where apartments are released as soon as they are sold, if they match the squares, immediately sold. In the last 10 days alone, we've had over 100 apartments for money. The moment the crisis began as regards the stability of the euro, people who have some deposits, who have some money, immediately went to Stepo and bought apartments that have not yet started to build. So we have regained confidence that the state project means a legal apartment, well built by standards, with the use of quality domestic materials and, most importantly, a reliable investor. Buy an apartment from him, you'll get that apartment and you won't be fooled, as was the case in the past. I'm not saying it's a solution. I must say, none of us are too happy right now to be the only serious investor in a construction operation right now. It's not a final solution. In order for the construction industry and the construction sector to come to the green branch, it is necessary to restart private investment. In order to start private investments it is necessary to increase demand on the market. In order to increase demand on the market, overall opportunities need to be stabilised. In order for this to happen, banks need to have a much more flexible relationship and as regards project financing and project financing and financing of the purchase of construction products, these are primarily business premises. All this requires good coordination between all state authorities, including the National Bank. These are all things that represent one big problem. None of us want the state to be the only investor in the construction sector, but in years of crisis, when everyone's careful, when everyone's retreating, when there's no demand for apartments, when there's no private investment, when little factories are built, when there's generally one low potential of growth, the state has to step in and help build an operation because it's going to disappear. As for a little broader report that I didn't say in my original speech, I think it's correct to say that at this point in the 250th construction site we started, it's open to 197 of them, 53 unfortunately it's not open yet. I see a big problem here in the functionality of local self-governments that choose projects along the way. This is the way I want to answer your question. We as the Government of the Republic of Serbia have not interfered with the selection of projects that come as proposals from a local level. So, the pool in Babusnica was a proposal for Babusnica, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Aquaparty in Sokobanja was the choice of Sokobanje, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We trust local self-government when through this project help wants to finish something that's a mockery, which is a concrete skeleton, or some hole that's long forgotten, a million times opened and never finished. I believe when it is estimated that it is necessary for their citizens, when they assume political responsibility, in the end, to justify, in the poor conditions in which there is no elemental infrastructure, they build such things, so we believe that it is exactly what this local self-government needs and we do not get into it. These are all projects that employ a large number of domestic workers, who engage in the use of domestic materials. These are all projects that can all help the construction industry. So we didn't go into the selection of projects. Of some 325 projects proposed to the government, 250 were selected. What was seen is that there is equal regional representation, that the greater the number of municipalities and cities will be included in this project. I think, at least as far as correctness is concerned, or the way the projects were chosen, I think we've achieved the maximum possible result. 53 construction sites have not been opened yet, but what's a fact and what doesn't make us happy and why we believe that this law will continue to give effect in the following year is that only eight billion dinars have been placed through the project so far, over these 250 projects. There's 10 billion left to be placed. The next year will be the year in which 10 billion will be placed to aid the building right through the completion of projects that started this year. For this reason, we are not in the budget, which you will discuss next week, provided for additional funding regarding this project, but we will provide it through other projects that I will talk about a little later. What's also a problem, is that almost 100 of these projects that are now open as construction sites were only opened a few months ago. It took a year, regardless of the speedy procedure, regardless of the very clear dynamics to even contract these jobs and to get the builders to the construction sites. This is what is definitely the problem with us, which is one chronic ineffectiveness of decision-makers at different levels, who, when they have everything they need, secure funds, a law that provides them with a quick dynamic of public procurement, with respect for transparency, full competitiveness, are unable to introduce the builders into work for almost a year. It's something that we also use for analysis, because, again, I said it in one sentence in the opening statement, this model of contracting jobs, when it comes to building, which involves directly negotiating with at least 10 bidders you call, three from local self-government territory, whose territory the construction project is being performed, seven from the territory of the Republic of Serbia has led to serious competition in the negotiation of these transactions, has led to the price being minimised in relation to the diameter and pre-adjustment of works, is somewhere I say the average is almost 20%, which is the fantastic thing that has been achieved, to a very clear transparency, in which companies have no reason and opportunity to negotiate each other, because each needs a job and every wants to get a job at any price, just to take their workers out on construction sites. What's obviously showing as a problem is that no matter what, we can't achieve the efficiency we've been planning, and that's something we're taking care of and what we want to talk about the future. The good thing I'm talking about is that this system solution for the amendments and additions of the Public Procurement Act is, in my opinion, because the previous model for the construction works that were contracted led to this, and I talked about it in June of last year to perform a whole new business branch of the so-called business. the destroyer of the tender, which appears in tenders, which appeal to the Commission for the protection of the rights of the tenderers, which is packed with complaints, which cannot resolve it within the deadlines which are sometimes a year and which are then with those investors and those who have really got the job because they have a really correct price, negotiate and talk about paying them and withdraw from the procedure. This happened almost daily in the building. These were the problems that we couldn't do for a year, and when we got everything secured, we got to get into the realisation of the project. This is exactly the law that prevented it. This law ensured that you get correct prices in a correct competition, that you get them within the time limits that are appropriate to get the builders out as soon as possible on construction sites. For the end, thank you. I didn't know. I just looked at the website of the Building Directorate. It's an address. They've changed. Did they change it thanks to you or did they change it otherwise? Anyway, you're opening a problem here. Now we can talk about it. If I were them, I wouldn't pay for a change of site. When you look at how the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or my ministry went, when the tools for modernising the administration were ordered, to conduct politics in the way it is done in any country of Europe, and when it comes out to the public how much it costs, so when you go through a media harangu, because people don't understand web portals, what websites are, how much it costs, what it does. That looks like a lot of money. Then you really get into a situation where you say, "What would I spend?" Why would I go through it when the public doesn't understand it first, and secondly, what does that bring to me? I believe that's exactly why not just this one, but most of the country's portals and websites at this point cost nothing. Do some student for 100 euros, because any decision-makers will not go through a kind of criticism that is completely unwarranted, completely incorrect. It puts him in a situation where he shows up as a corrupt thief, and basically he just wanted to do a good thing. I'll talk to them. I believe that this web portal that you've described, what it's supposed to look like, is costing a lot of money to the public today and the situation we're in. Probably that's why they won't change the website either, as the entire state administration won't. I'm sorry about that. And let me tell you right now, every time there's a need, my ministry has no problem doing it, because we believe that the only way and the only way to improve the work in this country is to describe it computerically. That fighting corruption is only possible if we have the opportunity to make the entire system transparent by using the Internet. Let me tell you something, we introduced the first one, we changed the public procurement process, when it comes to small-value public procurement, using the Internet, and we've already achieved huge results. It's impossible for someone to take the money now. We introduced for the first time on the Internet that anyone who notices corruption in the ministry wants to report any of the inspectors on the ground to the minister, to the ministry employee, can do so, and that's news that's automatically published on the Internet. There's no way he's hiding. We're trying to use portals, use that communication to improve the work of the administration, but there's no understanding for that. I know you're also an extremely written and informative man, but I believe in what we're talking about no one will support or understand, so let's get back to the subject. The law on aiding the building is a good law. He helped build an operation in difficult conditions. He'll help next year. As far as the budget is concerned, we've given the truth. The implementation of this law next year will not require budgetary resources. What we're going to do next year is we're going to provide a significant part of the funding to help build, but now we're going to focus on energy efficiency in construction, on the isolation of buildings, on changing windows and doors, on models that will involve co-financing, which will include funding, i.e. subsidising interest rates, and which in some cases in socially endangered categories will mean full funding by the state, over the next year, to encourage growth in the production of insulation materials, windows, doors, all domestic products and, on the other hand, to create a model of behaviour for our citizens in which they realize that energy efficiency in construction is essentially an investment that pays off very quickly, but provides long-term energy savings which, unfortunately, will cost more and more and more time in front of us. I thank you for your correct debate, and I am prepared to answer all other questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64514	National MP Bojan Djuric, two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64515	You've opened a lot of issues, Minister. First around this information, let me put it that way. We went to one maybe wrong side, but your comment is very important, and that's why I want to use it for something else. We heard here yesterday from Minister Markovic that no one normal in this country will choose a more expensive offer for a job, although he thinks it's more real, better. Today you say that most officials, officials in state institutions, do not want to do a job that is probably necessary or justified, because it expects a negative reaction from the public. That's a terrible message. That's absolutely inadmissible. The biggest question is, who created such an atmosphere in this country? I'm afraid that your government and your President of the Republic, who have been campaigning in the public for years, have been looking primarily for culprits among civil servants and lower officials for various models of corruption, for years threatening that something will happen and thus created a picture in public. For years, such a picture has been created on this House. The problem with the price of the National Assembly site did not seem to have been spent on its own, but served for years stories about prices in the restaurant, the prices of kevapa, the amount of paper spent, fuel stamps, so as not to be told the same thing about the government. That's why it's not a good enough excuse, whether or not you've seen your ministry behave differently. We can talk about what public procurement is, perhaps, another time, what the ministries are doing, and yours, when they're getting, say, a public communications service and public notice, whether it's always about the same agency, whether it's a Crown Street agency, which doesn't even have its own website, and it's about noting the public, etc. There are reports of state authorities talking about it, but I didn't want to turn this debate into that kind of communication. Just one more thing, I don't have much time, you said the state isn't effective and there's always ineffectiveness. That's what I'm talking about. The state will always be inefficient... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... Whenever it decides at any level, and as far as projects are concerned across Serbia, these are projects in a country where you have 100 mayors. You still have some influence on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64516	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64517	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing two laws that have been proposed by an emergency procedure. It is unacceptable for the SRS to see that such laws that have a perspective, as explained by these laws, is a broad range of positive and stimulating measures and it is unacceptable that we adopt these last days of the calendar and budget year and that we bring back certain things, and we know in practice that this is causing certain problems. When we talk about encouraging the construction industry in the Republic of Serbia, in terms of the economic crisis, we saw from the minister's explanation that the construction industry was saved and conditions were created for normal work and functioning of the construction industry. If that's true, then that's good. However, economic and financial indicators and administrative-administrative indicators say it does not stand exactly that way. Why isn't it standing? Because we in the construction industry have a level of employment that is getting smaller and smaller every year. According to indicators, let's say, before 2000, we had nearly 300 thousand employees, in 2005, 250 thousand, in 2008 125 thousand, now 70, 2010 in 73-74 thousand, now probably below 70,000. You see, now, this employment fall, which clearly says something is wrong. Something must be done by the state to stop this negative flow. When we talk about the level of production in the area of the construction industry and the primary production of housing, business facilities, etc. We also see a huge fall. In the construction of apartments is an incredible fall, approximately 90% of the level that was before this crisis, I'm just saying some points of view. I have often expressed these views here and from the aspect of the SRS and asked for urgent state intervention to stop this negative flow. In 2008, we had 19 thousand and 800 built apartments and moved apartments, in 2009 below four thousand, in 2010 two and a half thousand. This year, given the number of building permits issued, probably somewhere between a thousand and a thousand and a half. If you can finish Stepanović next year, then we can expect some increase, but if we make a 2008 comparative. - In 2011, then we see that it's at seven, eight to ten percent of what was in 2008. That's close, that's right there. Three years from now, we've had a fall like that. Ten percent of what happened in 2008. What was the law about encouraging the construction industry in the context of the economic crisis? It says – the objectives of this law are to overcome the negative effects of the economic crisis, encourage the development of domestic construction enterprises and ensure the liquidity of this sector, encourage the development of domestic employment, retaining existing employment levels, fostering economic development in the Republic of Serbia. Has one of these goals been set to the end? It's not. Is it partially done? Only partially. Some percent of what's been drawn, it's done and that's the real truth. Real indicators in the area of the construction industry say there is no halted trend of decline. We're still down, and it's a huge fall. The Committee for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on several occasions spoke with representatives of the Union of employers, the Chamber of Commerce, the Trade Unions in the area of construction, trying to look at current problems and looking for exits from all of this. What did they propose to us, what did they propose to the state authorities, and we are one of the state authorities? We've been calling the Ministry's representatives and looking for common solutions. The first thing is to try and find a job. It's the first task of the state, to find a job. The state must not finance the production and construction of construction facilities. He can't. No European country, no modern country does that. They create climate in a variety of ways – economic nature, economic nature, financial nature, fiscal nature, freeing from certain fees, taxis and obligations and various other charges which are a burden for the construction industry. It's a set of measures that are necessary to stop these trends. Furthermore, the initiative by the associations that work in this area was – cancel VAT on invoices, insert on paid, charged. The initiative exists not only from this branch, it exists from other branches, but there is no movement. The construction company that finished the facility, that moment the state calms down everything it is, must be invoiced. When they charge, that's the question. We do not have an adequate legislative regulation that obliges the buyer to settle that obligation within 15, 30, 60, 90 days. When's the payday? The average is 128 – 130 days. This company, this business operator who finished and invested, in what way did he invest? He invested, through the line of duty. We don't have a natural battery to build and create from that battery. We're in charge. These companies and these business entities go to a bank where they pay huge interest, among other things, they also pay VAT and other taxes and contributions, because workers must be paid, various suppliers of construction materials and operators of certain services must be paid. When a construction entity will be charged and when it will execute and lead to the completion of that construction work, that is the question. They say - cancel our VAT. When we charge, it's no problem to pay. When we pay and settle tax obligations, but there's no movement. There's a lot of initiatives that have run out of movement. You have proposed a law and the Law on Encouragement in the area of the construction industry has been adopted with very clear goals – overcoming the negative effects of the economic crisis. It is not overcome in this way through this law - the promotion, development and employment of domestic construction companies and the provision of liquidity for this sector. Since 2008, when it seriously rang in this area, 5,000 companies have been abolished. There are 50,000 workers in the construction industry and this branch. Did we stop those negative currents? Did we make employment possible this way? We didn't. Minister, you say that four jobs are automatically opened through a single job in the construction industry, that the state has done a number of measures of economic, financial, fiscal nature to encourage employment. Not building apartments, what you're doing through this law. Small and medium-sized enterprises should be encouraged. You've entered the Development Fund. How? You've changed the law to pull up the battery through the Development Fund. Instead of funding small and medium-sized enterprises in the area of the construction industry through the Development Fund, what is the function of the Development Fund. There's a mission. That fund's been working since 2002, and that's how it worked. You've changed the Development Fund Act to enable and extract the battery, because there's a accumulation there. You said except for a billion and this year, and ten billion next year. It's not a dispute, we'll get apartments. We'll hire a part of the construction industry, but what are we going to do in 2014, 2015, etc.? When we talk about the worth of this law, what you wrote in the impact analysis, you say – overcoming negative effects, encouraging, developing and hiring domestic businesses, retaining existing employment levels with the possibility of creating new jobs, encouraging economic development, resolving current over-indebtedness, preserving the resources of construction enterprises, increasing financial discipline, etc. Why are we making this happen? Why just a year? If the effects of this law are positive, let it go for a thousand years. Let this law apply until 3012. Why would they stop me? Everything you write here has to fit reality. Obviously, reality is what's written here is in collegiate, and that's why we draw such conclusions. When I tell you that for a thousand years, we have this law, and it's natural and normal, that if such effects are, and if that's how the goals are set, we have reality, and that's what's prosperous, why should we be devoting this law? Obviously, we have problems here. First, the State aid control law that enters into force on 1 January 2012 prevents such funding. You can't do that and you won't be able to do that. The Accounting Act, the Budgetary System Act, also makes it impossible for you to encourage in this way. You become, or the state becomes, a local self-government becomes a business entity. It's not the point, it's not the legal intensity that makes it possible for the state to build it, that it creates it. It's a negative situation about privatisation in the area of the construction industry. You know how many meetings you've had with the Nibens Group, etc., one crazy privatisation in this dam. The construction industry in the Republic of Serbia has always had positive results. It's been working on all the world markets, with profits, etc. And today we charge certain services that were done before the wars in the Balkans, 90 years ago. Among other things, what goes with Iraq, certain arrangements, and Russia, etc. shows that we had the right construction industry. Now, through privatisation, she's been destroyed. But today we have these workers. These workers need to be organized. Today, you have open markets, construction markets, Russia and Ukraine and Belarus, including Europe and Asia and Africa, only someone has to stand behind them. Who can stop? It's just a country. Only by state activity can we improve the construction industry, but it's a set of measures I'm talking about. The SRS Economic Team is preparing an economic programme, and among other things, we've been dealing with this problem, you'll get it to help you, because it's obvious that what is currently current is not meeting the needs of this moment and we won't have what we have tomorrow, because these negative flows are devastating. When we talk about foreign markets, we have economic representatives in our embassies. Why are they avoiding each other? Private companies, I personally talked in some situations, get serious offers from Russia. Russia is a huge market. Privates go to these markets, unorganized, as many as they can, twenty, fifty, eighty workers, etc. I say we can take thousands, hundreds of thousands of workers there. I was in Petrovgrad a year and a half ago when I got information from workers working there, millions of people working in Petrovgrad, foreign workers, not only in construction, but also in other works. Why don't we have our businesses there? Why don't we have construction contractors going there, taking them into state-controlled, state-controlled and state-guaranteed, because there can't be any foreign trade business in the area of construction without a guarantee from the state. We need to be clear about that. The guarantee must always be a state that will give all the credit ratings to whoever it sends there, but the state has to stand behind it, without it going. The second law I want to talk about in a few sentences, given the times, I'm going to look back a little bit at what you've been writing, the reason for this law to be passed is to get rid of a number of requests for the purchase of apartments, that is, by changing the way you pay. There are numerous demands, that's a fact, but this law does not change the terms and manner of payment. You further point out that applicants would not suffer damages due to the inability to account for the purchase price of the apartment, which occurred because the Republic Statistics Office has since 1 January 2011 as an inflation measure, no longer publishes data on prices at small, but consumer prices, has ceased to publish profit data in the Republic's economy. I ask you - why this law did not come on 1 January 2011, as the Budget Act came in December 2010, the Budgetary System Act, the Duvana Act, the law that also had certain economic categories and financial categories that are defined by this law. In those laws, which, as far as I could count, are a total of nine, which have a specific legal category called – consumer prices, it is an old legal category that is now being replaced – by a consumer price index. In those nine laws, I counted some, and there are nine, I don't have time to count them now, you went in exchange. Instead of the price, you put the consumer price index on a small scale. This is the legislation provided for by the Act on the Classification of Activities and by the Regulation adopted on that basis. Why are you now putting only consumer prices in this law? If you put a consumer price index in nine laws, it is appropriate, normally, to standardise it in accordance with the legal provision. Why did you throw out the index? Why are you unequal? You have a chance to make this right, although we in the amendments went with a completely different, financial category in all nine laws we were looking for a whole other financial category. The consumer price index is a commercial category. It maintains a particular sphere in the area of trade, not in the area of finance. It's far more adequate what we've said, but as long as you're norming, you've had to standard as you've normed in the nine previous ones. It's obvious that every ministry works for itself. There is not one common body that will unite all this and create that policy that will fit the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about housing, the law is back in the '90s. He's a little out of line. When I say a little bit, it means that we need to modernise it, give it whole new conditions, the methods of reckoning, because there's interest and demand to buy apartments, to see what these economic categories are, what are financial categories in buying apartments. Is this the right time, whether 1992, 1993, 1995, 2000, 2011, 2012, is this the same basis, whether the financial category and the financial amount that was in 1991 corresponds to the amount from 2000, 2012 etc? You must do this here, not in this way, broken law with a total of three members – here, we will do it urgently now, by emergency procedure etc., and the emergency procedure was supposed to be already in January, i.e. that the ministry of the first, second, third working day had been expelled. In legal normation you had to apply, to facilitate our work, to reduce the costs of this assembly, today we will lose because of this law one day, and in particular we will talk about this, this is 10 laws that regulate the same matter. That is what you could regulate with one law and say – in all the laws in which it is mentioned, instead of the words and the word will be used. It's a common legal norm, no matter what you offer in practice. It's a bad situation in this area, too. Why is it bad? Because apartments are purchased by various arches, they are divided by various arches. I don't have time to tell you how many representatives of the commissions have shared in the state period, etc. Knowing about the war, Croatian personnel, Montenegrin personnel, Bosnian personnel, Slovenian personnel, bought huge numbers of apartments, reselling, trading, doing what they wanted. The same situation occurred after the development of the SRJ, the state community, etc. We can find out from the media, hundreds of apartments were assigned and bought at the last moment when they solved the disunity, one, the other, the third, etc. (President: 20 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64518	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, and with the order of MPs, submitted by the LDP parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group. The first to be reported on the list of speakers is the National MP Judita Popovic, followed by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64519	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are back here to discuss whether or not the construction industry needs help. I think we'll agree on that, that's the help we need. We will also agree that the major crisis has affected the construction industry and little has helped this construction industry in the course of last year, when it was passed that law that had the ambition to encourage the construction industry in the Republic of Serbia, and that little of that optimism, which was then presented by the ministry that proposed it, was indeed justified and little was realised which could be recorded as one serious result of the efforts made. We assume that there has been a lot of effort, given that we have been able to read what measures were planned to encourage this construction industry, as well as what measures were envisaged to encourage demand. I would remind you that we have reached almost that magic line of 45% of GDP in terms of duty, so it still needs a little bit, 0.2%, according to the latest statistics, to actually reach that 45%. That means there's no room for borrowing anymore. This means that public spending has been largely burdened by the overall budget, and that the government does not intend to change its public spending policy, nor does it have to do with debt, which is large and internally, and possibly even bigger to the outside. So in these conditions where the budget is simply not able to provide some significant support for both construction and demand in the construction sector, then the question arises how is it thought to help this branch of economy more seriously? I will agree that it is really necessary to extend the deadline of each type of projected assistance to construction. I will also agree that it is necessary to find money for new projects across Serbia, to find funds for housing subsidies, to reduce participation for commercial loans that are now very high and are 20%, so they have significantly reduced the possibility of taking loans from citizens. I will also agree that it is very necessary to encourage the construction of apartments at the place of Kasarna Stepa Stepanovic. However, there is no money from the budget, and we expect the budget, namely the draft budget law, to see exactly what this is about and whether the budget has at least some indication of its intention to be developmental, not just consumer, as it has shown in the previous period when the draft budget rebalancing law was made here. So the main disturbance, the main obstacle to aid construction, is in the money right now. Now I would quote to you what you as a ministry predicted as measures to promote demand. For example, you anticipated investing in Corridor 10 and other infrastructure projects: subsidising interest on loans to finance housing, direct subsidisation of interest rates on consumer loans, buying apartments on leases, which is cheaper, as some sort of alternative purchase of apartments on loan, new models for subsidising the purchase of apartments, an increase in the funds that the state spends on financing the apartment subsidisation programme. So these were the measures to encourage demand. I'll also quote your definition of the state of construction. You yourself have found that there is a major crisis in the construction industry in the world, and that there is an even greater crisis in the construction industry in Serbia. You have defined the government of the Republic of Serbia's response as you imagine that the crisis is coming out of it, given that it lost power during 2010 and had a very negative response to all the measures that were taken. You have foreseen that the construction industry should be established as a sector of special national importance in the context of a strategy to overcome the effects of the economic crisis, measures to encourage the demand for exit from the crisis, and measures to strengthen the capacity of the construction industry to increase the offer. It's actually just a declarative pawn and an empty story about this crisis where the construction industry is. You have foreseen measures to encourage exit from this crisis and to strengthen the capacity of the construction industry, as well as those demands, as we just said. But what you predicted in the end, you did not achieve, even though your goals were both ambitious. For example, you predicted overcoming the negative effects of the economic crisis. The reality denies you that you really did it. You have also foreseen the development and employment of domestic construction companies and the provision of liquidity for this sector. The results are negative. We don't see that the construction industry at least reduced the crisis it was in, but, moreover, that crisis is only deepening. You have foreseen encouraging development and employment of domestic enterprises, retaining the existing level of employment, with the possibility of creating new jobs, encouraging economic development in the Republic of Serbia. All this I'm just quoting were the objectives of that law when they were passed. However, it does not take much analysis to see what is actually happening in reality and what is happening in practice, i.e. on the ground, and how this construction industry is dealing with an existing crisis and huge losses. You have also foreseen projects whose realisation is financed and implemented in accordance with this law, the construction of schools, kindergartens, hospitals and other health institutions, apartments, highways, sports facilities, facilities for the purpose of performing activities in the field of culture and other facilities of public importance. So there doesn't even need any comment, these projects actually speak for themselves. When you look at what has been achieved, you can see that it can be measured by maybe passing. You have also anticipated to speed up certain procedures for the best bidder. It's all actually left on some level of good wishes. When you look at what happened from what you expected as the effects of this law on which we have had serious objections, which is the employment of domestic building facilities, the increase in investment in construction, the increase in the number of employees and the importance of the construction industry as an engine of economic growth and employment and in other sectors of the economy, then you can realize that all of this remains on paper as a list of good wishes, that the aid was insufficient, inadequate, that aid, but real help, was missing and that you relied on the budget to the greatest extent. To a budget that is otherwise overloaded, which excessively pushes public spending. In fact, you've predicted to be just one of those links to increasing public spending that actually destroys the economy of this country. In this law that was then passed and in this new law which in fact only extends the period of validity of the previously passed law as a kind of aid to the construction industry, we see only one work that may have the ultimate goal of doing nothing more serious in terms of reform, primarily of the construction industry, since these laws refer to the construction industry. So if there's no serious intention of doing something really serious here, then the results are the ones I've already talked about. But all in all, it is not the task of any ministry to declare itself on certain measures, to write all its ambitions, to speak of these ambitions, and to view these ambitions as the highlight of its achievements and investments in terms of economic development and economic progress. It takes a lot more to do and to invest, to feel the effects. But first of all, it should be put into its own effort and that much more creative approaches to the construction industry than the creativity this ministry has shown by simply showing the base of all of its actions, all of its future ambitions, have been found in a budget that can no longer fund it. That budget is so overloaded that it can't even finance the construction industry as one of the priority ones, as you yourself said, one of the engines of economic growth. If the construction industry is an engine of economic growth and is in such a state as it is, then what do you expect from all other branches of the economy in Serbia? I think we have to conclude here that we don't have any good perspectives and it's pretty much all really miserable when it's coming down.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64520	It's been used 13 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a National MP Milan Avramovic, followed by a National MP, Marija Bulgarčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64521	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, before I begin to expose myself to the agenda point – aid to the construction industry in this situation in which the country is, therefore, in the economic crisis, I ask the question of a minister who is not currently in the room: what is the time limit of this law, although the law says that it is a year, to whom will it apply if not only to the Government and what are the criminal provisions if this law does not apply? Since there is nothing in the law itself, how will the government be sanctioned if this law is not respected, and I will remind you that there is no law in the assembly procedure that was adopted and that for citizens, businesses, businesses and in general there are no criminal measures to fill the budget of the Serbian state. So, when it comes to citizens and when it comes to citizens, citizens, businesses, businesses and all that needs to be done to help citizens, they have criminal measures that are done in the form of forced collection, therefore, by financial claim. When it comes to government and when it does not implement what has been discussed in the Assembly and passed through a legal act, there are no criminal measures. That's why it's clear to all of us why the term of this law is like a one-year term of a can. I'd like the minister to give an additional explanation as to why, if he wants to help the domestic construction operation and the construction industry at all, this law doesn't apply for at least the next 10 years? Is the minister himself visible that the reason behind the global economic crisis is such that it will last only a year and not more, and does Serbia have any reason to assist the construction operation in such a way because of this crisis? Since the members of the proposed law, which we only adopt the deadline, is an extension of a year, a clear statement that the government itself is making a conclusion that the company will give the job, type and scope of the business, the way of financing and payment, although the minister himself said that this will not go at all from the Republic's budget, in Article 3 of the proposed law, in paragraph 2, it is said: "The realisation of these projects involves construction enterprises whose headquarters is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which has the appropriate experience and references and employs significant numbers of workers, i.e. according to their technological capacities, can employ a significant number of workers, and according to the criteria which will determine the specific act of the Government." So the government will be a body that will choose the criteria with a special act. I will remind you that the criteria are chosen in the city of Belgrade, when trams were purchased, when the bridge was built over Ade and any other building facility that went from the Serbian state budget, actually units of local self-government, which in this case comes the same. If the government gives consent based on the trust of local self-government, as stated by the minister in his presentation this morning, then we have an open path to corruption. I will remind you that such vehicles were supplied, specifically trams in Belgrade, in line with references that only corresponded to that manufacturer, to no one else. Then the monopoly was more than obvious, that such references could meet only the one for which the government wanted to meet and thus came to the desired goal – to get the product. In this case, I made a parallel, the government to get a construction facility, with the references she wanted. The confidence space of local self-government may exist in some other segments, but when it comes to capital projects for which consent is given by the ministry, it must be checked and this is more than clear. Also, the proposed law says that the way of funding for each individual project is for housing projects under Article 4(3) of this Law: "The government, on a proposal from the competent ministry, determines the lowest and highest price for building the facility". So, if it determines both the lowest and the highest, it has restricted some company to what it has to fit in with. I will remind you that this is also one space for abuse, because a large number of companies and contractors hired by the Government by their act have engaged subcontractors who met the conditions from the lowest to the highest price, and thus that entrepreneur or company that got the job took a percentage without any participation in the performance of the works. The law itself, which has been defined by the deadline of one year, in fact by the deadline of one can, is not binding on existing projects that exist, can be active, but for future projects that need to be created, and it seems to me that the minister has told me that there are more than 250, they are not binding. So my question is more than clear – why is there no penalty for respecting the law itself? First, if it refers to a construction operation called domestic production, we need to mention the privatisation process, and we need to say that domestic operations were privatized in the worst possible way, that companies were bought for the value of only one tenth of its assets, that the claims of such companies were higher than how sold themselves and that foreign persons through certain privatisation, through the names and citizens of Serbia, bought enterprises and thus achieved some profit - first, that the company would destroy the sale and the property, not earning the profits of the job itself. Or, if it happens to come to work, it's the only clear evidence for going out to the Russian market. Because we all know we don't have a duty-free zone, we only have it with the Russian Federation, and that was the first and most basic reason. I will remind you of Ratko Mitrovic, who reminds you of "The Trubnik", which reminds you of "Rad" and the infamous firm, construction firm Dragan Kopcalić, former chairman of the City Committee of the Democratic Party, vice president of the municipality of Zvezda and godfather of the city of Belgrade, Dragan Kopcalic, who with his company "Monter" destroyed the construction home operation, by having over 200 times been a blocked account, and by not being able to pay the commitments he has made for himself, because everything that exists in the company has sold out. In order for me to justify these examples, I'm going to name it later in the course of exposure. The question is then, if the government wanted to help the construction operation and the industry, how could it allow this kind of privatisation? If total, this seven-member law makes a system of selection and competition to throw out foreign performers, i.e. to animate domestic producers in the law itself say that participation must be domestic products up to 70%, so we ask the question, what about those companies that have employees, which produce building materials, which are also run as foreign businesses in Serbia's territory, can they participate in this 30% special government act with their construction material, or not? Who will decide and how it will look, with the public procurement process being chosen by gender performers, remains to be seen by the end of 2012, until the law is in force. Unless we have a situation to further extend this law, from year to year, since none of you, nor can the minister judge how long the economic crisis will last. What is also important is an excuse used by the government for its projects. Since it helps itself, not a construction operation, because it chooses who does what, where and how it will be paid, it is an economic crisis. I remind you that the excuse for the economic crisis of the 1990s, the dark forces of the 1990s, is actually the coalition partner of the Democratic Party, or the opposition in the Republic Parliament at all, used for several laws, which are subsequently being revised. These laws not only cannot be applied in the Republic of Serbia in our overall system and life, as well as this, because all 250 projects cannot be completed within a year, although this is the will and desire for a pre-election campaign, is proof that this law is absolutely pointless. What we from the Serbian Radical Party would recommend to the ministry is other kinds of assistance the ministry can take to help the construction operation and industry in Serbia. It is to abolish the first recommendation brought by the finance ministry to banks, not to issue larger loans for construction. Which is an absolute crime, which can't just be hidden, because no bank has given credit for some kind of construction to a private entrepreneur, or even domestically, with a fat stock that's twice the value of the real estate that's being built. Which means, the bank has made such conditions that no one can meet, and whoever can meet it is about a big investor or a big player. It's a monopoly, so to speak, a big fish eats small. It also makes it impossible for small builders to develop their jobs. To cancel the interest, to write off the debt on the company, to VAT, to reduce, cut or split the debt on the property tax, and to allow all of this to be made possible in payment in the wars or participation of the state in the division of the tax, in order to help those companies that are already in business, in fact in the register of a commercial court for two years in the status of the companies in charge waiting for their blockade. So if you go into that site, you'll see that over 600 companies live two years and more in a blockade and that it's impossible to work just because of the taxes it has towards the state. So, not according to construction workers, not to those who bought an apartment or any other construction facility in advance, but to the state. It is a simple parallel and a simple proposal because the IMF itself write off some debts to the state, gives them those obligations it has made to itself, that it can, in accordance with that, direct the state towards construction operations and industry. Why is the monopoly more obvious? I'm going to ask an open question to the Minister himself, what are the number of solutions to the execution, actually the application of works or building permits issued in the city of Belgrade from the date of the last three years from the end date of the University to the day of today? How many solutions or building permits have been issued since the campaign started with social housing in Belgrade? Why can't this monopoly and the trust of local self-government come back? Here's your best example. When Mr. Miskovic built the place "Bellville", no investor can fulfil his rights in a catastra. No investor in the City Secretariat can fulfil his rights in time and there are always new conditions and conditions to be invented, until the flats at Belville are sold. The cream on the cake is social housing made by the state and the city. If you have something against expensive apartments, that doesn't mean it affects the sale of cheap apartments. Which is why investors are making it impossible to do their job through administrative procedure, so that the monopoly is being made, that the one who made it in time and who has the position to do it, until the other can't start working. It is clear to you that trust between local self-government and the ministry should not exist and the best example for you is the city of Belgrade. How many of these solutions have been issued, I hope that we will get that answer in writing so that we can use it for another debate, and especially what this law will come on the agenda next year, because we will extend the deadline until 2013. What else is needed to help the construction industry? Removal of VAT for all services which form part of the production preparation in construction. Like the total production of investment technical documentation, from urbanism to design and design of all possible elaborates. By abolishing the payment of taxis and invoices for the issue of conditions, issuing conditions and consent, given that public-community enterprises which have already earned profits on the construction or formation of new squares through participation and accession. So, you can't get any permission until you've made a commitment to the Property Directorate or the City Building Directorate for Land Planning, which is both expensive and enormously large. It's basically a government racket because you're making whatever you're making, that the state has some use for that, too. The law allowed local self-government to raise this at a certain level, 60% at year level, and that made it impossible for the construction industry to do anything. A reduction of the procedures for issuing a building solution, from the catastra through all the secretariats that we have proven to be the litter of corruption, which can be concluded simply by the number of solutions I have mentioned, because for each memo to the Secretariat you have to apply, every paper you have to pay, the VAT on any activity you have to settle, and the final solution may not come. The costs are prejudged in advance. What also hampers this law is the situation that the government is making a selection, that it has closed a form of help to itself and that those who cannot pass that selection remain in the status quo, in fact, in the status in which they are. This is evidence whenever the Ministry and this government want to help, to give birth to doubt, and that doubt has been discovered in some way because it's not a full year's duration. It is therefore necessary to extend the term of the duration and therefore more detailed into what conditions are in order to get a job in the state of Serbia, and best speak the terms of the construction firm "Monter" that could not get a job, and it has also received proof that there is no trust in the commission or in a special conclusion or in the Ministry itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64522	The word has a folk letter, Maria Bulgarcic. The remaining time is two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64523	Honorable Vice President, distinguished members of the government, I'm really sorry the minister doesn't want us to be able to discuss this in a good way. We were witnesses when the ministers from your government said that the crisis would bypass us, and then that the crisis was our only chance, and then in September of last year they said the crisis was over. We of the LDP have spoken and are now saying that it is a crisis and that it has taken a turn in our society and in our country and that these laws that have been proposed today are not a solution and are not any anti-crisis measures for the situation in which this country is located. In fact, Mr. Dulic said that five million people remained in the world from the construction industry without a job. I would ask him if he has any precise information on how many people in Serbia are left with no job from the construction industry. Also, we have indicators from 2005 that tell us that 3,861 companies were then operating from the construction industry and working 85,120 workers in the construction industry. In 2010, we have a 74,000 reduction, and in 2011, we have 73,000 workers working in the construction industry, which says that every year the number of workers working in the construction industry decreases rapidly. It is, Mr. Minister, and what a great indicator and a sign that the crisis has not bypassed us but that it has struck us in a way. This law has brought absolutely no positive effects. At the beginning of his presentation, the minister said the construction industry was saved. I'd ask him how she was saved when we have a drastically smaller number of workers every year.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64524	That's where I'd like to thank you, since the time is up. The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I would have a question about amending the House Law. Namely, this is the alignment of this law with the existing laws. It means changing the indicators, changing the index, so I'm asking the government of the Republic of Serbia why has it taken a full year to align the laws and to change these indicators? All these indicators were foreseen in December 2010. It took the government a full year to apply these indicators to this law, to bring this law into line with the already existing ones, and to write down the entire three members in a year. The government has shown here a great indemnity, a great irresponsibility towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia, towards people who primarily buy apartments. Here in this law, instead of "gross earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia" puts the term "earnings in the Republic", instead of "price in little", prices will no longer apply, but is "the consumer price index". Then, instead of "net earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia", it will now be "tax-free earnings and contributions to the Republic". However you turn, when it comes to profits, whether gross or net, they fall from month to month. When it comes to inflation, whether it's measured by consumer prices or prices to a little bit, it's always on the rise. The Kaadas are gross earnings, these are data from the Republic Statistics Office, in June and July they were 54,000 dinars, in August and September about 53,000, and in October about 52,000 dinars. In October, gross earnings were lower by 1.7% compared to the month of September. In terms of tax-free earnings and contributions, they were 39,000 in June and July, in August and September on average 38,500, and in October 38,167 dinars. When it comes to inflation, however it looks, whatever index you use, it's on the rise. Now, instead of the price index, you're going to introduce the consumer price index for a little bit. A harmonised EU price index methodology is used to calculate these indicators. We first appeared in early 2007, with only one goal and one single reason, which is to try to show inflation as little as possible, not to show it as it is, and the difference is primarily in the scope of the products whose prices are being followed, as well as in the way their weights are calculated. Prices for a little, say, are also followed by the price of construction materials and repromation for agriculture, which is not followed at all by consumer prices. Then, in the consumer price index, there is a significantly lower share of regulated products prices and is only 35%. What kind of products are these? These are products that are regulated and controlled by the state of the Republic of Serbia. These are oil derivatives, electricity, traffic services, municipal services and these prices are constantly rising, and the country has repeatedly introduced that they are applied in consumer prices significantly less than in the price index at a small price. She's trying to show inflation much smaller than she really is. Here's how it was in the first trimester of 2007 when it comes to inflation, when it's viewed in one way, when you look at it the other way. When it comes to consumer prices, only 0.7% of growth has been achieved, and when it is seen by the retail index, inflation was 1.2%. This is precisely due to less participation in regulated prices, prices regulated and controlled by the state of the Republic of Serbia. However you turn, inflation is present. Here is what this consumer price index shows today, which is the basic measure of inflation. In August it was 100, in September 100.2, in October 100.4, in November 100.9. However you measure, whatever index you use, inflation in Serbia is on a constant rise. When you state the reasons for adopting this law, you put that, in accordance with Article 10. The Labour Classification and Classification Act established by the Labour Classification Act and the Units Register of Classification was applied until the end of 2010, and for these reasons the Republic Statistics Institute has been unable to publish data on average income in the economy and has ceased to publish prices at a small price index. I ask the question, you yourself have stated that this has been applied by the end of 2010. My people, why it took you a year to change these indices under this law. You further state – the reason for the adoption of this law is that many requirements for the purchase of apartments are resolved, i.e. the change in the way they are paid. So, how did the 2011 ransom payment work out for these apartments? It says that applicants would not suffer any damage. I ask the question – whether they have suffered damages so far and whether, throughout this year, tenants have suffered damages, as you state here, and all of this is due to the inability to account for the purchase price of the apartment, which has been achieved since 1 January of this year as an inflation measure, because of the fact that the Republic Statistics Institute is no longer publishing data on prices at little, but data on consumer prices, etc. You also listed - to continue the purchase of apartments etc. This is where you put it - if you continue to buy apartments. Does this mean that the purchase of apartments completely stopped in 2011, so you can interpret what you wrote. Furthermore, in the reasons for the adoption of an emergency procedure, you state that the adoption of this law is proposed by emergency procedure in order to address numerous requirements for the purchase of dwellings, i.e. the change in the way they are paid. Did your demands last for a year? How did they redeem themselves? The government here has shown one great indemnity, one great incompetence, she was too casual, too uninterested. She completely unnecessarily caused and caused a problem when it comes to buying apartments. As far as the construction industry is concerned, I would also ask one question -- what happened to those money and that loan that the government of the Republic of Serbia took to build settlements or apartments in the area of the former barracks "Stepa Stepanovic". The government took one loan and said they would make and build apartments and later sell apartments to the rest. But in October of this year, it happened that the government was taking another loan. I ask the question – for what? The government never gave an explanation - what happened to that first loan money? Was the money spent on building apartments, did she collect the apartment building herself, so they didn't have enough money, did the money get stolen, did they disappear, what happened? The government doesn't give any explanation or maybe it's the cause of taking that second loan because it's not going well selling apartments. I have to remind you that the government has made several announcements, made public that there are over 10,000 interested apartment buyers, and everything is for sale of about 5,000 apartments. What's with the customers now? Is it a location that seems not attractive, is it a price, which may not be quite the most favourable, or commercial, as the government likes to say, from 1,250 to 1,290 euros per square metre? I must remind you that for this same sum, or even cheaper, you can buy apartments on Dušanovac, Leka's hill, Brothers Jerkovic, Medaković II, Medaković III and you already have a fully built infrastructure. You also have school, you have kindergarten, all needs. Why would someone go to this new village and wait for when his apartment will be built, when the infrastructure will be built, when his kindergarten will be built, when basic school will be built, etc? Also, I watched your 3D video animation, as well as what you want to attract customers, so you put apartments in the area of that former barracks own a pvc carpentry. So, what apartment building doesn't have a "pvc" carpentry today? What housing unit doesn't have that? So, imagine, you're suggesting that the apartments will have a telephone connection and the Internet. Imagine, the 21st century apartment has a telephone connection and the Internet. Do you think it'll attract customers to go and buy an apartment there? Those last lamelas rely on the village of Kumodraz II. Well, that's 10 kilometers from downtown. How and how do you think it's an attractive location? However, the government does not answer these questions. So, what about that loan that was already taken? What's he spent on? Is the sale of apartments going as they predicted? Why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia take second credit for the same thing? For the second time, they take credit for building apartments. Also, another disadvantage, which can be said to have slowed down the purchase of apartments, is that the NBS has introduced 20% of the stake in the purchase of apartments, but there is still one question – why is there no agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS? Isn't it in the interest of both of us to give citizens a more favourable way of buying apartments? I asked a few questions. Unfortunately, the minister is not here to answer when it comes to building these apartments. When it comes to this other law, about amending the House Act, I'm going to set up another one and say that I almost didn't see such inconclusiveness in making such a law. I remind you once again, this law is in line with other laws. It's just a change of indicators, a change of index. This whole bill has only three members. These indices, these indicators, have been applied since 2007, but all have been applied since December of last year. It's just amazing that it takes the government of the Republic of Serbia a year to bring those indices together, a year to write down all three members, to allow citizens to continue buying these apartments. It is amazing that such indemnity and irresponsibility show this government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64526	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Lakcevic and Mr. Djelic, I don't know if you are anything to God, but I trust you a little more than he does. I have an idea I want to pass on to you, and you have a minister. I believe you, no matter what you are, Djelic. Since he has praised this law incentivising the construction industry this way, when you see it, tell it to sell in the EU. She'll get the money, it'll be a good thing and she won't be in vain. Secondly, Mrs. Lakicevic, when our authorised representative, Mr. Buha, said this could be resolved by one law, he is longtime Prime Minister of Republika Srpska in persecution. He is well-versed in both legal and economic terms, but there is a Secretariat for legislation in the government and if you communicate there and if you are one government, then that secretariat could look at legal regulations and wherever this is concerned with proposing. It is clear to us that the law on amendments and additions to the House Act cannot make these terms change in other laws, but they can change in all others, and that could have been one debate and that we could finish this job. For us, because of the citizens of Serbia, and for us personally, time is precious. The minister himself said that the most important factor is time, not even the money itself, what time it is. Maybe there are more priority jobs, maybe he's the one I told the idea, maybe she's already out of date, maybe he's already gone, maybe he's got a contract to sell this legal project to the EU. Let's get back to this law on changes and additions to the House Bill. I don't see that there is anything special to comment on, because my colleague Bojan Mladenovic said it well. A petty man, three members of the law have and he thought he could do it in less than a year. It can't, it's some optimal rock year for about three members. This government couldn't have been expected otherwise. Now I wouldn't comment on what he said in such a good way, but I just have to say that it would be good, as the minister spent a lot of time explaining this other law on encouraging the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia, it would be good to know, because we know cases from practices that have problems, that we know how many more apartments are not bought, how interested it is to do so. There's one problem, or there's a nearer election, so anything that can be sold, sold, it wouldn't surprise me if members of the government now along the highways, the highways, started selling fruit and vegetables, just to get some money for the election campaign. Such is fate, such is the life of the Serbian citizens, and there are likely to be higher education and those who might be more effective in other jobs. But since this government can't secure a job, they have to deal with it. There are, above all, I mean in Banat, but in all of Vojvodina and there are plenty of those apartments in Serbia that were once considered to be in social property, state property, so they were given to use health institutions, pharmacies, railways and could not enter the ransom process. It's now considered to be anyone's. Apothecary facilities, railways say they're not the owners. Carriers or users of these apartments even referred to the court for the purchase of these apartments. They failed to do so because it was the answer that these apartments did not, that the right to dispose did not have those facilities that they had given for use. What happens next? On the one hand, these people can't solve their housing issues, and on the other hand, these apartments are falling apart. Uncertainty, whether they could count on a further stay in those apartments, forced people to build, to sort out their housing issues in some way, and maybe they're in the same place where these apartments decided that some way, adequate or not, that's not so important right now, and these apartments stay in some places, no one uses them, and they fail. Could one responsible government or sector of the Department of Civil Engineering have acted on something that was in no way him, even this government created, but was created by someone before them. I think you should have some serious fun with this problem, on the note, and I think you'll end it and maybe you'll give some information when we discuss these laws in particular. When it comes to this law on the promotion of the construction industry, it's just a mastery. This may not have been the way to be disappointed at all, but it should have been said – while this government is current, perhaps that the law applies then, and after that these things will probably be dealt with in a different way, not at all like this. The minister said this government inherited a lot of debts. Right, she inherited about eight billion euros, but the government in three and a half years was in debt with a new six and a half billion euros and of which two billion went public procurement, and I would say in an unknown direction. Of course, the citizens and I recognize both the direction and the direction they are in. The minister said that this law, which is an anti-crisis law, could also serve as a good system law, could help solve some other problems. He even said he could use it in public procurement. We have a big problem with public procurement and our legislation, of 29 countries, and there are EU countries and some Asian countries, and countries in this part where we are, we are in 15 places when it comes to public procurement regulations. When it comes to the application of these regulations, of the 25 countries that have been monitored, we are in 22 places. This is no longer a problem for non-quality legal regulations that regulate public procurement, but for the application itself. I can't be maligned and say there weren't any good ideas in this law. The fact is that as contractors, works will be hired, and in terms of encouraging the construction industry, those who, among other things, employ a significant number of workers. Mr. Minister, for those who employ 10, the one who employs 10, and the other has 100 workers, for the one of 10 is a significant 100, and the one who has 1,000 is a significant 100, but this is not some objective criterion based on which trust can be given and who will be the contractor of the work. Speaking of this, where the works at Stepa Stepanović's location are done, there are about six performers here, and I don't want to know, because I don't do it. In that sense, about six contractors and a much larger, incomparably larger number of subcontractors were engaged. It's not like you said, that there are no late payments, or when any situation arises, or any other document based on which it can be determined as long as it has been done, that it is paid. It's not like that at all, the situation is completely different. One more thing, you said 250 projects went into realisation, and 250 projects were approved. At the beginning, 197, or perhaps even more from the beginning, 53 projects have not yet been opened. It's 20% of all approved projects, and it's not small, it's worrying about what you said, what our situation is. The question arises: have you, Mr. Minister, tried anything and given any support to the construction industry, in terms of opening new jobs abroad? You and I, as well as Serbian citizens, and especially our builders know that they were once the best in the world, when it comes to quality, deadlines and everything that could be measured and objectively proven. The Serbian construction industry was among the first in the world. Now there is not enough will, and perhaps even the opportunity to do so and solve this problem. Cheap apartments or apartments for which customers can expect subsidies appear to be allocated only to Belgrade. Belgrade is a beautiful city, Belgrade is the capital of our country, but also in other cities living citizens of Serbia, and it might be a good opportunity for employment and construction operations, but also for the staying and survival of our citizens in the places where they have, as much as a resolved housing issue or perhaps the possibility of processing their country, or in some other way to be able to support themselves at a time when it is uncertain for employment. But you didn't define yourself. What you said all over Serbia is these projects, they are probably in those municipalities and local self-governments where the presidents of the DS municipalities are. It is high time you showed one seriousness and solved the problems of all Serbian citizens, not just individuals. How things still stand when it comes to, and you said, Mr. Minister, that there is no serious launch of the construction industry until the private sector starts to invest. In the municipality of Zemun is currently building eight to ten buildings, where people from the private sector appear as performers. They have huge problems. When they pay for the city's construction land, they have to bring in and take care of the street, they have to do whatever else they want to do, and if they haven't paid for the construction of the city's building land, to finance it. The question arises – what did they pay for? Is the racket to the state or perhaps even to any individual whose system it has provided, or to the municipality of Zemun, if it is Zemun, or if it is the city of Belgrade, then probably the state itself? Is it time to end it and the ministry shows one responsibility? What you're trying to bring to the green branch, as you say, and you can't prevent corruption in that sector, it won't be worth much to you. All of this will remain only on trial, and Serbian citizens, including a construction operation that employs a large number, will still have problems. By listening to you, you are one of the first or rare ministers in this government who is already announcing the end of the crisis, because you said that the collapse in construction has stopped and that a slight recovery has begun. One construction worker pulls four more in an indirect way or a direct one. These are beautiful and bright days for the citizens of Serbia, but that will not be, as long as this government exists. Yesterday, we discussed the Law on the Single Election List, and that is a good way to remove this government in the elections, that is, to lead to a completely different situation and to declare our will and to support those who will not deceive the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64528	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64529	As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the House Act, there are not many amendments to which it could be indicated whether they are in accordance with the Constitution or in accordance with the law and other regulations, or not. What's visible here is that the prices for the purchase of apartments and the part relating to renting of the apartment and the ratio of the tenant and the tenant, its duration, the termination of the contract, when the right is lost, etc. However, when it comes to the area, it is also closely related to the House Building Maintenance Act. The law on maintenance of residential buildings is contrary to the provisions of Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees rights, pay attention, please, to the property and ensure that it can only be seized under the law with the payment of the market price for the seized property. What's the problem here? This law of use, which is only one segment of ownership rights, identifies with the right of ownership, so it empowers the building's assembly to make a majority number of votes available with the ownership of joint parts of the building and those of the tenants who do not agree with the availability of those parts in favour of investors and who practically remain without ownership of the common parts of the building, which is all unconstitutional and not only unconstitutional, but is contrary to the Law on the basis of the legal relations of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitution of Serbia. Serbia's constitutional court has made one decision that this provision has put out of force, as majority owners cannot jeopardise minority owners' rights. That means, if in the tenants' building assembly, they make a decision of 51, votes for a decision, 49% is left unprotected and without their rights. What is the function of this law? This law is in the works of the construction mob. What's the matter? Are we going back to that period in 1945, when the owners of the apartments and buildings were robbed and robbed of their property? We're going back to that period, which is not in agreement with the Constitution and the law. In any case, this law, which is proposed, which is the housing law, is the only thing that can be said to be in accordance with the Constitution, which is Article 3, this is a rare case for the legislator to propose that this law enters into force on the eighth day since its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. Usually, the promoters suggest that the law enter the next day. What's about this law is, I asked one parliamentary question and I got an answer today. It is that I asked how many residential buildings, or housing agencies in the Republic of Serbia, how many employees, how many lawyers, who represent them, and on what basis and how many apartments have they built, and in what year? And now imagine, Mr. Chairman, says – the city housing agency Kragujevac hired a lawyer with a passed judicial exam representing the court and other state bodies. For the purpose of representing the court, Kragujevac hired a lawyer only in 2009, and the cost of representation was 16,000 dinars. You have gentlemen of the agency who has lawyers, such as the Panchev case, who has an employee lawyer, a graduate lawyer, who hires lawyers, who are privileged, and these lawyers get paid a monthly of 75,000 dinars. Secondly, you now have in Belgrade, representing the Agency's public defender, which is quite logical. If the housing agency is a public enterprise, the founder is a city or municipality, it is represented by a public defender. In many other cases, in other municipalities and cities it's different, it's colorful. And now you have, therefore, lawyers somewhere, lawyers paying 16 or 25 grand, about 75. Does this affect the price of utility services and the maintenance of residential buildings? Of course it affects and that this is the color of the agencies, it can't be any bigger. But what is it? It is a matter of hiring our relatives, friends and godfathers or members by the feudal system from which party who should be director of the Directorate, who should be the deputy, who is the assistant, who are the advisers and who should be the perpetrators, and how much should they get representation and how many salaries, and on the other hand, how much should be compensated by those who apply, how much compensation should they pay? As for the law on the promotion of the construction industry, the world's economic crisis has fallen most strongly on construction and construction materials, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has reacted sharply to the problems created from this. With an adequate failure to react, this branch has been going through the most difficult period since its existence. What is it that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through its regulations and congregation decisions, should do? A reprogramme of government obligations, public enterprises and business banks for three to five years to free the companies of the blockade on these grounds. Enabling economic operators to use interest loans at European countries level 0.5% to 0.2%, Euribor for a longer period, instead of the current loan whose interest is between 10% and 15% that citizens are due to pay, and for government interest commitments are between 20% and 30%. The reprogramme and loans must also be granted to those undertakings that are in the blockade, which have sound resuscitation programmes. Under the current law, loans cannot be granted to blocking companies. Currently, more than 60,000 legal entities are in a blockade and they do not have the right to obtain credit. Translated live, that means that health centers should only go healthy, the sick have nothing to look for. The amendment of the bankruptcy law, bankruptcy is carried out on companies designated at the time of the blockade. Practically, it means that conditions have been created to launch bankruptcy between 20,000 and 30,000 companies, leaving workers without a job and hiring more than 20 to 30 cases of bankruptcy managers, which means shutting down the economy and hiring the administration, and bankruptcy managers to be rich as usual. The rate of tax 18% is proposed to reduce the rate to 8.4%, and VAT was abolished in the construction of schools, kindergartens and objects of general interest. Using domestic material in the function of energy efficiency of buildings, building buildings, etc., so as not to take up time for colleagues to talk about it, I would just like, gentlemen from the ministry, to remind you that no case has been recorded in Serbia, as is the case in Panchev. Namely, the military building of citizens is in the 1960s and has been given a certain area for building use, building land, building maintenance land and built on a datera park. Now the profiteers, the urban mob, are now operating a permit to build in the middle of the park in front of the Georgia Dimitrova building two to four, and now they want to build this private who's from India, but I'm surprised how he gets from India to Panchevo, he gets a location. The former location was the use and ownership of the company constructor, and now the conversion has passed into private hands and in the middle of the park, in front of building 2A, 2B, 2-4 and 2C, in the middle of the park that powerful and mob group, whether it is the real owner of India, we will see, but the citizens are crying and praying to be protected by the competent ministry, because the town of Panchevo here must have responsibility if it issues a building permit and that the citizens cannot approach their home, because in this way they will be built up, they will not be able to have apartments, to use apartments, they have no place to approach the car, because this builder should build two residential buildings in the middle of the park. It's your construction mafia. Second, the building. You remember what happened to the building. Crime to crime. Therefore, the vote for the housing and building laws provided for the possibility that mobsters could buy roofs and build floors on them, thus jeopardising citizens, those who live on the lower floors. I would mention one businessman who complains and talks about the great injustice and that there is no order and that the economy of churches, which is the brick "Igma", is more so in Vojvodina, now many of them are closing bricks because they do not have to pay, and that is, it is the brick "Igma" and Mr. Ljubodrag Knezevic, who is the director and who addresses all the state authorities, to save a large number of workers, to stay working, not to lose their jobs. However, as you can see, the government is taking little care of the economic resources and small businesses as they should remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64530	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. You have 15 minutes and 10 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64531	When it's 15 minutes and nine seconds, warn me to buy you one second to burn in Brussels. Let's start with these European laws. I get the impression that you are not informed that the EU has nothing. You're still stuck with these European laws. When we look at the declaration of conformity we see a stutter, this has nothing to agree with in the EU. So now you're cheating on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you're saying you're passing pro-European law, and on the last page we see, you didn't even translate it into your native language, English. Let's get this straight, we have this epochal law from last year that was meant to save the construction industry. How did you save her? The state still owes for construction facilities. So those who worked for the state were building something, the state didn't pay them. Now, if the state hasn't paid, how can we believe when you pass a law or when you suggest something? I don't believe you, you know it yourself, and you don't believe it either. Not even 80% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia trust you. Let's move on. You're saying the construction operation isn't working. I don't know where you live. Go to Rakovica, anything that could have been from the wall, walled, anything that could have been destroyed, destroyed and made new. Who's in charge of this organized group? Bojan Milic, cousin of this Radojka. But if you don't understand something, ask Boris Tadic, and he knows it there. You can ask Hansel Dacic, and his father-in-law is the vice president of the municipality there. That's where the building's booming, people. Two, imagine, two asphalt bases in Rakovica. What municipality has two asphalt bases? And the quarrys and the things that are done there. And you come to the congregation, and you say, 'We must change the law because of those carpenters from Black grass.' So, what did you do? It's a card mix-up. Euro chance. A new euro chance. We have ads where Miskovic can't sell "Bellville." Right? So there are extra apartments. You can't sell a man. A little bit, when you take a walk in Belgrade, you see -- "sale," and it says "for rent". When these Kragujevac guys come, they know it's for sale. Well, it's a joke, it's not a kim. You wanted it to go for sale, but... You don't climb because you don't have a mountaineering license, and stay calm. I'll take the scalper, I'll take you off. He's pro-European. You know, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we from the EU got rain, snow, city, bombs and a parade of pride. Well, identify yourself. What do I do? Why is it an interesting construction operation? Because it's a beautiful theft, it can also be legalized. Does anyone remember that Montero firm? (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: The Yellow One? Well, they're all yellow. And those trams that crash in Belgrade for "Montera". Who was the owner? And whose wife do you work for "Monter"? There's something going on about some "Intercop" from Capca. Some say Dusko Petrovic has something to do with it. I don't know. You probably don't know either. Then we had this young socialist, Radenkovic, running away from the Railways, and now he's the director of the "Spain of Higher Construction". Opal! He learns construction, too. Who goes to that big firm in New Belgrade? The one that was in Jugorosgas, a rabbit called Rabbit. Wait, who are we helping here in the construction industry? The Tesars and the Black Grass Dwarfs? No, you guys, you've done as much for who, and the state to stand behind the projects because it's necessary. What are you all up to here, my people, in this explanation? I can't read this to waste my time. And your Tadic promised the people's office, so we got the folk's cuisine. (President: You're obsessed with individuals, it wouldn't be bad to go back to the agenda. ) These individuals, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, do not cut for the wormy plum, believe me. Here, honestly, I've opened up, I'm telling you. I can't do it like that. See, those who go to Brussels, when they say, to their feet, do you know how much I can appreciate them? I can't appreciate them. I'm not obsessed with them. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, when the neighbouring cow moves to your yard and does damage, you do not sue the cow but the boss. I'm not giving any meaning to strays, I'm giving it to the boss. The boss is in Brussels, Angela Merkel. She's our political opponent. These bats here who think they can do something about petty fraud, can't go through with it anymore, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. (President: You didn't understand me, I'm trying to focus you on the subject. I don't think so. Well, you haven't read the bill. Well, this is pro-European law, the number "2011" is changed by the number "2012", according to European standards. How can you not understand? Well, you haven't read the bill? Then let me explain. He says this - the proposed law will have the following positive effects, be careful - overcoming the negative effects of the global economic crisis. Come on, people, please, this is the Assembly, it's not a humorous show. What negative effects of the global economic crisis? There's a mental crisis here with this power. Who's in power? The ones who voted from Bodrum. From Bodrum, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, those who kicked you out of the hospital in 2000. They say -- the global economic crisis shakes Serbia. Serbia is shaken by hepatitis "d", the rule of the Democratic Party's jaundice. I'm telling you, one thing's said, the other's done. We're opening a folk office, and we're getting folk kitchens. In Serbia, once Black Grass was a symbol for a statistical hole, all black, black. Boris Tadic thought of making a seal. Now he's out all over Serbia and now Black Grass is in every place. Black grass is in Belgrade and in Subotica. Now Dulic comes along and tells me that something epochal will be resolved. What are they going to do epochally, apart from sharing money with each other? Why don't you stop that Djelic guy? And he was talking about the global economic crisis. Came in with two bags to my aunt's. What's up? He resigned, so he's going. No, we need a law on the construction of a prison, a re-training facility. That's what we need. We need to clear up whose parents are calling for ministers or state secretaries, and they're in construction. So did homen and Oliver's father. The state interest, in an hour you have 126, declare the state interest, the dots are not valid, and as far as the Kosovo and Metohija Committee is concerned, you are not interested. Seven or eight times delay the session, those two dilbers can't come, I can't. What have you written here, my people? It says – solving the current debt of construction enterprises. Why don't you pay the construction companies what you owe them? Why don't you pay off what the builders did? No, consciously, deliberately. Why? To establish a new monopoly. Who's going to be the head of those new monopolies? Those who demonstrate great coalition capacity. Huge coalition capacity. Where's the money? Take everything life gives you, today you're a flower, tomorrow you've brought in a rose. Now the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should be thrilled because various types appear on TV and only change helmets from one construction site to another. Tadic began to promise people employment. Keep your work books, there'll be layoffs. It's the same matrix as when Mladjan came to say – free shares – 1000 euros. Three or four months ago, he says, "Aman, people, I had to lie to you to get Bockey elected president in the second round." So, what's the difference between that law and this law and all your laws? It's a scam. But someone's getting fat on that scam. That's where the national reconciliation was made. An agreement has been signed. What does Boris Tadic say in this agreement? Sorry, Dacic, for delivering Milosevic. What's he like about Dacic heroically? If, Boki, you could've done the job sooner. It's about money. European integration is important. It's about the bambini prize. It's about medals. World Number One -- finance minister "bambino". As a matter of fact, the European Union is touching you when you get to your knees. Way to go, doggie. You did good. Go on, keep destroying Serbia. Well, it won't be like that anymore, he'll have to turn it around. They saw what it was about. So we have a bill that changes in 2011 in order to continue the robbery. Why continue the robbery? It's been robbed a little bit so far. There's still room. What Dusan Petrovic said a week ago – we care about the status. Why-- to approach the funds, to grab. Who's gonna be okay? To him, to God, to Oliver Dulic, to pro-European parties, and to change our helmets: yellow, red, we'll go around construction sites, we'll worry, we'll suffer, while the camera is involved to make the citizens understand what it's all about. Why should he understand what this is about? The people's saying in Serbia has also changed. Since you've ruined the army, there's no longer that "secret army", but there's still those "fairy politicians", some who go, visit construction sites, epochally, bridges open, people don't have bread. What happened to the National Court of Appeals? You don't mention her for three years at all. What about social justice? Blood fighter for social justice, she's your Bajatovic with 1,350,000 a month. Break it down, you poor thing, to keep all mouths full. How long do you think that scam's gonna go? He won't do it anymore. Serbia is aware that "it is also in its beaks", Serbia has no alternative, the EU is not on the Serbian people's agenda. After 11 years of fraud, masks have fallen, pro-European parties, you're going into oblivion, and we're going to have to make prisons to re-examination, if there's time to reinvent, even though there are hopeless cases, we have to notice that. When it comes to hopeless cases, then the Bible says, "The motto has come out of heaven." Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have one minute and a few seconds left, hurry up, get dressed, take Nikola and head to the EU, you belong there.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64532	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, and no one, who has not used the right of Article 96. The Rules of Procedure do not take the floor, I conclude a joint principled search on the draft law amending the House Act and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis. Dear People's MPs, we'll take a break from 13.00 to 14.00. It is a time in which a cocktail will be organised in our central hall for the 10th anniversary of the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I invite you to take part, on behalf of the organizer, therefore, in the office, and I look forward to having us at that cocktail together. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64533	Dear MPs, we begin our afternoon work. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, on a joint principled search on the proposals for the laws of 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda, besides the representatives of the promoter, Mr Verica Kalanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Nebojsa Ćirić, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, called for meetings of both Goran Radosavljević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dejan Hadzic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Zvonko Obradovic, Director of the Agency for Business Registers and Mr Miladin Maglov, registrator at the Agency for Business Registers. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on proposals for the agenda for items 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours and is distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, belong one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; to the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; to the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of Members of Parliament, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Zoran Kasalovic, MP group SPS - JS; National MP Milorad Buha, SRS MP and MP Mladen Grujic, MP of the NS. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the Agency for Industrial Registrars, a proposal for a law on the procedure for registration in the Agency for Industrial Registrars, a proposal for an amending and supplementing the laws on business societies, a proposal for an amending law on amendments and amendments to the laws on the adoption of accionary societies and a proposal for an amendment to the law on security. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Committee on Finance – National MP Branko Ljiljak, Vice-President of the Committee? (No) Legislative Committee – National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, Chairman of the Committee? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? As soon as the promoter arrives, I will ask her, and now the cabinet session is in progress, and the minister will come out, or vice president, and she will join us here. A representative of the motionor will be given a word as soon as he arrives. A representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Milorad Buha, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64534	Mr. Chairman, I think it would be appropriate for the Deputy Prime Minister to present the basic concept for these points of the agenda, as it is several system laws, to be very important, which in practice change certain areas and define them in a completely different way. It would be appropriate to first obtain an introductory explanation, so that we can give an adequate court and propose certain things from the aspect of each political party that will take part in this debate. We're not gonna lose anything if we wait 15 or 20 minutes, and we're gonna get a lot, because we're gonna get an opening statement from the government's representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64535	A session of two governments -- the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska -- is under way, which should be completed at any moment. You've received timely drafts of the law. With the bill's proposals, you certainly have some pretty clear reasons why laws are proposed and why changes and additions are proposed. Therefore, it is no bother for us to work, because authorised representatives and presidents of parliamentary groups have the right to make full use of all their time in the end. So I don't see why that would be a problem? I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted by the MPs of the NS, SRS and SNS, and a list is being drawn up. I'm setting a break of 15.00 minutes. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We welcome the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Verica Kalanovic. We continue to work after suggestions from the MPs where we left off, and this is about the proposing representatives, Mrs. Verica Kalanovic, whether she wants a word. Mrs. Kalanovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64537	Ladies and gentlemen, we have three laws before us that we propose to bring together into unity and presentation and discussion. Since they are tied together, one affects the realization and implementation of the other and therefore let me speak unitedly about all three legislative proposals. It is about: Law amending and supplementing the Act on Business Companies, Act on registration procedure at the Agency for Commercial Registers and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers. As you remember and as many users of the Business Society Act remembers, in May we had a discussion and adoption of the Business Society Act. Almost undivided opinion here in the Assembly and among users, companies, in the professional public, this law has been assessed as one of the system laws, from a law that will very significantly improve the area for which it is adopted. I am very pleased that this law was in the public eye among the economic operators I met and after its adoption. Personally, but more important than being an individual to me, but also to the representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, competent institutions, proposals have been submitted concerning its application. At one point, he appeared on dozens of proposals related to improving the implementation of this law. That is why today I will propose amendments and additions to the 25 members of the Business Society Act that apply to it, to its better quality, better implementation. You'll see what's going on. What I think is the most important thing right now is that the law doesn't have a delayed application. Remember when we passed the law, the decision was made to start applying on 1 February 2012. This meant, at the same time, that from the beginning of the application of the law, the re-registration procedure with the new data provided for by law within the next three months means by the end of April 2012. Of course, all new companies are subject to the law on a new registration procedure or, more specifically, the registration procedure under the new rules. What the businessmen have in the meantime expressed as their concern is that this time period is such that there could be a reduction in the efficiency of the work of companies, as well as some costs. We believe that these activities, which are related to the reregistering of companies that already exist, can work in parallel with regular activities and therefore the proposal for this law to extend the registration procedure or to extend the registration procedure until the end of the second quarter of 2012 to submit applications by 15 July 2012. What's that gonna mean? For those who have been ready to enter the reregister since 1 February 2012, they will be able to do so. For those who consider this to be an additional cost, it is recommended that they comply with their regular activities that are mandatory in the first half of the year and at a cost reduction and with the security of efficiency they do so in the first two quarters. Clearly, those registering a new company from 1 February 2012 will do so in accordance with the new company law. The second and second part of the law on amendments and additions to the Business Society Act refers to the part where it is proposed to delete those members who administratively liquidate enterprises. In fact, all those companies that show losses greater than the value of capital are intended to be deleted administratively or automatically in this law. Why at this point we've decided to make these changes and additions. First of all, because in this time that represents the time of difficult activities of companies, without wanting to live in cabinets and not look at the real world and the real economy, we give opportunity and encouragement to all those businesses that, at this point, survive in times of hard work and continue to deal with their actions. At this point, more than 24,000 are those who showed losses in 2010 that are greater than the capital they have. We are deeply hoping that a large number of those who today would be automatically liquidated will still continue to live on the pleasure of those who are owners and those who are currently working. Therefore, the second group of amendments refers to erasing members who define automatic erasure or forced liquidation of companies that demonstrate negative balances beyond capital levels. The third part of the change refers to business associations and giving business associations status exactly what they have today, meaning associations, not companies. The second law refers to the registration procedure of the Agency for Economic Registers. I would like to remind you that the establishment of the Agency for Business Registers has introduced a process of registering companies through the Business Society Act. At that time, the first base of companies was established in line with the good practice of developed countries and the Law on registration was applied to existing companies, and very quickly the registration process and the establishment of registers was expanded so that the Agency for Business Registers had three registers. Today, however, the Agency for Business Registers has expanded its number to 15. Today, we also have the registration of public texts and NGOs and responsibilities, etc. We are currently running through the Business Registers Agency in 15 different areas. The registration procedure defined by this law implies standardisation of registration, both on the one hand by companies, which will retain the procedure as they have so far, with respect of course and respect for the Company Act, as well as all those which are currently covered by registers, means, both NGOs and all taxpayers related to business registers. So all those who go through the registration process in the next period will have the same registration through data collection. That information will be published. These data will be published, these data are updated and made available to the public. The second thing related to the registration process is to raise efficiency, through the introduction of the principle of silence of the administration of five days. To remind you, at this point, the Agency for Economic Registers is applying silence only to business entities, but also to the fact that at this point the number of users in the Agency for Economic Registers from 350,000 in 2009 increased to 900,000 in 2011. What exactly does this mean? This means that if there is no reply from the Administration of the Agency for Economic Registers for five days, the applicant shall be required by a legally approved request. Personally, I believe that this is a pioneering step in relation to administration and bureaucracy and that in many areas in the coming period, the silence of the administration should be established as a rule for the conduct of administrative procedures. Today, very often in contact with businessmen and other entities related to the Agency for Economic Operators, I find first approval of what the Agency is doing through the introduction of the principles of silence of the administration, but also the proposal to put a far greater number of procedures and procedures and institutions into this very principle, in order to raise efficiency. The third thing is to exclude the retroactive fact of enrolment, i.e. registration in all registers of the Agency. The registration procedure is normally accompanied by simultaneous publication of data on the Agency’s website and automatic fact by third parties. A clear answer to the issue of preventing the fight against corruption is contained in the Agency's internal procedures. Namely, you know exactly the number of procedures, the amount of time needed, the cost. The process has been automated to often rule out human factors both in decision-making and in providing information. The fourth thing is to further simplify and reduce the costs of the registration process by automating the process. To remind you, in 2011, the economy brought a total of 152,000 financial reports to the Agency, of which 126,000 or about 80% were filed via the Internet using a free electronic application on the Agency's website. Only this savings per Serbia's economy in this procedure amounted to over 50 million dinars. To remind me that this data has also contributed to the fact that at some point those data measured by reference houses, related to the business environment, are raised by a number of points, i.e. that Serbia is shown to be a country with a better business environment, which is extremely important in the overall activities of attracting investors. This law laying down the registration procedure in the Agency standardises uniform rules for all those entering the registration procedure. However, it doesn't matter what height these standards are at and it doesn't matter whether we at a far lower level at this point standardize the rules for all those entering the registration process. On the contrary, the Agency for Economic Registers and Laws that I now propose to the National Assembly raises standards in accordance with the standards of the most developed countries. In this regard, standards relating to the satisfaction of the users of this institution are in line with the most demanding standards of European countries, with ISO standards. Me and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development in the coming period will insist on raising standards in the direction of customer satisfaction of services, which will just have to be in the direction of standards that today have far more orderly economic systems and far more developed countries than Serbia. Only by raising the standards of those of which it depends to the greatest extent and the standard of our citizens can we be sure that we will advocate the economy in the right way, that economic operators will have not only the satisfaction, but also the more successful work and today's laws are just proposed in that direction. I sincerely hope that, as in the case of the Business Society Act, you will understand what the registration process means today and a new proposal for the registration process and amendments to the Law on one of the best institutions currently engaged in business entities and I expect you to support the adoption of these laws in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64538	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64539	Thank you, Chairman. It's usually very rare to say that in a debate about a law as a parliamentary group we say that we are in favour or against, but I didn't have a dilemma here, I wrote that we are against this law. You were talking about three out of five that were united. You didn't mention the Insurance Act and the takeover of stock companies. I won't be able to make it either, but out of these three, which you've been talking about, I believe in these 20 minutes I'll only be able to open up some problems about the first law, and that's the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agency for Economic Registers. The agency's process, which has been accepted since 2005 and which, without an explicit constitutional basis, has started to be a fashionable practice in the Republic of Serbia, and then in 2006, the Constitution has received some basis, is one of the most negative phenomena we have faced in the last seven or eight years. The shift of the state administration's affairs into the bodies that we call agencies and which are defined in the broadest possible way, by the definition I'm going to quote, led to the state administration's affairs being shifted as jobs to an agency, where responsibility from the ministry is transferred to the agency. In the ministry or state administration, people who did these jobs are hired here, and the Law on Public Agencys created such a space that the director of the agency, which should normally be placed in public competition, and then named it, that practice is not exactly respected, had defined rights that you would even want to extend by this law. That is, the director wants the board's right to take it for himself, and so far he's only right, for example. to do systematicization and something like that, and now, and regulations to bring. I tried to give one to the people an acceptable term to describe what the Law on Public Agencys for Serbia means in our legal system. I called him a tower in a sinking Pisa. If you call it a hunchback law, which would be common in one of our Serbian languages, it's a bit of a natural hump. If you say so - the wrong tree, and it is of nature. These people deliberately created a building that was curved and sinking. Now everyone else, in the legal system, laws and jobs, is in line with this curved tower that sinks, as well as the legality and conduct of the competences that are by nature and definition of state affairs. What bothers me especially is that once a miswritten law on public agencies, in February 2005, this government, the previous government and government in general, with such self-involvement in itself, will not say ignorance, but in their own selfishness and dishonesty towards the budget and citizens of Serbia, so consistently implements that it is simply amazing. How many professional articles have been written on the position of regulatory bodies and agencies in Serbia's legal system, but none of these scientific and professional works have been enough for you to wonder, what is wrong with that law which, for example, has such a definition. Please, who doesn't care, go out and take a walk. This hall serves to be discussed. He says – the right of founders in the name of the Republic of Serbia is being exercised by the government. That's what the Public Agency Act says. (President: Excuse me, Mrs Tabakovic. Mr. Markovic, you have no obligation to sit here, but if you are already sitting in the O.R., please do not disturb the speaker. Thank you. Thank you. I'm trying here, thinking it's heard in the broadcast, talking louder, and then we don't make a good impression as a congregation. Otherwise, I can't be distracted. So the definition in the Law on Public Agency is the following: the right of founders in the name of the Republic of Serbia is exercised by the Government. Then goes one point and the strangest sentence I have ever found in the law, below, reads like this – if by special law what else is specified. First of all, I find this "it's nothing else", it doesn't look like much of a formulation of ours, such a shortcut and a Serbian, but it doesn't matter. Article 8. The law on public agencies in this part – if it is not specific by law, it provides the same width as the law usually says, anything which is not explicitly prohibited, is allowed. As it is now used by public agencies and especially you, it is outrageous. If you think I'm exaggerating and being dramatic, only when I ask you in front of the public of Serbia, where do you get the right to have the Agency for Business Registers, under the database provided by natural and legal persons, consider itself a data producer who has the right to own that database? Sir, you're nodding your head. Public registry is like a birth certificate register. What and what does the state of Serbia today prove its sovereignty in the dispute with the self-proclaimed independent state of Kosovo? It's right over a public register called the parent's books. The way you've experienced the possibility of the Public Agency Act allowing you everything, and even asking for a reasoned request to be delivered to you, to give you some information that you allegedly produce and we deliver it to you, citizens, legal persons, is too much. Should the law on the availability of information, the one seeking information, explain his request? No, I don't. We're getting a lot of information. You even from other state authorities, past the law and the legal system, say – they can get information from you. It can be used, but it doesn't mean your obligation to deliver it to them. I do know and I do, and it bothered me when I was in 2008, when we first discussed the Labour Classification Act, 31. In October 2008, the law came, where there was an obvious intention to create from the Bureau of Statistics a meaningless body that would later be shut down and where you as the Agency for the Business Register, assume even a classification, that it is the intention to reach such a solution at some point. But this degree of impertinence of someone who was founded by the money of the Republic of Serbia, by law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia as founder gives you space, building, budget funds, building if you have the right to use. Now you're saying that you will determine the fee for the information that you are asked to do. Some are public, some will be sought. At that time, when we indirectly choked on statistics like that in 2008, you submitted quite an amendment, where we prayed that at least you had a minimum correct relationship with the citizens of Serbia, where when you were wrong, when you classify a company, you had an obligation under the law to receive a complaint and to correct it. No matter what, you refused all the amendments. You've taken to be the overwork of the one you're going to enroll. When We told you, how will you determine them? This large-scale activity brings the highest income, in terms of predominance. No, that's not acceptable. So that width, that discretionary coverage that you are now yourself as a director, right now, in that place you want to be, I find inappropriate because the state is a state. Some people on behalf of the state are competent, but the borders of the state are known and cannot be managed by the regulatory bodies that exist everywhere in the world and need to be several, telecommunications, broadcasting agencies, energy, etc., that even in the field of public registers behave as if they are completely independent, that they can now determine the compensation of whatever they want and that, in addition to what the law provides, the agency is set up for developmental, professional and similar jobs, you take the right to get out of it and to establish yourself, or to expand your activity as an agency that actually manages all registers that exist, suffling statistics, without the classification that we a little older person remember, so we know that no enterprise could register until there is no code of activity, so you could know who is the manufacturer, who is the mixer or who is the bagger, the mass of enterprises that are willing to enter legal traffic, to make fraud and to lose themselves. Instead of doing your basic business where, as a Business Registers Agency, you have to make sure that no companies are set up which, whether with deceitful intent or not or with Western difficulties, leave them, issue bonds, enter loans, be in debt, and you have allowed them, under the pretext of quick establishment and the right to bankruptcy, to transfer to a new company that is changing only one letter, property, to leave debts and a wolf eating a donkey on the other. How do they charge? I've heard that there are two people who have changed their names so much, that they'd avoid their obligations to utility companies, banks, relatives or others, because now they're new legal entities, for two strange exceptions. You leave it to be a rule in the legal traffic of Serbia where the words "security and predictability" are necessary to all of us, respond as a request from Europe, and you, instead of dealing with the verification, the credibility of the data you receive, not in the sense of the judicial authority, but to document the correctness that anyone who signs will guarantee when he cheats, conspires or delivers a false prospectus of privatisation, remembers that he is also responsible for being punished, not that impunity continues in the form of registration of companies. No, it's interesting for you to deal with the affairs of all registers past the Constitution, past the law, even the worst and worst we have, as the Public Agency Act. Which is a lot, it's a lot. Great Britain, for example. She was 90 years old. That's what the Agency is doing, and now they're dealing with the abolition of those agencies. Two years ago, Great Britain entered a system for reducing and abolishing the number of agencies. Do we have to go through this path of setting up agencies for everything and everything, where we're depriving the state, and we're asking the state for money, where we don't provide citizens with neither the quality of services nor the minimum of guaranteed human rights, and that, on the other hand, only when we wear ourselves out like that in front of our citizens can we literally say, embarrass and convince them that they shouldn't have trust in the state and the bodies that it establishes as agencies, then we'll remember that we're going back to abolishing the surplus agency or bringing existing agencies into the framework of the necessary jobs. Smart people learn from other people's mistakes. Why would we learn from our own mistakes, especially if we know that today with the highest incomes are exactly the agencies that for a single paper for which absolutely no knowledge is invested, but the data is delivered by citizens, they only include them with their registers and when they issue one single certificate, they seek norms, sums of money to collect it. To what extent do such actions embarrass the state? You won't believe me, so I printed the paper, and I didn't believe it when I got the document. Tax administration isn't an agency. As much as he's talking about investing in software and how serious the state is, I'll give you an example. New Sad has become a very interesting city for tax citizens, for example. They deliver notices, not solutions, so they can't complain about obligations 10 years ago unfounded, etc., and the latest announcement is one of our esteemed fellow citizens that she needs to pay taxes on an apartment she doesn't own. An intelligent journalist comes to her senses, so she sends a request to the IRS, or an offer to give them the apartment they assigned her. She says, thanks for the gift, but she doesn't know if it's conditional, at which address, they didn't schedule the handover of the keys, she doesn't know who's going to call a press conference, etc., here, she would return, but that the gentlemen she gives the apartment she doesn't have, that they take for themselves the obligation to pay taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, but she's wondering something that's not a joke – is she, in order not to pay taxes on a flat she doesn't have, to write a complaint, should really pay 320 dinars? How many people got this kind of paper in New Sad or something? To pay 320 dinars of fees on a complaint, to take off her head a commitment she doesn't actually have. If he complains, he'll have to pay the cost. If he does not complain, one can come to the door and say, "Why did you not complain? You are in debt, and you have no interest in any obligation you do not have?" This intelligence that this body has, the ingenuity that you show, this isn't quarantined, these are documents, it can zoom into the camera, this is one tax administration solution that's arrived in Novi Sad. What do you say? That's not happening to you. It will happen to you, Mr. Director, because when you say you run all the registers, I strayed the other day at your presentation, instead of going to "jump the budget," because it was a panel of state the same day as yours, or part of that panel, and you said, "We'll run all the subsidy registers." You remembered when it was spent close to six billion euros in regulations, not by law, and you said -- we'll have aggregated data. What it means to us is that citizens on average eat sarma if someone eats cabbage all the time, and someone eats meat all the time, and we don't know what's in that sack, as aggregated data, but you're asking the citizens to pay you to run those registers, organize panels and promote it as some new and extremely important job. I really don't know whose well-being you're counting on, whose ignorance you're counting on, or who you're counting on, 126-handed people who aren't able to read and hear, because I want you to tell me what's the benefit of this establishment and taking over jobs that someone's already been doing, where we didn't have a problem with not having any data. All we have is a problem is that today we don't know how many agencies there are. We knew how many associations and political parties and companies, etc., but we don't know who's cheating on us, whether he really has a company or has electronically reported to you that he has property or that he can go bankrupt and therefore doesn't answer, we don't know if there are 136 agencies, how many are counted by Mr. Sabic, but we don't even have answers to a few of the most significant questions. If the state's money is established by these companies, are they direct or indirect budget users? This means for citizens who do not need to know what the consolidated account of the vault is and indirect and direct budget users, whether they are buying under the Public Procurement Act, where their current accounts are held, whether they are in some business banks, whether they are in the People's Bank, whether they are in charge of the surplus money, whether they are paying extras to the budget or not, these are the real questions for that number of agencies that we don't know how many there are. You want to run as a registry agency for everyone else. What's interesting... (President: I thank you. Time's up for an authorised representative. I thank you. I'll be in touch with you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64540	He's advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs. Veronica Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64541	Mr. Novakovic injured the 107th member and the dignity of the National Assembly when he spoke to his colleague, Momir Markovic, earlier, said that the MP did not have to sit in the assembly hall and, roughly, if he was not told he could come out. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that the chairman can in such a way draw the attention of the MP to possible inappropriate behaviour. I want to draw attention to the fact that the National Assembly session is not a memorial gathering. You can't expect a camera situation here. Mr. Novakovic, you talk very often to someone who sits next to you and we never resented it. It would have been more appropriate if you had told Mrs. Jorgenki Tabakovic that if she had no concentration, she didn't have to speak. You know, she's sitting here anyway based on the fact that she stole the SRS mandate. The fact that Dinkic and Nikolic have made a combination of some future love, please choose at your conventions which, by the way, you are maintaining the opposite of the Anti-Corruption Act. We hope that that is why, in a material sense, you will respond, and certainly the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when they go to the polls, will know that the prices and behaviour of political parties, not only in the election campaign, but also before and after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64542	Of course, there is no breach of article 107. My legal and business obligation is to take care of order at the National Assembly session. The moment I estimate that someone is speaking too loudly, that is, talking, and thus even distracting me from closely following what the messenger is saying, it is my duty to warn him. The way I did it can be the subject of suggestion, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, if you are not satisfied, the Assembly will make a statement in the voting day. (The Faith of Radeta, from the city: Let him plead. That's what he'll do. I warn you that most of your reference to my alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure has been used by you to discuss the relations of political parties which, I think, as legal persons or organisations cannot be the subject of any violation of the Rules of Procedure at all. Thank you for understanding. Mrs. Verica Kalanovic, the Deputy Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64543	Thank you. I just wanted to get the public to answer a few questions. I will try again to systematicize in three groups what Parliamentarian Tabakovic has set as an example. The first refers to the fact that we were not before us to amend and supplement the Law on Public Agencys, because there were more words about agencies at all than the Agency for Economic Registers. We have a law on amendments and amendments to the Business Registers Agency Act, and I would like us not to discuss public services, the public sector at all, when we talk about something here in both the country and the EU countries and the world has significant references. When we talk about who deals with registers and who runs business registers in Europe and in countries around the world, I can inform you that more than two thirds of the EU countries have exactly the institutions called agencies. The rest has institutions called registers. Of the countries that are comparable in Europe, perhaps to us, except Spain and the Netherlands, where registers are tied to chambers of commerce, the state administration is only bound in the Czech Republic. It is precisely in the Czech Republic that they are related to the MUP and their intensities are to leave the MUP and set up a special institution to deal with it. Also, when it comes to professionalism, setting up management in public competitions, I think everyone knows that I am the personal and political option that I belong to. In 2008, a public competition was launched and the director was elected to a public competition at the Business Registers Agency. In the past five years, the Agency for Business Registers has not changed the number of employees for any employee and currently has 358. I just checked that out with the people who are here. These 358 people are currently doing jobs that before the existence of the Business Registers Agency in these areas, 2,000 people have worked in this activity. Also, I'd like to inform you that the account of the Agency for Economic Registers is in the Treasury. So it can't be talked about abuses, party formations, or unprofessional creations. I end this group of issues with the fact that, just as a recognition to the Serbian Business Registers Agency, he followed, not a call, but that for two years, the director of the Serbian Business Registers Agency has been chairing the European Registers and that our agency is one of the most prestigious in this association of business registers. When you talk about the availability of data is a basic rule, I say – yes, transparency and accessibility are necessary and a being, but that is why abuses are neither allowed, nor do we want to continue to advertise in the next period what is called data abuse. If you say that the protection of the state goes to the border, I say that the protection of the state must go and so that they do not cross the border, and at this point we have a phenomenon that the database in this area is the subject of frequent abuses. We must not allow what is the base of state to be abused for private purposes. Also, you're saying that neither the state authorities, the state authorities are absolutely free of charge of obtaining data according to, of course, their actions, and so it will continue to be. The director will not have any further discretionary authority to discuss it. You're talking about the relationship between the board of directors and directors. I think you've read that the director should be in charge of making methodological and professional instructions and forming expert teams and preparing service models to users. I see it as part of management, not as part of the abuse of power. Also, when you talk about what we want to introduce under the registers, I would like to remind you that, immediately after I arrived at the post of Vice-President of the Government for Economic and Regional Development, one activity was launched and precisely at the time when the Business Society Act was passed to do something where we do not want to hear whether a neighbour founded one or another company, rather than making a register of disqualified persons, where clearly established rules will establish who has the right to start a company or, more specifically, who has no right to start a company, if he was the owner, member of an executive or supervisory board. The disqualification register is currently in the preparation phase and, as far as the public is concerned, I can say that in the previous two or three years, the number of persons who would have been registered and that we introduced it through regulation, over two thousand people could not register under their name either, or under an AD or a changed name. Also, what I want to remind you is that registers in Europe are not the ones in charge of police investigations either. The contracts for the establishment of enterprises have been approved in court, are a document certified by the Court's seal and the Agency for Commercial Registers, not only to accept it but to accept it as a merodative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64544	Thank you. Mrs. Tabakovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64545	As soon as I can answer some of your statements. So I have to talk about the Public Agency Act, because this agency was founded under the Public Agency Act. But she doesn't abuse the position of indirect and direct user in the vault. But he's questioning the most important thing, where? Tell me present gentleman or let him tell you, if he doesn't have the right to speak, as he doesn't. Is it known somewhere in the legal system or in parallel that public books are owned by anyone other than the state and that any register can say – I am a database producer, which is public books and that they can be accessed even by state authorities, you say so – you prescribe by law that the Agency can subscribe to state authorities, not tell the sea, but say yes. It's not a nightmare. Second, you say abuse in registers. Which one? Lising, public ballots, foreign associations, foster regional development, chamber registers, where were the abuses? This is how I'm gonna tell you, a lot of the law is late. When six billion subsidies are spent, you want to control them. When a movie network is destroyed, we have the Cinema Act, and why does everything have to be destroyed first, and then laws are introduced after 10, 12 years, which we're going to solve. Don't conduct investigations. Well, yeah, that's why it was possible that in the privatisation prospectus, a huge machine that's being run in the basics register as a building can't be found, and they see citizens, for example. in Verbas when the candy was sold. So, there's no problem with a rich guy who doesn't know who he is, and the one in the city he sees and knows, reporting data that's not right, that's his biggest problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64546	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word, in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: New Serbia, Forward Serbia and the SRS. I give my word to MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64547	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, I would like first to express one dissatisfaction, because I do not understand who these two other legislative proposals in the Assembly, which are very serious explanations, can in some way respect the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister has declared himself to these three, but it was the basis for someone from the Ministry who is responsible for this to be explained by this law. I think that the citizens of Serbia will, in practice, be denied for the Government's explanation of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Download of Action Societys and the Proposal for a Law amending the Insurance Act, so I don't want my discussion to be practically focused on these two practical draft laws, and on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Companies, which was explained in one part by the Deputy Prime Minister. So, I won't repeat myself, colleague Jorvanka Tabakovic has made very comprehensive suggestions and criticisms on these two draft laws. Therefore, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Business Society Act. The legislator notes that the interested parties have, over the past few months since the adoption of the new company law in the National Assembly, come to know the provisions of this law and that the amendment and complementarity essentially arises as a result of the reference by these entities to certain ambiguities which the provisions of the new law could challenge in practice. A logical question is raised as a result of this reasoning: what were many public debates, round tables and the opinions of many experts on this area during the preparation of the bill? Does the Government in this way indirectly acknowledge that public debates, opinions of the professional public, in the extreme line, suggestions and objections of those to whom the provisions of the law primarily apply, in this case companies, are merely a tower that should create the impression that the legislative procedure in Serbia is maximumly open and accessible to all, and that the essence is quite different and that laws are passed in ministries as before? What I particularly want to point out is one, practical, amazing explanation of why it enters these changes and additions, which is that certain ambiguities have arisen as a result of the adoption of a large number of amendments. For each of us sitting in this assembly, one such thing, regardless of what MPs are concerned, because very often amendments and those parties that are in office, i.e. supporting government and legislative proposals, therefore, what is most often adopted by the opposition, it is criticised that such ambiguities have occurred here, among other things. I just have one opposite position – that if a large number of amendments are made, we've repeatedly pointed out here, some law passed, then I'm the legislator if he sees that there are so many amendments that have to be accepted, then there's really something wrong with such a bill. After all, we here serve to control, we have a control function of passing such laws, and then I really can't understand that someone can reason like this that, and even in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there are services whose job is to bring the legal proposal in line in case the adoption of certain amendments results in an internal discrepancies in the text of the law. These are very bad excuses for one, practical, entering the procedure of amending and supplementing the law, but nothing new. It has long been a practice in Serbia that laws do not yet come into force and that the proposer is seeking their amendment and supplementation. So much for now for this one law. As regards the draft law amending the Insurance Act, the draft law provides for the extension of the life insurance and non-life insurance business by one more year in relation to the current legal solution, stating as a reason that the global financial crisis, especially in the euro area, is an additional legally regulated area of insurance, and in this respect the need to develop a new insurance law, which would largely adopt new solutions from comparative legislation. All these reasons stand but cannot serve as an excuse for two facts. First, why wait until the second half of December for this change to be directed into the congregation procedure if, as explained above, the draft of a new law is working very hard. So it continues with government practice to wait for the last hour to do anything, and with the current budget to come, given that the legal deadline for the separation of the transactions in question occurs in less than 15 days. Secondly, it is not possible to take the impression that behind this proposal, as usual in Serbia, it is lobbying precisely those insurance companies that have this legal obligation and which, by law, welcome unprepared deadlines, or simply by extending their obligation to keep their acquired positions on the insurance market for another year. However, a poor non-serious legislative practice continues in the Republic of Serbia, so we can also ask ourselves, on the basis of such examples, why we did not get the candidacy, the one practically this government with this number of laws, and probably many others do, but this is the kind of behavior that we certainly distance ourselves from when it comes to the legislative work of parliament. What I am going to talk about in particular and what I am going to talk about most is a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the takeover of stock companies. As much as the proposed law has good intentions when proposing a bill that regulates a particular area of social life. It should, primarily, be aware of the fact that quality of application is essential in the resolution of these laws to have quality institutions and people with integrity to adhere to laws and regulations. When we talk about this particular area, it's the legal norm of procedures, the takeover of stock companies, this finding unfortunately gets its full meaning. The state can pass I don't know how high-quality laws and stick to the best possible comparative theories and experiences, it's all in vain if you don't have people who will consistently respect those same laws. To specify this principled observation, here I primarily think of the Committee on Charters of Values, which should set up an institution of trust over which not by chance only the control role is played by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whose members are ultimately elected by this high house. It is an institution whose integrity and maximum professional commitment should guarantee an average of extremely high income not only members but also a high percentage of employment. Especially if they compare to other employees in the state administration and the public sector in general. Instead, we have an institution that hasn't done its job for years, in a way that should have been very often in the public interest and, of course, in a very bad context. In Article 9. The draft law proposes amendments to Article 13a of the current law. These amendments provide, inter alia, that the Securities Commission shall adopt a decision approving the takeover offer when it determines the completeness and credibility of the data contained in the takeover bids and documents submitted with the request for the authorisation of the publication of the offer, and that the price of the takeover bid established in accordance with the law. It is further predicted that when deciding on the request in question, the Commission does not assess the justification and consistency of the elements of the takeover offer. The Commission will, if it determines certain irregularities during this procedure, order the tenderer to make a request and provide unworthy documentation, etc. If the bidder fails to comply with the commission's request within the basic time limit, the commission will reach a conclusion rejecting the bidder's request. So, great discretion on the side of the commission, and its previous composition, and neither this current nor a little bit of confidence, is going to justify such wide-ranging legal powers. It is certain that a large number of cases in the practice that occurred have a negative connotation, there have been several examples of various ways when the Commission bypasses some serious bidders from the securities of value, so that in several cases the application for approval and offers, for example, was passed on in accordance with the legislations which regulated this area at the time. However, since the current management of the target society at the time this offer was not at will, for example, it has made an obstruction of the bidder's sychronised action with the logistic support of the commission. Namely, the Book of Shareholders has not been updated, and it is therefore not updated to the Central Register, the Commission has taken hold of this unsustainableness and has practically rejected the request for approval, a request for approval, for an offer, to be taken over by one faceless conclusion that the updated Book of Shareholders must wait. Which is the previous question in this procedure. This failure was never on the side of a secure bidder, but that is why only he was ultimately damaged since the offer in question was never granted, and none of those who knowingly violated the legal obligations were invited to be held accountable, and in that Member of the Commission's proposal for a law giving all possible powers to the situation are still not taken into account and only foresees the obligations and responsibilities of the bidder unless the commission is ordered to regulate the request. I end up, no wonder the capital market in Serbia has long been in a state of clinical death and the corruption index is what it is, and serious foreign investors are running from here with their heads no matter what. The global financial crisis, it just comes as a good-looking excuse so we don't deal with the essence of the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64548	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64549	I thank you, two more things that have been left unsaid to me about the law itself, specifically about amending and supplementing the Agency for Business Registers, which is not entirely justified, and against that, to run such registries. It restricts one right of citizens that whenever they object to the work of something that represents the state administration in the broadest sense of the word, they may comment on it because you have given the right to be once a year by means of solutions in this bill. So, the obligation stemming from the Public Agency Act, that users of services address you with objections whenever they see them, you wrote that they can make these remarks, will be considered by a member of the Management Board who, for that year, the Agency Management Board and you say once a year, but when is that? On January 1st, March 31st, December 31st, when does it start, when it ends, God knows? You're saying the Agency's work is being supervised by the Ministry. What's that? Someone. You know by the Law on Public Agency that there must be a competent ministry for the work of a certain agency, and by nature things should be for you here the Ministry of Local Self-Government and you'll see it by amendments and we predicted it. Why is it necessary to oversee the work of your agency? And free members 123. The Constitution is prescribed that the laws are carried out by the Government, which supervises all authorities of the state administration, and the Law on Public Agencys absolutely states in Article 7 – that in terms of legality, expertise, political neutrality, impartiality, use of the official language and letters, professional arrangements, the training of employees working in the entrusted affairs of the state administration and in matters of office, that rules relating to state administration apply to the work of public agencies. So, since the Government is obliged by the Constitution to enforce the laws and to supervise the authorities of the state administration, and you are in the ranks of the authority of the administration, although you are an agency, it is really appropriate that there is an authority that will decide in the second degree and that it is known which, and not as often as we have, in such proceedings, who has issued a double seal, so that between the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, a specific case and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, this ball has transferred that in this bureaucratic vacuum between the two authorities that are both competent, in fact, it turns out that none is responsible, because no one will take responsibility. It is important because a member and 56 are prescribed that each authority holder obtains an opinion on the regulation adopted by the supervisory authority. You can't interpret regulations as a director. You can write a proposal for your board of directors, but ask for it to be so in law. I believe you're very intelligent, valuable, capable, but you can't create a precedent that then opens the way for other precedents just like the Law on Public Agencys did. What's a big problem, perhaps even greater than the broad powers of the Agency for Economic Registers, is the procedure you've provided for the registration. Here, I will start with Article 2 which defines the registrar and in point 5) you define it as a natural person who runs the register, appointed in accordance with the law governing the legal position of the agency. Wait, isn't the registrator just that physical face, and we've defined it nicely for you as a function of authority to run a register that's being conducted in accordance with this law. I think you should think carefully about defining the term "registrator". Because he is a functioner. It is appointed by the Government, so that, within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, this function must be considered a public function. Excuse me, look at the Public Agency Act, how the appointment is done. Even one who chooses to compete is called the Government. Take a closer look. The conflict of interest, even in the few hours of the law on taking over and the abuse of people with privileged information working on the stock exchanges, creates the necessary caution, the necessary measure to prescribe that there is no conflict of interest. For what? Because of the connected persons, because of the Money Laundering Act, because of the Law of Conflict of Interest and everything that is actually happening. Excessive head doesn't hurt. This isn't madness, this is necessary caution. I'm warning you in time. Secondly, there's no need to define the term "applicator". This is the general concept and under the Administrative Procedure Act, of any natural or legal person who submits an application or any request to the national authority is called that. However, you should bear in mind that applicants are, as a rule, state authorities and legal entities that report the establishment, change of data or the like. And when you enter a decree – a person authorized – it is simply unnecessary and legally impossible, because the fact that someone was not authorized or not authorized to file an application is determined only in the application procedure. For a little while, you said yourself that you weren't the investigative authorities that were checking the credibility of something. Isn't that contrary to what I'm asking of you? To check out the material, essential, important data for the legal life of whoever registers with you. And all you have here is the applicant of the report that has to be authorized. My concern, move on to another. As in the coalition government, all the merits belong to you when you present yourself, the one who is not there – he is always guilty. So it's not just authorized, because it's only after the report that someone unauthorized did it. The rules for writing the law, Mr. Novakovic, seem to apply only to us MPs and amendment applicants. For the government, our rules to use a nice, Serbian language seem to be out of order. We all agree that whoever has a language knows what its integrity is, and you write here, in Article 3: "chronological continuity and priority", and in accordance with our Constitution, it would be so nice to write as priority and timeline. I think we use foreign expressions too often and incorrectly, and the Constitution requires us to use the words that exist in Serbian anywhere we can. But this isn't just about being a substitute. It's simple, it's not even relevant. Because the word: "continuity" standard means continuity, continuity. In this case, it is simply a matter of time, or moment of enrollment. It's probably high time you did these foreign expressions during those competitions in terms of the use of those who apply to work in the authorities of the administration. In Article 4. The bill that speaks of issues relating to the registration process means the essence of the law and the recording, I think it's completely excessive. It is said that "the law governing the general administrative procedure is applied accordingly". What's appropriate? Article 38. The law on public agencies on the basis of which you have a legal life states: "The decision in the administrative procedure shall be made by the Director of a public agency or by a person who has his authority. As a first-degree solution to the public agency, a solution to its regional unit is also taken. The complaint about the agency's solution is being resolved by the ministry whose work is being done by the public agency", etc. So the administrative procedure can't be valid for a little while, and the rest isn't valid. It can't be the same. The administrative procedure shall be applied. One illogicality, I assume one of you is a lawyer, which you are in Article 8. The proposal is indicated where the entry of the notice is made on the basis of application or on official duty. You say, "The registrar determines the existence of facts" we say – which are entered in the register, and you wrote, "If the registrator comes to the knowledge of facts and documents that are relevant to legal traffic." One of you can sit in a bar with a friend and hear some information written like this, according to your assessment that it's important for legal traffic, it can be important for enrolment. My people, is it not only what is determined in the matter of a solution and can be a basis for enrollment? It's such an undefined notion of "come to know" that it just seems unserious, not to use a harsh word. Do you know what it means to register and what the consequences of any entry into the register are? If you type something on the basis of knowledge in such an undefined way – come up with some knowledge, I regret those to whom this law applies if this stays this way. In Article 10, for example, where you are talking about the deadline for filing a application, you give a 15-day deadline as a very important deadline within which all the tasks that are related to the subject of registration must be completed, i.e. in terms of changes. If the deadline for the application has expired, the fee shall be paid in accordance with the regulation governing the fees charged by the Agency for its services. I'd like you to explain to me that by not writing down the facts, where no third parties are being damaged, because you're saying that the assumption of accuracy of the data recorded in the register applies, which could damage any public interest or protect itself within this time period that you've given as 15 days? Who is the appeal to? Minister in charge. It can't be any minister for reasons I've already been instructed, because it must, as the law requires, that there is a ministry responsible for your affairs. Secondly, you must also define that the number and date of the decision to be refuted, the reasons for the opposition, the identification of the applicant, etc., that you do not bother. When we adopted the Business Society Act, we adopted that on the company's memorandum there should be no information about the company, no jury account, no seat, no nothing, that it is not burdening the paper, that it is trying to look for the person who is causing you damage or debt or in legal traffic has entered into some business relationship with you, but that you lose at least one day of such a list on the Internet or asking for information. So you have to delete Section 2 in which you say that the applicant cannot appeal to facts that are not included in the application and documents that are not attached with the application. It's imperial, you won't think at all. If you don't have the document that anyone who complains is calling, so you're the authorities of the administration, the interlinked software, so much money spent, you're looking for each other's data. It's just that you can't limit the person who file a complaint to the right when he calls for a fact, especially when he thinks he's proving someone's right. This is contrary to generally accepted legal rules, the Law on Administrative Procedure, the Constitution not to mention. Whether these facts will be of an impact on the decision, it is something else and you will appreciate it, whoever is above you in the second-degree procedure, but those two things cannot interfere, and you are mixing them exactly as you say – if we do not have that document or you have not submitted it, I will not decide. The registrar's decision on the appeal. Again comes the determination, the assessment indefinitely as finding out the facts in some procedure. So, you're saying -- if the registrator estimates that the appeal is untimely, it's not a language formulation, it's a determination, because the grade teacher estimated that the student deserves a two or five, missed the subject, liked his surreal, real or whatever writing composition, but you as the people who run the entrusted affairs of the state administration can't judge and evaluate. You have to determine, because the Law on litigation, the administrative procedure, the second procedural law, the laws of that very formulation are used and asked of you, as someone who will unite all those laws concerning the legal life of one of the subjects you decide on. Once again, you were out there in article 30, what you were repeating or determining, and not to tire you out a lot, I'm just going to mention the end – the end of the rules. You've introduced yourself those numerous registers as an obligation, now you're going to be struggling, you've got wonderful software, they've praised you in the world, it's nice, it'd just be nice to do your job first, and then expand your performance. In Article 48, you said that on the day of application of this law, the relevant register ceases to apply the laws, so all the laws covering the registers that you have now taken over and registration of business entities and the Employment and Foundations Act, which treat the keeping of records and registers, and the Sport Act, and the Publishing Law, and the Financial Lising Act, and the Registration Regulation of foreign legal entities, etc. However, you have not told us that you have prescribed a condition for enrolment in individual registers and how you have described what should contain the necessary documentation, or what other laws have predicted, and now you need to, because you take these jobs and you say – those laws cease to apply. And what We have obtained is a legal void. So, in the event of the termination of the provisions as you state, it would simply prevent the legal conduct of the registration procedure in the register, which, in the end line, produces a failure to exercise the rights of natural and legal persons whose interests you actually need to worry about, on the basis of whose means of profit, budget payments, taxes, etc., you support and function. Ambition should be covered really and well-intentioned by those to whom it applies. There's a problem in a lot of the law. I will not be surprised by your stubbornness to reject any objections that have been made, but behind what has been said here, which remains in the stenograms, whether anyone sees it or not, is stored stenograms in this home, since the Parliament exists, but it's not enough to say - we were right, there's been damage. It's not enough to say after spending six billion, we control how subsidies were given to regulations. No, I don't. Preventive action is not just a practice of medical experts. We bring and we need to pass laws that prevent abuses, not laws that we actually allow. No matter how much I expose matter for my own sake, as Mr. Markovic said yesterday, temperament, and I say, "Energy and desire to see me well-intentioned," and I'm totally natural like this, don't let it bother you, look at some amendment. Let's make these laws that you've passed today last, not like the Law on Economic Society talk again, and recently we've talked about it, and not that through the Act on the takeover of stock companies, we'll once again experience the embarrassment that I'm about to repeat. When we last discussed the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, while we discussed amendments to the law that will not be adopted for four days, these solutions were already taken and implemented at the Chamber of Commercial Banks. Who is the law now being prepared for? Now who's getting ready to cancel? That's a special question. Will someone once again slaughter the ox for a kilo of meat, and a kilo of meat is one choice, and a much more serious thing is the duration of the state and the large systems and all that we need to care about? Think on time and while it's time. I thank you for your attention and we will vote against these laws, but we will assure you that the amendments we have submitted should still be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64550	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The word could be given to Mr. Zoran Krasic, but he is not in the O.R., so I give the People's MP to Mr. Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64551	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, Deputy Prime Minister Kalanovic is not here. And we noticed that there was no talk of important laws, that is, important proposals to amend the Insurance and Download Act. We think it's a kind of escape from a topic that gathers our citizens and is concrete. It is a one-state situation that is not normal in the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, primarily in the banking sector, but also in the insurance sector. In this regard, we believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ministers, in particular ministers in charge of the financial sector, should deal with one fact that can be reduced to a simple and simple matter, that there are the biggest interest in Europe in the Republic of Serbia. It is not just an SRS attitude, but something that has been expressed by economic science, for example by Mr. Vukkovic and the magazine "Makoroeconomic Analysis". So, there is one situation that needs to be changed, and we think that everything else, stories about agencies, stories about the register, is needed to reach the best solution, but it is about something that is in turn for our citizens, perhaps for some financial elite that exists definitely in this country and that is relying on the EU and that is trading on the stock market, but for an average citizen, for a citizen who has an increasingly low salary and less opportunity to repay those lihavaric credits, however, we believe that a little more has to be devoted first of all to the draft law amending the Insurance Act and the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies. Why do we think that? Because in an explanation, for example. The law amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies clearly states that the basic law has contributed and that the purpose of this law and the whole of this policy in the financial sector seems to be to take over our banks, our financial organisations, insurance companies by so-called. foreign investors or, if we translate it into an even simpler dictionary, it is about financial organisations, banks from the Western part of the EU, above all from Austria, Germany, France, Italy and banks and financial organisations that have brought us back to the beginning of our exposure, that we are dealing with an abnormal situation, that we have the biggest interest in Europe. This is something we wanted to hear from the Deputy Prime Minister, from Madam Minister, to hear about the projections, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do, together with the National Bank, in terms of correcting this completely abnormal situation, because we believe that the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services and that we presented when it was governor here is simply not enough to protect the rights of citizens and the rights of users, which is something you know for sure, and we know as a party that is against the EU, not only because they take 15% of our territory, but we also believe that in economic terms of the EU, a bad project for the Republic of Serbia. In this European right, we believe that much attention is paid to consumer rights. Also, in the light of the proposal for a law amending the Insurance Act, it is stated that Article 234 is amended and the reasons for the adoption of this law are then cited. The first reason is a systematic alignment with EU law. Another reason is the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance, then the legal certainty is cited and, particularly interesting, the preparation for a new law in this area. We believe that this law must take into account not only the situation in relation to life insurance and non-life insurance. You must know that non-life insurance, i.e. The insurance of property is much more represented. If I'm not mistaken, it's about 90% of this sector, but we think there are problems that are similar to those problems that we listed in the banking sector. I'll be very specific and clear there, it's an attempt so-called. EU friend, i.e. EU insurance companies yes, I am fully specific here, and I am sorry that Mrs Kalanovic is not here to answer my specific question, and that is an attempt to take over the Danube Insurance or the largest insurance company in the sector. It is something that is not our speculation or that we are now carrying out some conspiracy theories, but we are calling for a concrete statement by the first deputy prime minister, Deputy Prime Minister, who said on October 10th 2011, that the IMF is asking the Republic of Serbia to sell "Dunav Insurance" or an insurance company that has the largest stake in this sector and to make it clear that the only other serious insurance company in the Republic of Serbia has remained. Our specific question was addressed to the government and to Mrs Kalanovic, who is unfortunately not there, was – whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia would cave under IMF requirements, as she gave in to the Budget Law, because she violated all deadlines that were under the Budgetary System Act. A month, which is totally scandalous, under the recognition that the IMF is asking to break the Budgetary System Act and break all deadlines, from 1 November and 15 December, will it do so again and will it allow the sale of our, Serbian, state-owned insurance house "Dunav Insurance"? This is a question of questions and issues related to this insurance law and to the law that you are announcing, in the light of these amendments, and which will soon be passed. We simply believe that not only as an opposition party that is against the EU completely, not only because they take 15% of our territory, but also for economic reasons, we also believe that citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all those people who pay for the insurance premium, and you will admit that many, that there are hundreds of thousands and millions, have the right to know whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia will act in the same way as it did with four banks in 2001, with those four domestic banks? These are facts and these are some basic questions. We really don't see, and of course, we're not against any arguments, but we don't see if there's a more important issue at this point than that in the insurance sector. Now we can also talk about changing this member, more specifically about one extension in a year, and that's legitimate on your part. But this is about a kind of IMF blackmail, a kind of blackmail that leads to us listening to the deputy prime minister who says the IMF is asking to sell the Danube Insurance. We are against it, and we believe that there must be a state strong house in this sector, such as Dunav Insurance, especially after the sale of DDOR-Novi Sad, especially after the sale of Mr. Miskovic, Delta Insurance, and now it's Delta Generals. We simply see that you have a tendency to take over the insurance sector completely by the so-called. A friend from the EU, more specifically than those who take away not only 15% of our territory, but take away our standard, impose the biggest interest in Europe, and in fact encourage unemployment and the decline of living standards in the Republic of Serbia. We also see in the reasoning of the law that there is already a famous declaration of compliance with EU rules. It's in line with the Government's Rules of Procedure. It is recognised that Article 72 will apply to this part of harmonisation or harmonisation with European law. SSP. It's one general deadline and you must know it's about a deadline that's up until 2014. More specifically, since 2008. 2014 or 6 years. But we don't understand who wrote this bill? We of the SRS who are against the EU, who are against and in a legal sense and we believe that adoption or harmonisation is so-called. European laws are bad for our legal system, for the legal coherence of the Republic of Serbia, we have noticed that the draft law does not know anything factually about the SAA, and it is a terrible scandal, because we have been constantly listening here for the last four years that the SAA has been a minority of the Holy Scriptures. We also had a breakup in the SRS, because this faction that wanted to sign the SAA, it did it at all costs, and you saw that it was something that defines the political, economic and legal scene in the Republic of Serbia at the moment. We come to the fact that the draft law did not read the SAA, because it does not refer to Article 91. A SAA that can now be a non-xus or legal relationship with this bill, because it is now regulating the banking sector, services and insurance. The total ignorant wrote, and I have to use that expression, and I don't know who that is, this proposal for a law dealing with insurance. It is a kind of automatism, a type of copying that is probably similar for elementary school and a little worse students in primary school, but not similar to the most legislative body, is not similar for the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a scandal that didn't show up for the first time, and we were already talking about it when Mr Djelic was there, and now he's left his post. We also see that in the light of this insurance law, the legislator calls for the Council of the European Communities Directive 73-226 and Directive 79-267. However, although the government act, which you are part of, obliges it to present a compliance table, probably because of negligence and sloppyness, and I don't know what, I won't speculate, there is no compliance table here with EU laws. It is said not to be necessary, because the law allegedly comes down to short changes, which again shows a kind of sloppyness, a kind of negligence and a kind of understatement of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the highest legislative body in the Republic of Serbia and once again proves our thesis, that it is a mere copying of the law, a mere copying of some norms that do not have a slight connection with the problems that affect citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why it gets worse every day, both in legal and economic terms, and of course, as far as the southern Serbian province is concerned. When we look at some more data, they warn us again that we have to show some kind of concern about the situation on the insurance market. We can see that life insurance is, and imagine what a percentage is – 92%, in the hands of foreign insurance companies. It's a monopoly, it's an inadmissible monopoly. We say again, if this request or the IMF ultimatum is met, to sell the Danube Insurance, it will actually come to 100% and Serbia will be a kind of economic colony or neo-colony. I don't know the right expression, because it doesn't exist. There is not even such a thing in countries that the EU, in fact, has completely destroyed economically, such as Hungary, which has $235 billion in debt this year, or Poland, which has 365 billion in debt. You will admit that the situation in Slovenia, which also has a huge debt, is similar. If I'm not mistaken, it's about $60 billion somewhere. In the same Slovenia, which is in the worse and worse economic situation due to EU accession, you have "Triglav insurance" which is state-owned. If you can't keep one of those minimums on the insurance market, then we don't need a government. Then all we have to do is put this Mr. Allen from the IMF to tell us what we need to sell, that he determines how many pensions we need, that he determines when to adopt the budget or that he determines the IMF representative, Mr. Allen, who has ruined these two examples that I have set, Hungary and Poland, where he was a representative, and you certainly know that, for years, the IMF. If we have reached that point, it shows not only that there is one type of pressure by the EU, but that shows the state of consciousness of the political and intellectual elite, which justifies such unbulful and pointless steps. Also, as for non-life insurance, you have one bad situation again that foreign insurance companies have almost 60% of the market, which is a monopoly again, and you certainly know that, according to EU competition law, all over 40% in the part of the single market is a monopoly. Here you have 60%, again one kind of evidence that it is a monopoly of foreign insurance companies and companies in the Western part of the EU and total assets that shows that foreign insurance companies again have over 65% of the market in the Republic of Serbia and over 65% of employees. We also don't understand why you don't run one national, one state-owned policy in the insurance sector, because it's precisely these people who come from the IMF, like Mr. Allen, who can't deny the fact that there's a new trend in national protection in the West. You know for a fact that this is exactly the kind of financial giants like "Fani Meja" and "Fredi Mecca" that have again sought aid from the American state, even though they have received about 180 billion dollars by now. So they are re-applying, as in the case of political developments around Kosovo, double standards, as well as Western so-called. Friends from the EU are not valid for Serbia and this is a fact that no one who studys this matter neutrally and unbiasedly regulated by this insurance law can deny. Another law that Mrs Kalanovic has not said a single word and we find it completely inappropriate, because it is once again important and important matter, is the law on amendments and additions to the Act on the takeover of stock companies. Here we come back to a similar conclusion as we came to the previous law. In the light of the law, it is stated that the basic Act on the takeover of stock companies, I quote, allowed domestic banks to be taken over by the so-called foreign banks. An investor. To translate this into concrete and clear -- allowing the sale of Serbian banks to banks from the Western part of the EU. Today, because of this, we come back to the same conclusion, we have the biggest interest in Europe, not in the EU, but in Europe and across the continent, which is completely incomprehensible at the moment when you have a real wave of laws on bank taxation in Hungary, Slovakia, Spain, even France. We simply don't see why the government of Mr. Cvetkovic, the vice president, would not show a kind of minimal courage that it shows, for example. Mr. Orban in Hungary, who is the prime minister of an EU Member State, I see no reason why so-called "introduction" could not be introduced. A transition tax that would help those funds from the sector that is the only income, which is the banking sector, to those who need it most, which are our pensioners, our students, our students, people who need health care. We see no reason not to, unless there are some pressures or some kind of obligation towards the EU, but we do not want to go into it. It's something to show in the next period. Also, in the light of the law on the takeover of stock companies, the legislator states that the law is based on the Company Act. It's the law that was here almost and that we discussed. It is stated and we see that, within this point, we have a change of the Business Society Act again. It is said to be important changes, that the law on business societies, only a few months after the adoption and publication of the official messenger, came into the situation that it must be changed. How is that possible? How is possible when it is explained in this law that experts from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development have participated in the draft law, it is the bank that is trying to take over our last Serbian bank, the Commercial Bank and experts from us. friendly Germany. We have come to the fact that these expensive-paid experts from Germany who pay citizens of the Republic of Serbia from the budget, to draft this company law, were unable to make a law that could have worked for a few months, and you admit, in the light of these changes to the laws on companies, that this law must change. It's not some minor change, it's not about one thing, but we have 25 members here, they have to change even though that law worked so on. Experts from Germany and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This is a scandal. So we're paying someone from Germany who came here on a tourist trip, someone from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development who has who knows what motives to do it, whether it's taking over the Commercial Bank, I don't know, it's a topic for a second debate, and we're paying from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and experts who haven't been able to make a law that could have worked for a few months, and we don't have a change here on the agenda of the Law on Economic Companies that has 25 members, which is a complete scandal. Again, the SRS is completely against the EU. In this respect, we are a single party, and we believe that even if they gave up the kidnapping of KIM, in an economically bad way for Serbia to be an EU member, but we follow this legislation to see where it has the most negative effects on the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. We have come up with a scandalous fact that, in the light of the law on the takeover of stock companies, about Article 2 where a nonxus, a legal relationship with the EC Directive, 2004-25, writes the EC and that on Cyrillic. What does the EC mean? Whether it is the European Community, whether it is the European Union, the European Economic Community or whether it means that it is someone who does not know the difference between the European Community, the European Union, the Serbian and English languages and translates as it is written in English in Serbian. It's a scandal. This means that someone is completely illiterate, someone who doesn't know the basics of English language, writes such a bill. Explain to me, I really don't know what the EC means. Is that an EZ, an EU or something third? It's like someone wrote it, not with their hands, but with their legs. I say again, we as a party that is against the EU as a whole, not only because of the kidnapping of KIM, but also for legal and economic reasons, think this is a scandal. This is someone who doesn't know the basics of English, someone who doesn't know what's going on in the EU, someone who doesn't know that the Lisbon Treaty has been passed or someone who's strayed, whether these are German experts or experts from the European Bank for Development, it's a question for you and for Mrs Kalanovic, not for us who are against the EU as a whole. Also in the light of the law on the takeover of stock companies, it is said that the law will also enter into force after the publication in the "Official Messenger", when sublegal acts are adopted, in fact, acts to be adopted by the Securities Commission and the Central Register. This is where we get the basic problem in so-called. adoption of the so-called European law, which is that it is inapplicable in a legal sense in the Republic of Serbia. You can pass, if I am not mistaken, about 200 laws since 2008, you can pass even more laws, as the Republic of Macedonia has done, but cannot be applied, because not only are these different legal and economic systems, but the report from the fulfilment of the national programme for the integration of the Republic of Serbia into the EU shows that more than 40% of the EU law is inapplicable because they do not adopt sublegal acts. It is a fact and you can say that it is a modern legal process, that it is something that will help the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We claim otherwise. Not only because of the terrible economic consequences that will leave this harmonisation of something that is unnatural for the Republic of Serbia, but because of one single fact that sublegal acts are not able to monitor the megalomanic political and all other ambitions of the current government and the Republic of Serbia that wants to enter the EU without an alternative in legal, economic and political terms. Convince me they're sublegal acts, to follow the laws in that sense of adoption. We've seen it's over 90% so-called. European laws passed this assembly. But, on the other hand, the report on the implementation of the NIP, which you are referring to in these reasons of the law, shows that simply sublegal acts are not applicable, European law is not applicable in the Republic of Serbia, and that is the fact. Whatever the propaganda may be, you can share the European Office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia another two million euros, at the expense of those who need that money, you can strengthen that propaganda even more, you can have all the media, but the next is the truth – the EU is, in an economic, legal and political sense, bad for the Republic of Serbia. We can argue, unlike you, to prove it, without any scarcity, without any accusation or any reminder of what happened 50 years ago, 100 years or 20 years ago. So the argument is on our side, and that's what these bill proposals show. Also, that this is true and that what we say is fully justified and that it has a basis for right, economy and policy also shows a table of compliance with Directive 2004-2005, some kind of "EC", probably a European community, and I suppose it's a European community, but it says here the EC. What is it, I don't know, but it's simply that it states that this directive or instruction, more correctly in a legal sense, is not in line with Serbian laws, and it is written on pages 61 and 62, or it is partially harmonised, and that is stated on page 69. In the context of the law on the takeover of stock companies, we would like to point out another fact. You here are passing a kind of law that will allow for the continued takeover of Serbian banks and we are concerned that, above all, it is the Commercial Bank, the only serious bank that has remained in the majority ownership of our state and our citizens, at the moment that you so-called. The partners of the Western part of the EU and the United States are fully acting in the opposite way and performing a kind of nationalisation in the financial sector. You know for a fact that the freshest example was the largest Belgian bank, Dextley, which was purchased, in fact a four billion-euro control package, taken over by the Belgian state. So while the old EU members are taking over and returning their banking sector from private hands, from the hands of speculators, greeners and lenders, here you have a completely opposite concept. Here you have the fact that the Prime Minister and the Government and all those who approve of such a thing defend a neoliberal concept, which essentially failed after 2008. I'm saying again, you can give another 100% more of your propaganda to the European Association Office, Djelic, anyone, but these are the facts. Also, you have another indicator that tells us that Serbia is simply a paradise for speculators, for lenders, for greeners from the EU, and that is the case of the Unicredit Bank, which is known to all of us and which operates on the market of the Republic of Serbia. The Unicredit Bank closes its branches across Europe, even in Bulgaria and Romania. He fires several thousand workers, sells his property, and in almost all our neighbouring countries, in all of Eastern Europe, but, behold, only in Serbia does not reduce income, because you have the fact that Serbia is a paradise for speculators, for greeners from the EU or for those who destroy the standard of our citizens. This is the fact that the EU is bad for the standard of our citizens, for all those people in our country who have to pay these interest rates that are amazing. I'll give you another example, and you certainly know that the average interest rate in the Republic of Serbia in 2010 was about 12%. At the same time in Germany, in a country that is an EU engine, which has a GDP hundreds of times bigger than ours, or in a country that is ahead of Kosovo's abduction and shooting at our citizens at KIM, you have the fact that the average interest rate there was 3% in 2010. So, in Serbia 12%, and in Germany 3%. It's called exploiting. The EU is a form of exploitation by Germany and France of such countries as we, the poor, such as Romania, Bulgaria or countries whose EU accession has done no good. I will give you an example of Bulgaria, which may be the best example, which is completely adequate, there are 147 euros or almost twice as much as in the Republic of Serbia. So, the European path is a failure. The European road is a dead end. In that sense, we believe that, as far as these laws on the takeover of stock companies are concerned, you should be much more careful, given that you need to preserve, not only insurance companies such as the Danube Insurance, which is ours, which is the state, which is all Serbian citizens, and that's not something that needs to be alienated just because they're looking for so-called. Friends from the IMF, rather than keeping this little left in the banking sector, and above all, I mean the Commercial Bank. There is also an example of economists like Milan Kovacevic, who has nothing to do with the SRS, even more favoured by the government, who says that through simple fictitious, paraphrase, foreign bank service contracts, Western banks transfer profits from Serbia to the EU, i.e. towards the Western EU countries. It is also disturbing to know that almost 70% of loans in the Republic of Serbia have a foreign exchange clause or are in euros, which shows that the government simply does not defend its currency, that it does not believe in its currency and that these are simply the consequences of such a masochistic economic policy. Finally, as far as the agency is concerned, it is again one thing that is more than problematic, because during the government of Mr. Cvetkovic we have a double, with over 60 agencies we have come to around 130 and that is something that cannot be justified. You must know that in the Czech Republic and Slovakia you have a single-digit number of agencies. This is something to think about when you refer to the procedure of such laws, which are neither in line with European law, nor are they in line with the expectations and standard of living of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, nor are they in line with the real situation in the insurance sector, in the banking sector. We think that things should simply be placed on sound grounds and simply in that sense you stop the doggem that the EU has no alternative. He has an alternative, and it's known to be our old historical and economic friends from the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64552	The word would have been given to Marina Tomman, but she's not in the O.R., so I give the word to Mr. Peter Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers. As for the SRS, when it comes to organisations and the work of a number of agencies, we have the view that the Agency for Economic Registers should be abolished and returned to the register of economic courts, because economic courts lead all disputes in the area of economy. Furthermore, economic courts, it is indisputable, gentlemen of the ministry, to run bankruptcy companies. In the case of registration in the register, the court shall examine the authenticity, credibility of the documents on the basis of which the registration is to be made in the register. That's not gonna be the case with the agency. If so, it will be superficial, but the court has the right to refuse registration unless the conditions in terms of the law and other regulations for enrolment are met. But the agencies will accept documents, they can be fake, they can be forged, they can be submitted by people who have a partner society, one submitted today, the other submitted after seven days, based on other data, and you create a disorder in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It is a miracle that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposer, and you ministry gentlemen don't even care about the authority of the Republic of Serbia. That's what you can see from your bill of law, which you delivered, they look more like the rules of hunting societies. If you add both hunting and fishing and when you add fire companies, in all of Serbia, there are not as many as you have in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, an agency with multiplied bureaucracy for the last ten years, because you know well, when you came to power in 2000, Serbia has employed 12,000 officials in the authorities of the administration, and now Serbia has about 30,000 officials in the authorities of the administration. I wouldn't have any objection that your clerks would stand out of their pockets and have their dad and mom support them, that their dad and mom buy their offices and cabinets, that their dad and mom buy their cars, that their dad and mom get their allowance, and that some of them would spend on kebabs for six months and four million, and five more times that in a year. So, Dad and Mom, if you need your clerks to go on tours, let your dad and mom take their allowance out of their pocket for a trip to Europe. And you don't need anything but a white Schengen visa, to give them a white Schengen visa, and they're going to go on mom and dad's expense. But how they don't go about the cost of mom and dad, and I told you, during the socialist government, 12,000 officials either, and now you have 30,000. Imagine how much this burden is on the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia. Be careful how that system didn't work, so all it took was to bring down Slobodan Milosevic and his authority, and you to come and share with the ministries only compliments and to share the allowance and budgets of the Republic of Serbia for your officials and your friends and godfathers. Now, gentlemen of the Ministry, what's new and what's needed? You have dared to propose to the National Assembly an amendment to the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers and you propose to amend Article 4. When you see Article 4 of the current law, and what you're proposing, there seems to be no visible difference. You've rewritten a valid Article 4 that has 16 points in Article 1 and it matches this proposal. I may be wrong, but here, if I'm wrong, you can convince me. Let's move on, in Article 4. The Agency runs the law established registers as a single centralised database and that, now let's go back to what number it is. The register of economic operators, how many employees and how many will be there, how long it will take for the executives here, how long it will take for the secretary here, how long it will take for the cook and how much money from the budget to be taken to run this register. Is this register going to run one face or more faces or is it going to run one formational army department? Second, the register of hostage rights on immovable matters and rights. How busy is it going to be? If there's gonna be one perpetrator, it's kind of bearable, and if there's a lot of them, then the taxpayers will get hurt. Registrar of Financial Lissing, Register of Public Opinions, Register of Associations, Register of Foreign Associations, Register of Measures and Encouragement of Regional Development, Register of Chambers, Register of Tourism, Register of Financial Reports and Data on the Bonity of Legal Persons and Entreprenencies, Register of Banks and Foundations, Registrar of Foreign Delegations and Foundations, Register of Associations and Associations in the field of sports, Registrar of Court Prohibitions and other Registers of Certain Law. Gentlemen of the ministry, a fellow magistrate Mirovic told you that there are 130 or more agencies only on the republican level, but there are five more at the city and municipal level. What do we do now? Are we going to rob taxpayers? Are we going to make their lives miserable? This kills taxpayers and citizens of our country, robs each other, you'll agree. Gentlemen of the Ministry, it's not the two of you by name. No, it's someone else's fault that we decided to go to the EU, and that EU won't. The SRS says – thank you, we do not need you, because we have been in Europe for hundreds of years and, on the other hand, we are still in Europe today. The imaginary Europe is selling fog, but as you can see, the people no longer accept it. Like I said, it's not your fault, but someone did. Who's this guy who's designing this big administration? This administration is bigger than Chinese. China has about a billion and a half inhabitants, and you know how many Serbias there are, I won't repeat for any known reason. Serbia has 10 million and some inhabitants. When you divide this, you see that Serbia has the largest administration on the globe, but at whose expense? It's about the cost of the citizens. Citizens are out of a job. Gentlemen of the government, you have introduced tuition payments, healthcare payments, and you know that before 2000, health care was primarily free, schooling was free, but now there is nothing without a yellow bank, and this government has turned to the yellow bank of taxpayers and is crumbling their money. The budget will almost be in front of the MPs and the National Assembly will deliver it to the MPs. The question is how many administrations are there to leave the agencies alone, there are too many. You wouldn't need one for me. There shouldn't be 500 cars in the government, there might be 5.6 cars: the president of the assembly, the Prime Minister and the president of the state and two, three secretaries. What do you think? There are about 50 cars in Panceva City Hall, and how many public enterprises? Who's gonna pay for that? You have administrations, you have agencies, you have funds, you have directors, you have institutions, you have services, you have inspectorates, you have offices, you have advice, you have no idea what else you have. You have eight thousand other beneficiaries of the budget. These agencies are burdened by the budget, and therefore we Serbian radicals have more confidence in the court than in the agency. The agencies are a private matter. All these things I've listed, all these different institutes. It's all half private. All of this has produced a huge cost to our citizens. I would agree that you have formed an agency for the production of raspberries, blackberries, blueberries, vegetables, livestock, but to be sectors but within one agency, and to move these pairs from here to this part of the budget of farmers, to help farmers get at least two, three thousand tractors from the country, because we also have the production of tractors, so that these farmers are plowing this rich Serbian country, to produce for Serbia's market, for themselves and for export. This government has been banned. What makes the EU clear to us, we are mostly in that part, we will never enter the EU. If we don't do anything out of spite, we spray radicals, because they are to the harm of our citizens and to the harm of our country. Well, you see how much trouble and hajka and well-being was, let's introduce a white Schengen visa. Gentlemen, who can give their son or daughter 1,000 euros to go to Europe and European countries? Without 1,000 euros, they don't go there, because there's nothing waiting for them on the plate, they have to pay there, because they're yelling at our citizens. What SRS MP Mr. Dejan Mirovic, the master of science, said to you that banks are robbing Serbia's state. The robbers, and they will one day pick up all this to suck up and board ships and planes and escape. That's what real hosts shouldn't allow. So, the cost of the state must be reduced, the agencies will cut we Serbian radicals come to power and as soon as we reach the power of the administration must be reduced. We want power, and we can show these Serbian citizens that we are able and that we know that we rule the Republic of Serbia, more successful than many others who praise themselves here and who are offered on the market that they can promise this country alive and keep everything else. No, we Serbian radicals want to take responsibility and we want to show that this country can be better organised to make good laws. Here, gentlemen of the ministry, answer my question – why did you propose to amend the law in such a short time frame? So do you know when the ministries come here and they brag about how we passed 800 laws? Are those good laws? Secondly, the law has not yet entered into force, seeking amendments and additions, not you, but government promoters and law-proposing resolutions. It hasn't been three months yet, we're looking for changes and additions, so well if you want to unite, bring our legislation and our regulations into line with European countries of continental law or American or any other. First you study the parallel right, so make suggestions for a good law to come out. Not a single law, gentlemen, in the last 10 years that has come before parliament, in detail we Serbian radicals are studying them, preparing for debates in the Assembly, but none of them are good for you. No wonder after 15, 20 days or a month, you say, look, this isn't good we have to change. Article 4 of this bill is an example and secondly you say that this is some law that needs to be improved, which will improve the conditions of our citizens here? None. We believe in the judiciary. The judiciary is mutilated but we still have confidence and we think that courts should be better organized but we must trust them, not half-private institutions like this. So, gentlemen in front of Milos, don't go out with these papers and these rules, don't go out. You can boast and share compliments when you come to the cabinet now and say that you were in the Assembly today and not that the MPs spoke, and some have praised and some have said that they would vote for our laws, and they would be hard-core radicals, they say – we will not vote. You know why we won't? This is no good for you, this is just one toilet paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64554	The authorised representative wants a word. There's a word Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64555	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, we have five system laws before us today. The explanation we could get from the minister is very brief and does not maintain the actual essence of everything that is passed under this law. The Serbian Radical Party is absolutely against the fact that in the last days when we should discuss the budget, or yesterday we should adopt the budget, but it is not there. He was due to come to the assembly debate on November 1st and consider on committees that we have insight into each item in the budget, that we can make measurement decisions when agreeing on boards, and also later in plenary, that we have a basic vision of where to invest, where to spend and from which sources of revenue will be drawn funds and to see how to help citizens and businesses in terms of reducing certain obligations. On the other hand, to suggest certain revenues from some other sources of income that are now uninvolved, which should be covered. It's not going to happen. We'll make a budget at five to twelve, almost 12.05. We don't know when we'll get it, the deadlines are over, etc. This violates not only the Budget Law, we break many laws, we kill parliamentaryism, we kill people with it, we simply show through the entire system of budgeting how inconsistencies we are, how unprincipled we are and how we don't care about the basic principle. What's agreed in the west for three, four months, and there's no alignment here. I don't know if yesterday was the government's phone session or if it was a normal session. I guess that's over in half an hour. Now, take one ministry that spends 100 to 150 million, billions of dinars, a billion, two euros, based on his proposal, without consulting, without agreement, we have left simply some flows in the financial sphere to individuals who abuse it. We know this practice, and the abuse is that we are not discussing it for a month, two, as much as we should about the Budgetary System Act and the Budget Law, according to real needs. In the afternoon part of this debate, we are discussing four system laws in total. We have mostly alterations and additions and we have a whole law that shouldn't be here and here's just a few sentences, it's the law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers. Why didn't we need him? This should be a single law on the way, conditions and registration procedure in the Agency, not for business registers, the Registers Agency, because besides businesses it was responsible for as it deals exclusively with the economy. So it has to have a united level of business it deals with, and it's not just business, it's some other business, it's registers that are all covered by other spheres, etc., so it's not appropriate. We're going to lose a lot, we're going to put it in some plane one minute, so we're going to change some new ones again, etc., just because we didn't see the moment we entered the registration process reform. We've got 15 of them now. In three years, we made one organ that was small, which was doing complex jobs, a serious organ. Is it in the agency system or is it a state body? Here, fellow Jojic has a lot of judicial experience, he suggests a court. In any case, the court is one institution that exudes quality and the position of the SRS is that it should be returned to court, that it runs all these registers. Now it's out of date, but I can say that we're lucky that we don't have 15 registration agencies, for every registry special agency, special people, special secretaries, special lawyers, etc. Great, that's a great solution because it could've been a hundred times worse with a government like this. I'll look back on the provisions of this law later. They're important in terms of creating conditions to get a single register. There are certain gaps that we will talk about when we speak according to the amendments, when in particular we will consider certain provisions. What's most important in this set of laws is the Business Society Act. When we MPs read what we get from the government, we don't have to criticise as an opposition anything more than the government's position and the government's explanation. It's quite enough to show how many mistakes the government makes, how many individual state bodies are involved in preparing these laws. Here, the Business Society Act says – it took effect in June 2011, and starts to apply on 1 February 2012. So, he took legal action six months ago, here's a change and a supplement. It further says – given that the law prescribed the delayed application of the law, stakeholders have been familiar with the provisions of the new law over the past few months. What does the interested party mean? Who's the interested party? Well, that's what you have to say in an explanation. They're economic operators. The question is what business entities are, which are other associations that suggest certain solutions after the law is passed. Why are those who have created policy in this area when reform is made, the adoption of this law is a reform in a particular area and it is appropriate that that working group that participates in the creation, in the summation of all matter from that area, to collect all relevant data, and the comparative right and domestic legislation and judicial practice, and all that is known from that area and then through a public debate, through dialogue, through the face-to-face of opinion, so it is better to lose a year to reach a quality law that will be valid for five, ten, twenty years. Well, let's take Western legislation, let's take English legislation, and today we have a situation that 200 years in law enforcement is a certain law. We do this -- let's do Jovo again, but in this case, for these interested parties, there are certain forces that create this matter from the shadows. They're lobbyists that match certain legal solutions. They're tycoons that don't suit a certain formulation legally, so we can't find an adequate face in the ministry that's going to get us through a thing or the minister isn't very fond of us, so he's in that second camp, so let's go through some solution that's going to suit us. We find someone in the government a little higher or president of the state, so he says – change it, it doesn't fit, etc., and then everyone raises their hands. If the President of the State is concerned, this changes without question, etc. Then after that, some interested parties come back, and they change it again and again, and we go on forever. What's he saying next? Amendments and additions to the Law on Business Societys have arisen as a result of the apportioning of stakeholders to certain ambiguities which the provisions of the new law could challenge in practice. Look, this sentence reflects the real situation. Those who need to have practice and to translate it into the law, they don't write that law, they write again from the west that we pay fat and then we get to the law without professional analysis. Here in the assembly procedure, including procedures in ministries and government, laws go through at least 50 lawyers. I'm telling you that no one opens them and no one reads them till the end, and I'm not talking about studying what legal repercussions they're going to produce in practice to apply each member and each of the provisions of that or each of them stuck in a certain rule, the legal regulation that we're making. The proposer of this law says – the amendments and additions to this law have arisen as a result of the apportioning of stakeholders to certain ambiguities that the provisions of the new law could challenge in practice. So, the competent ministries, the government and other state authorities don't follow that. The important thing is that we got the law, the law was passed, it's got the material that we're processing, we're still not interested in. The president of the assembly says we've passed 800 laws. From the point of view of the President of the Assembly, that's right. The assembly is here to pass the laws. Those who propose laws are responsible for it, but they don't answer to us. It's absurd. It is important for us to satisfy the EU because it requires this law, that law, that you will reform this in one way or another, etc. And then grunk, just bring, who asks you if it's in practice enforceable or not enforceable. Again, the president of the assembly is at least responsible for the application of all of this, responsible for the ministries and other state bodies. It goes on to say – some ambiguities have arisen as a result of the adoption of a large number of amendments. How is it possible, if the law is high-quality, to adopt a larger number of amendments? It's possible, we're witnessing all of this. In practice, we have 30 to 35 percent of each of the proposed laws that we amend in amendment. Who is he who prepares such laws that are adopted here? Who is the one who has prepared the law to allow himself this luxury to adopt a large number of amendments that are not in line, which are unresponsible to each other, which are contrary to each other because the stakeholders have said they are not responding and we have to change that. See, that's our practice. But the most devastating practice is that certain political parties that are subject to the pressures of certain tycoons and individual lobbies, push certain legal solutions, go with amendments, we know, in practice we've had a lot of cases, push through something, that most of them here adopt, 126 is a rule, and then when we have an application, we see what problems are in practical application. Who loses the most here? He loses his country the most. She's the biggest loser. She's maimed in such situations. Who's responsible for this? Nobody. That's gotta change. An even more devastating situation about certain economic flows, that mentors from the west come to us and give lectures. Among other things, IMF representatives came and said that, from the beginning of the crisis, around 400,000 people have lost their jobs to this day. Did any of the representatives of the government say – no, that's not true? Why do they have that information because we don't have it? Why do they have the right to interfere with our relationship, if we've led such a policy of firing, it's a policy of firing, etc.? I guess that's our sovereign right. It's not our sovereign right. They're conjecture. So they make the rules. They say -- this is reform law, you have to do it that way and that way. Then as the judges say, what you did is very bad. They do not say that what we did on the basis of their orders, but are placed only in the position of the judge, a mentor who says as small children – no, no, 400 thousand etc, without talking. We bend, we keep quiet. That's power, that's our power. Is that really $400,000 or not? How come it's the right of someone to scold a Serb, first of all? But the government allows it. It's an unserious power, and it's mostly socially irresponsible, because it's the fact that so many people have lost their jobs. What do they say next? Vensan Dežer, a representative of the European Commission, says -- public procurement accounts for between 20% and 25% of public procurement funds, somewhere between 3.5 billion euros and 4 billion euros. Where did they get that information? How did they get the information to interfere with the internal affairs of the sovereign state? What's he saying next? More than 10 billion euros have been washed through public procurement since 2000. He roses this power. First of all, you're going to do it like this, you're going to do it like this, and so on. So many laws, so on and so forth, all of this is handed over in writing, all of it is done, and finally it says, "No, no, you're stealing, you're stealing, you're stealing, and so on." It's such a power. Such power must fall. People have to change that. Let's get back to business. It's a disaster. We can make hundreds of laws. The main thing is the economic climate. This country does not create an economic climate for companies. When we talk and standardise work, the functioning of companies, we need to talk about this economic climate in any way, in an economic, financial, fiscal sense. You're out of status, you're out of status. It's the easiest thing to do. In every society, it's the easiest thing to do. All this after that is 95% to create conditions for a company to survive. It's like life. It's easy to make a child, but it remains to live, to grow, to grow old healthy and normal. We don't create these conditions. We create a child and then leave it to the verse, leave it to a free market where that child cannot survive, there are no conditions. Why aren't there any conditions? We've broken the market, we've disabled the normal functioning of that market. No sentence in this law on the creation of preconditions for normal functioning of the work of a company, that's the matter of that law. But here's that law before, and there's the one and there, and there's not a single sentence about normal work, function, etc. Is it matter of some other law in the field of financial sphere, accounting, accounting, etc. It belongs to some other laws, but we have to do it too. What is our practice in working and operating companies? Today and we don't have, the best you can do right now is to say, you who run the register, and the inspection authorities that they can't deliver the right analysis, neither you can, nor you know how much they really live and do business, because you don't have complete documentation. Does the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development have an economy? There isn't. Is there a Chamber of Commerce? There isn't. Do they have professional associations? They don't. Does the employers' union? There's no one here. Who's the most responsible here? Inspects that should be controlled, etc. and those that create legal rules, regulations and that they are based on their experience, because they are directly enforcers of control, on the spot see all system failures, system failures that they must detect and react to on-site, transfer their powers and eventually stop in the tax administration. Here's the IRS data. Tens of thousands of blocked companies, billions in dinars, billions in euros are blocked by these companies. In 2007, the foundation of the blockade of companies is 180 billion and you account for the corresponding interest of 90 billion. So 270 billion dinars. In 2008, 220 increased again, from some 50 and something came to 60,000 subjects, a wider spectrum and companies and local communities and associations of citizens and other entities that have certain debt-trust relations, etc., which caused the tax administration's reaction. In 2008, the U.S. 220 plus interest 115, 335; 2009 465; 2010 555 billion in the tenth month. This year is likely to reach 700 billion, or seven billion euros. Where's the end? The end must be defined by legal regulations. Which one? Here's the law. Everything that's rotten needs to go by speedy procedure. We stop them through certain provisions, let them live. What's naturally died, what doesn't work for six months, a year, should go away. To make it go away, we need to create preconditions to live as long as he lives, to enable him to live, especially in a period of crisis. In 2007 and 2008, a major crisis, no serious move by the state to stop these flows, because we in the economic sphere have a growing and larger number of blocked enterprises, these monetary amounts, see how it grows. From 2004 to 2011, from 270 billion to 700 billion. I don't have time to read the duty, so the losses, the accumulated losses of the economy, etc. Then you can see that we don't have an objective economy. Why don't we have it? Because she's inequitable, she can't work, because she's insolvent, because she's over-indebted, because there's no help from anyone who needs to help her. Who? The state, the state institutions must help, because it is exposed to all the evils of this world. We've raised our hands because they're advocating us with such a story. Who? Those of the West are advocating such a story, that it's a free market where everyone has equal rights, and they don't have equal rights. Why? Because those who come to this market are freed from customs, they are freed from certain barriers that we have in these countries, they have subsidies and credits from their countries, they have far lower interest rates when they take over and withdraw credit lines from their banks. We can't compete under such conditions. What do you expect? Expecting in 2012, with this law we won't get anything. These are cosmetic changes that nothing in practical performance will bring, except that in some things it may speed up the registration procedure. What's our business? I'll read here some indicators that I got from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, age of equipment, devices, tools, etc. in industry. Textile industry, average age 35 years, machine industry 34 years, food industry 27 years, chemical industry 28 years, construction industry 30 years. Look what we're working with. How do we compete with individual Western economic operators that have the latest technology? Not at all. How can these people survive now? They can't survive. They can't survive and they die naturally, but we do nothing to save them. Here is an indicator of the volume of industrial production – in 1990 base 100%, the largest volume of industrial production. Certain preconditions are being created, at that time certain reforms, etc., and the Serbian economy was almost double compared to the economy in 2011. So in 1990, basically 100%, 1995, 44% of those base 100%, in 2000, 43%, in 2002 44%, in 2004 46%, in 2006, 48%, in 2008 50%, in 2009, we returned to 40%, 2011 to expect the plan is 46%, but if we're at 40% - 41% we're gonna hit and we're overjoyed. These indicators speak of the government's seriousness and government's approach to this area. What else is the problem that must be present here, both in this law and in the budget and in everything that you will bury us by the end of the year? Various charges, fees and the separation of economic operators. By 2009, a total of 65 different contributions were made to the economic operator. In 2010, 17 other types of taxis, fees, and mostly local taxis. That's a total of 82 charges. This is the termology of the Union of Employers, intruding, because it's really imposed, one obligation that you have to measure, etc. Remember the one in the local self-government and says, "Get rid of this one, as if it were important; they live; they work; strike at them." State authorities and institutions, both the tax authorities and those bodies paying for other obligations, etc., and finally, when the sum of the sum is 82 leva. In 2011, following amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government, some obligations have been lifted, some will be abolished, but will again remain somewhere between 60 and 75 different types of giving. This kind of economy we're talking about can't stand it, and she's gonna have to die, because she just can't stand everything she's got going on. What I must point out as chairman of the Committee on Industry, and on several occasions I have spoken here, certain guidelines and trade unions, and the Union of Employers and Chamber of Commerce, appeals, most notably unions that feel the problems, among other things, and in written form, we have given it to the Ministry of Finance, and to the Government and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. We asked them to help economic operators who are still alive, once large business giants, such as "IMT", "Minel Trafo", "Stat", "Petar Drapshin" – Mladenovac, "Majevica Holding" – Bačka Palanka, "Cables" – Jagodina, "The Rakovica Industry", etc., around 150 companies that are in restructuring. What does restructuring mean? The restructuring process is when the state finds a new strategic partner for this business, when it wants to prepare it for privatisation or reconstruction, and when this company exports from existing forms, organisational, financial and technological, it receives some new procedures and when the rebirth comes to the market, qualified for economic struggle. All those who have entered the restructuring are currently in the blockade phase. The state has given up. There's no buyer for privatisation. There is no means of funding certain production. There are no new technologies in production. There are no buyers of their goods, etc. It's one general camp, a general collapse of huge complexes, mostly in the metal sphere. Their biggest problem isn't that either, because people survive and manage, they happen in different ways, the biggest problem is created by state and state authorities, and that's the judicial authorities. This one interpretation of the Greater cassation court has enabled the blocking of accounts, the blocking of current accounts based on some of the procedures previously conducted, which are now in the right sense justifiable and which have been carried out. All these judgments are now sitting at the expense of these companies and companies are blocked and as such they are out of life. We also spoke on behalf of the Committee on Industry, we spoke on behalf of the union and the Chamber of Commerce, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-16-0.u64556	Time. Finish it. I'm done. Thank you. I thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and no one who has not exercised his right under Article 96 has reported. Rules of Procedure, allow me to conclude a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of today's agenda. We'll continue our work on Tuesday, December 20, at 10.00 hours. I thank the Members of Parliament. I thank the representatives of the Agency for Business Registers, Mr. Obradovic and Magova.
