ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54499	Dear Members of Parliament, given that today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16:00 to 19.00. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, by letter dated 27 April 2011, been in agreement with Article 205(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, informed that the following members of the Government were unable to attend today's session, at which the government was asked parliamentary questions: Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior; Verica Kalanovic, Deputy Prime Minister; Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister; Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice; Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education and Science; Snezana Samardžić Marković, Minister of Youth and Sports; Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning; Predrag Marković, Minister of Culture, Information and Information Society and Srdjan Sretkovic, Minister of Faith and Diaspora, with which there is the possibility that the information I have given you, that some of the members of the Government may still join us from 16.00. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP shall have the right to ask a parliamentary question to the individual Minister or Government, under their jurisdiction, on the basis of Article 204(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated, as defined in Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The presentation of the MP asking questions shall not take longer than three minutes, in accordance with Article 204(4). Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly shall warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority, pursuant to Article 204(6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Government's oral question, i.e. the minister, must be answered orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked, pursuant to Article 206(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. So, the MP asks for the longest three minutes, a member of the government who has been asked a question to explain the oral answer or gives a promise of written form of response, the MP commentes for a maximum of three minutes or asks an additional question, and, after receiving a reply to the additional question, has the right to declare his answer within a maximum of two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Article 216. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Accordingly, I ask all MPs to submit applications for questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, so that, in turn, the first word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We are moving on to the position of the sending questions First in a row of the registered Members of the People's Parliament is MP Riza Halimi, and after that, the MP Marina Toman will have the right to ask questions. MP Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54500	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia, decided on 9 April 2009 to organise the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities' co-ordination body, which was to ensure the achievement of the 2001 government programme's objectives. The objectives of this programme envisioned the economic revitalisation of this area, the integration of Albanians into the state system, the establishment of security and peace, freedom of movement and the return of displaced people. In the previous two years, however, the Coordination Body has not dealt with the most difficult and most sensitive problems in life. That is why the current economic situation is much more difficult than in 2001, when the government's programme on crisis resolution in this area was adopted, so that the unemployment rate is significantly above record and dramatic 70%. Instead of returning displaced, due to the disastrous economic situation and the non-recognition of university diplomas acquired in Kosovo, Albania and Macedonia, Albanians are forced to leave this area massily, with only 500 Albanians left in the municipality of Medvedje from the previous 5,500, and a similar dramatic process is under way in the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac. The coordination body is still not dealing with the underlying life problems of this area, in addition to the fact that the government's decision has not been implemented, which means that the Coordination Body has continued to work according to the old, no financial plan and no operational programmes, for the reasons that no bodies have been established and do not function or extend the composition of the Coordination Body, provided for by this Government Decision. In fact, we've had improvisations of the work of the president and service of the Co-ordination Body, and legitimate representatives of Albanians, and MPs and municipal executives, have served only as democratic decor so far. So now I ask the question – what will the Government do to finally start applying this decision in practice because it has been two years? Then, since it is easy to conclude that Minister Markovic, as chairman of the Coordination Body, is too busy with other obligations, why does the government not consider setting up a new President of the Coordination Body, again from the government, who would have worked more seriously to implement this decision since 2009, and of course, by returning to that basic programme from 2001, when the serious objectives were set before the Coordination Body? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54501	Do any of the members of the government want to respond? Yeah. ) Bozidar Djelic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54502	Mr. Halimi, I think and rightly believe that in every opportunity to ask questions you ask similar questions. We in the government are very aware of the difficult economic and social situation and in that part of our country. However, you will admit that in the last two years the body, where there have been no representatives of the Albanian minority, has functioned and today has representatives that allow for a dose of representativeness and to solve accumulated problems. Since 2000, according to the estimates presented by Minister Markovic, whom you mentioned, as regards municipalities covered by this body, it is estimated that something from domestic, foreign sources, beyond the budgets has reached some 50-60m euros in additional funds to address infrastructure and other problems. It certainly is not enough, but it still shows that the Republic of Serbia is giving specific attention to that part of our country. I can only say that my colleague Markovic is very regularly reporting to the government on what is going on and we hope that cooperation will be restored and strengthened both in the weeks and months to come, so in that part of our country, where it is true that the unemployment rate is high, where there are problems, things will go better. The second element is, of course, the opening of opportunities for education, the opening of a department, if I'm not mistaken, for economy and law, and there are plans to strengthen this university presence, so that young people have directly close to their own homes the possibility of schooling. We know that there are problems, we know that there are not enough textbooks and what is provided for by law, in Albanian, and that has to be solved. There are a series of issues that need to be resolved, but what is certain is that democratically elected representatives like you and others who are in that part of our country, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should sit down and work and solve these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54503	National MP Riza Halimi will be entitled to three minutes for an additional question. I apologize to Parliamentarian Marina Toman, I read your name with a slip before it was your turn. I apologize again. The next registered speaker will be the MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, and MP Riza Halimi has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54504	Mr. Djelic, you mentioned, if I'm not mistaken, that 50m euros in the previous two years have been invested, and I have no such information. I know about the period 2001 to 2004, but I'm not talking about that period. I am talking about what we agreed two years ago, when we both signed Minister Markovic and the OSCE ambassador and I on behalf of the Albanian community. I'm talking about the fact that in these two years, we're still... Actually, we weren't decor before. We, as presidents of the municipalities, worked with the President of the Coordination Body, and now we're part of the Coordination Body and no one asks us anything. We're just a democratic decor. The bottom line is that all work is done through the service, which is an administrative structure that is growing and spending almost a quarter of the budget for the Coordination Body, and that we as legitimate representatives, or the president of municipalities or I, who have agreed to enter the Coordination Body, are absolutely not seeing our role, because we are not asked for anything. First, it's unsustainable. Secondly, the coordination body does not deal with problems such as economics, as the situation is now more difficult than ten years ago, when the government's programme is set. In the meantime, we had a catastrophic privatisation, and the Coordination Body had no role to play in it. It didn't interfere at all, as if it were something on Mars, not the areas the government was in charge of. I'm talking about that nothing seems to be done by solving the huge problems that people in the land zone have, or conditions are being allowed to return, and lately, the administration is being denied, and they're losing their right to personal documents, losing their right to residence in the last year or two days. I'm talking about the Co-ordination Body dealing with a theatre piece that went to four million dinars, and there was only one play shown in Bujanovac, and the rest was in Kikinda, Belgrade or other environments. Who were those four million given to? Instead of solving acute problems, I say, the unemployment rate is over 70%. I ask – if we wait this long, what is the function of the Coordination Body when the entire space is emptyed there? The country's security zone is almost out of population, and that trend is also going to other local communities. The question is whether the Coordination Body, whether the Government is behind a situation like this where we don't deal with the life problems of people in the area. That's my essential question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54505	The word has Božidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54506	Just to be clear. I've been talking about the past ten years, and we can only say that, although things are not perfect, in the last ten years, it's been a specific effort for our citizens of Albanian nationality to be involved in the state service. We had one statistic that ten years ago, if I'm not mistaken, only two or three representatives of Albanian nationality were in our police force, and now there were about 200-300 of them. There is also a intention to exist in that domain of that representativeness. What is certain is that the government of the Republic of Serbia will seek to solve through the Coordination Body, which must contribute, a large number of problems. You mentioned the problem of emptying that part of the territory. Unfortunately, it is also a general problem, which is not specific to one or another national minority or community. We have this similar problem in other municipalities of that part of our country, and I believe that one number of solutions will have to be specific, and the other part will cover all municipalities in the south. I am sure, in the end, that a colleague Markovic, as he told us, has not only an open door, but a great desire to continue working with you to solve a number of problems that we know exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54507	People's MP Riza Halimi has two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54508	You mentioned, Mr. Djelic, a multiethnic police project and no one disputed that this was the most important project ever done on that territory in those municipalities. It's visible, and I absolutely don't intend to argue with that. I also welcome that now 50 new officers will again be announced with a competition to be accepted. But I'm saying... , let's take the first decision of the government since last year to accept 63 new workers to achieve the objectives of the Co-ordination Body, and one of the three main objectives is the integration of Albanians. What happened in practice? In the past 10 months, a single customs competition has been reached, seven Serbs and five Albanians were accepted, and then the question of who is being integrated. I know that in customs and Serbs from Presevo are not employed but come from other backgrounds, but if we set the goal 11 years ago to integrate Albanians into state structures and 11 years are waiting and now a competition is being announced and more Serbs than Albanians are being hired again, then do we really want to integrate Albanians into state structures? Or does what the government made two years ago really work out, so it says - The Co-ordination Body should work to enable the effective participation of the Albanian community in the state social system? If I was an MP for two years trying in the Coordination Body and I couldn't come up with the expression, but only at the end, when the President and the Office of the Coordination Body do something and I just formally need to confirm something, then I feel that I am a decor, and absolutely nothing is essentially possible, and that legitimately elected representatives of Albanians in the field, what remains for other citizens? How do they integrate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54509	The word has a National MP, Siniša Stamenkovic. Three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54510	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers, on the basis of the authority of six MPs and on the basis of an agreement with the Regional Development Agency, I will ask a few questions to the Government's representative – when and under what circumstances will it carry out the suspension of the demographic exodus and the economic downturn of eastern Serbia, and when will the smooth development of the Republic be ensured throughout its territory, and above all through the urgent revitalisation and improvement of the travel network between our two most important corridors, Corridor 7 and Corridor 10, through eastern Serbia? The Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy – when and under what conditions will the Government of Serbia commit and develop or publish a regulation on public tender or concession competition for the opening of a commercial professional hydrogliser line to international waterway through the Danube, from Novi Sad, via Belgrade to Gerdap, or Kladova? A question for the Serbian government, on the basis of the demands of numerous NGOs and citizens of the municipality of Golubac and Velika Gradišče – what does the competent Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, as well as the Government of Serbia, take on account of the recovery of damages from continuing air, water and land pollution, flora and fauna, people and animals in the territory of these municipalities that have been coming back from Romania for years, from the dumps and devastation of the mines of Stara Moldova or Moldova Veca, in whose composition are very high illicit concentrations of heavy metals, lead, zinc, cadmium and others? The last question, also on the basis of the demands of a large number of Cladovo municipalities, Negotin, and a large number of temporary workers' associations abroad, and villages in the municipalities of Negotin and Kladovo – when and under what conditions will repair damages be done in August traffic, impact holes and the expansion of the road routes Zaječar – Negotin, then in the villages of the Municipality of Negotin and Pozarec, Velika Gradište, Golubac, Donji Milanovac, Tekija, Kladovo?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54511	Bozidar Djelic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54512	Thank you, Madam President. I will respond to that part about the Danube and road infrastructure, and counterpart Ciric will be in favour of regional development. As for the first issue, since September 2009, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia organised an inter-resor group that participated, and very actively, in the development of the European Strategy for Podunavlje, which was officially adopted by the member states on 15 April, has been quite done. First of all, Serbia was elected on February 3rd and officially to co-ordinate in two domains (and not at all irrelevant) and Danube strategies. The first is the infrastructure, where together with Slovenia we will coordinate the issue of road, rail and air transport. When we know that Romania, together with Austria, will coordinate the Danube itself as a waterway, we are in a circle of four countries that will co-ordinate on behalf of the entire EU a vital part of a very important macro-regional strategy that has just been adopted. The second is the domain of the knowledge economy, where the head of the University of Novosad, Mr. Veskovic, along with colleagues from Slovakia, will coordinate in this very important domain. Meanwhile, two new ships were purchased, one in Kladov, and the other in Big City. It's probably been 30 years since such large ships were bought for exploitation, primarily for tourism purposes. Even better, the negotiations between the two companies set out to connect and offer a joint offer for that part of the Danube. This is very important, because it is certain that tourism is one of the very attractive ideas and opportunities for that part of our country. Of course, we in the Government of the Republic of Serbia wanted to support this movement, and in these municipalities, which you, the honourable MP, mentioned, have provided this year for 6.5m euros from pre-accession EU funds to be invested in the revitalisation of the Goluba Fortress and 4.6m euros for the local infrastructure of the Municipality of Velika Gradište, and thus affirming that destination as very attractive for tourism. In that context, of course, it's unacceptable what you mentioned. It's been going on for ten years now, sometimes two to three years, with pollution coming from Romania. That wasteland, with those metals you mentioned, has again caused damage. Even in the last few days, we've had a layer of two to three millimeters on buildings in Big City. We have already launched, diplomatically, dialogue with Romania. A Ministerial Conference dedicated to the Danube Strategy is being held tomorrow in Vukovar, and I will have a meeting with the Romanian Ministry of State Secretary in charge of the Danube Strategy and we will ask that the issue be resolved. If necessary, together with the EU, because this is a pollution not only for the Serbian side, but also for the Romanian side, which has been going on for a long time. As for the roads, we have no concrete answers here, but we will ask the Ways of Serbia to prepare an answer, and perhaps my counterpart Ciric has some precision.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54513	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54514	Dear colleague Stamenkovic, let me just try to answer some of the questions you asked. You're absolutely right about eastern Serbia. Eastern Serbia is characterised by several negative trends. One is a high unemployment rate, which in some parts of eastern Serbia, such as Zajecar and some others, goes over 30%. On the other hand, poor infrastructure, i.e. the road network, also prevents even regional development and economic development, and is also one of the limiting factors for the development of the economy, i.e. attracting new investments. I must say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has declared some of the places you mentioned priority. One mention was my colleague Djelic, related to the development of tourism in Golubac and the Golubak City, where funds from the Ministry of Economy and Access and Pre-Accession Funds make investments that need to develop tourism, thereby raising the standard of living for citizens. On the other hand, I will remind you that, as far as eastern Serbia is concerned, the government has come up with a plan for one of the priorities to be the development of a semi-road network, and one of them is also a semi-road from Paracino to Zaječar, which should make it possible to attract new investments. I'll remind you that we managed to make a practical first investment in eastern Serbia, which is "Gorenje" in Zaječar, in a failed hall "Porcella", which has not worked, it seems to me, for almost 20 years. I hope that's the announcement of some new investment trends here. I will also remind you of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, which is a major investment cycle in RTB Bor, as one of the most important strategic enterprises of the Republic of Serbia, where it works close to 5,000 people. There is the Republic of Serbia, along with certain financial institutions, in the investment process of building around 175m euros in new melting and refinements, new sulphuric acid factories, the purchase of new mining equipment and new fleets. I think RTB Bor, like such a large complex, will, the moment the investment is completed, attracts either a large number of medium and small enterprises, not only from Bor, but from a wider region, exactly eastern Serbia. RTB Bor is also an indication that the state has in no way lost interest not only, but this region considers one of the regions where state funds and pre-accession EU funds really need to invest and try all, together with local self-governments, and here I agree with you – a poor economic and social picture in eastern Serbia to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54515	Does MP Sinisa Stamenkovic want another three minutes? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54516	Our intention was to draw particular attention to the fact that there are no electrified railways in eastern Serbia, no pipelines, no road network solved, that we belong to part of the Republic of Serbia where the lowest quality of the travel network is, and that in that part of our country lives, on a surface of 7133 km, many valuable and good people who, unfortunately, today do not have enough opportunities to work with their means of work. It really takes a number of employees, who used to be 94,000, and now 53,000 and are constantly falling, by emergency procedure... And that the measures you put before the Serbian public today are applied immediately and irrevocably. Given that these are strategic issues, they must be institutionally resolved and contain concrete proposals for urgent improvement of both travel networks and businesses in eastern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54517	Do any of the members of the government want to give an additional answer, an explanation? No, I don't. ) In that case, the word has a People's MP, Velimir Ilic. First three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of Ministers, I would like to ask Mr Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, since the president is not present to answer my next question. You've recently had the choice of a new government, we've passed a law on new ministries, and now, after the government's reconstruction, there's no trace of any budget rebalancing. Mr. Djelic, how do you, as former finance minister, now function and how do you spend your resources? Permanently, you've been breaking the Budget Law, and breaking the Budget Law has been a felony, and that's been going on for months. How is it possible to spend funds from the NIP, which were defined, where were the largest funds, when there was no minister now, no ministry, no stamps, nothing? Who's the one who gives the order to the vault, and how do they spend that money? Do you demean the institution of this Parliament that passed the Budget Law and run away from rebalancing? How is it possible that the ministry that you have divided into mining and energy, or in particular agriculture and trade, there you have had two budget items and positions, how can you now spend it without Parliament's decision and without budget rebalances? I understand some of the ministries that are left, but who's the one giving orders to the Treasury, and how are these funds now available? So, this borrowing, which we had credit lines that were related to certain ministries, to certain projects, how is it rerouting now, if the ministry is shut down? So, how do you count that period of one total chaos in the vault and the transfer of funds as anyone wanted to cover it legally, through this Parliament? Should MPs now make a decision and bless it all, which is still impossible, technically impossible? What was the problem with making budget rebalances? For the Minister of Economy, one short question. I don't think you should allow the privatization of Telekom in this way, after a tender that didn't work. The tender failed, the tender was completed and you cannot give subsequent conditions that were not in the tender documentation. Now Malta is a free contract with the Austrians, that is, with Mr. Schlaff. You may not know who Schlaff is, but your predecessors know the great Schlaff. How is it possible, you say, on a delayed payment? Well, it's not that...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54519	People's MP, you've been used the time available to ask questions. Thank you. Bozidar Djelic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54520	Of course, the way the government works is by law and the possibilities given by the law that voted this house, which is the Law on the Budget System, have been used. The way new budget items have been formed is under the law and, therefore, the functioning of the law has been ensured. It was not, of course, any illegal actions, but rather the convenience and possibility opened by the Budgetary System Act was used to pass a certain amount of funds in the budget through the budget reserve and form a new budget fund. That's how these ministries work. Of course, this home needs to know what money is spent on, it must know, if there are less or more funds, for which it is intended, so if there is a need for it, and if experience in the last 11 years has shown that it is often necessary in our circumstances, and independent of the Government leading the Republic of Serbia, it will be of course rebalancing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54521	National MP Velimir Ilic has the right to the other three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54522	Mr. Djelic, I really thought you'd answer this question seriously. How do you think Parliament is covering you retroactively and you're spending? What law? The budget law is the Holy Scriptures for spending funds and no one can break it. Do you know that Mr. Cvetkovic, as finance minister, has filed criminal charges for over budgeting against a gentleman who has received two years in prison for this? He had government approval and a government order to do it. The verdict says that he broke it, as an accomplice, in the criminal part of the government that led him to a crime. Please, how can you hold the budget of the Republic of Serbia (not your dowry, please) and spend it as you wish? And what then shall we inform the messengers of how we spent money, and the messengers shall certainly raise their hands and say, "Bravo! How can you use a NIP dinar after you shut down the NIP? Who's the one giving the Treasury a warrant to pay for a specific position? How can the Ministry of Mining and Energy, for example, which is a large ministry, be divided? How did you make a division between Mrkonjic and Dulic? How much do you get and take? In what way? You know what the Budget Law is? Please, the government cannot violate the budget law adopted in Parliament. He can only reroute and use the budget reserve. You'll see about that. It's a huge punishment and you'll see for sure. Talk to the budget inspection, who says he can't go in there right now because they're afraid of losing their jobs. But the State Audit Committee, anyone... How can funds be spent that way? I understand Mr. Sutanovac's ministry, which remains the same, with the same position as Mr. Ljajic, but how do the rest of you function? Here's the health care, for example, the rest. But how are the others? How do you pay? How do you even invest?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54523	Does anyone want to answer? No, I don't. ) In that case, the word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I would like to ask two questions on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group. First it refers to the Ministry of Justice's portfolio, but nevertheless, the members of the government present can answer me. I want to start by saying that I have no intention of asking the question I'm going to abuse or putting any kind of pressure on the judiciary. The question is, at what stage is the criminal report procedure filed last November for lighting up the political background of the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, or the crime of an armed rebellion of the November 2001 Special Operations Unit, which is an integral part and indictment in the process of killing the prime minister? I think we need to, as a society and as a public, have that kind of answer. In fact, my question is – at what stage is this procedure? Have any procedural actions been taken? Have any witnesses been heard? If they didn't, why didn't they? The second question concerns the economy. I ask the question to the members of the government present – does this government intend to lead the policy of double arches towards the public sector and the private sector until the end of the term of office (mainly I think of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs)? In fact, the government recently decided that the budget would finance the integration of seven years of contributions to public companies workers, where the state actually has ownership stakes. It's over 100,000 workers. I don't think that's good. My question is: has the government ever made a decision in favour of the private sector or intends to protect the public sector on the burden of both the private sector and all of us taxpayers and to reduce the possibility of encouraging the modernisation of education or fostering agriculture? I believe that this question is very important and that it is not good for private entrepreneurs, who, for example, are a month late to pay their contributions to workers, to pay a fine of at least 105,000 dinars. The minimum penalty is 100,000 for companies and 5,000 for directors. In this case, the state gives us an example of how it is possible that no contributions have been made for seven years at all and how it is possible for the state to be freed and granted itself. So, freed of any punishment and privileged to the extent that these claims can be charged by all of us, that is, out of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54525	The word has Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54526	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I'll try to answer this second part of the questions you asked. As far as I'm aware, the integration of the government's work force was not for public enterprises, but for social and state-owned enterprises. It is two groups of companies – for one we cannot yet find a strategic partner, that is, privatisation as such is not possible, and the other is a group of enterprises for which privatisation contracts have been broken. Both groups of these social and state-owned enterprises are very difficult companies. It's, like you said, about a couple of tens of thousands of people who take small profits. We, as Government, have estimated that in this situation these people need to be helped, connected to their work experience, allowed them to be treated, for the simple reason that we should not have allowed a large number of people to have no associated work experience and there is no possibility of treatment. On the other hand, I agree with your finding, if I understand it correctly, that the government should and must support the private sector. I completely agree with you. I remind you, among other things, that the government has based its programme to combat the global economic crisis on support of the primarily private sector. Let me remind you that last and last year about a billion and a few euros have been paid by banks to subsidize the state for liquidity and investment loans. Also, the measure with which we will come out very quickly is the measure to address a recommendation from the Government to banks, with the help of the National Bank of course, to try on private enterprises, first of all, a reprogramme of their due loans or loans that are in the past, to facilitate their liquidity problem. The third thing is the measure at work, and I think that in the next two weeks we will have that measure adopted by the government, which will be the same for the private sector, which will be a stimulating programme for hiring new people in the next 12 months, where, if all is well, we will have the opportunity to have private companies that employ new people pay half the taxes and contribute to these new people. In this way we will enable them to employ new people, and on the other hand help those people who are now either not working or in the gray zone and earn their salaries in cash, without paying taxes and contributions. I must say that we as Government must take care of both the private and the state sector. I do not agree with some that priority must only be public and state-owned enterprises. No, equally. But once again I come back, it's a very important thing that you said, connecting a work force for close by, if I'm not mistaken, some 60,000 people who work, I once again stress, in state and social enterprises, I think it was an indicator of the government's social responsibility to help these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54527	Bozidar Djelic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54528	I will deliver in writing an answer to your first, extremely important question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54529	Natasa Micic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54530	I also thank Mr. Ciric and Mr. Djelic. I say the first question – I felt it was not good to remember the prime minister only on 12 March. As for this second question, which was answered by Mr Ciric, we LDP have no objection to helping the endangered, of course. It would be pointless to think differently. But simply, that's why we put up with all kinds of initiatives, let's just say that there's been a transformation of public enterprises, which unfortunately didn't produce results, even though we had an initiative. I don't think there's enough support, that you've mentioned, these subsidies and loans, especially that they're not sufficiently transparent conditions, or the conditions for getting these subsidies aren't equal enough for everyone, so to speak. I talked more about it when I discussed and, say, the Development Fund, his business, but well, that's a different story. Anyway, I think the car's about to break. The government literally transfers the entire burden to citizens only, to this private sector and to agriculture, in the interest of the protection of state and public enterprises. It can't last forever, and I think the sooner you find some better answers. Our proposal, among other things, is to specifically mean by some concrete act, to help private entrepreneurs. For example, our proposal is to make tax reliefs for employers up to the level of average earnings, wages, and that would be good for employers, and thus improve the material position of workers who work. I don't know if you and how aware you are that your private entrepreneurs are really at odds and it's a matter of day, which is why I'm asking you today this question, when this whole system is going to collapse. Simply, they are the ones who have to fulfill all obligations and pay extra fines if they are not able, and usually they are not able because they are in a blockade or because the state cannot provide them with their claims. On the other hand, they're the only ones who miss you with your expenditure requirements for state and public enterprises. I don't think that's good, and it's going to hurt the whole country, or the whole society. Without the private sector, we cannot implement any modernisation, that is clear, nor can we make any economic success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54531	The word has Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54532	I appreciate the question. Let me be very clear. As regards support for the private sector, subsidised investment and liquidity loans are loans approved by banks. We deliberately transferred it to the banks, just to prevent any possibility that someone on the side of the state treats a company in a privileged way, and one in a discriminatory way. Number one, what I told you about the reprogramme, that will be a recommendation from the government, hopefully with the help of the National Bank. Also, banks need their clients to approve a reprogramme, with a certain grace period. What you said about certain tax reliefs, the tax system of the Republic of Serbia is, for companies operating in terms of profit tax, one of the most competitive in Europe. I think only Bulgaria or Montenegro have 9% profit taxes, examples works, and we have 10%. All other countries have higher than us. But that's why I said before, to help employers transfer some of their workers in the gray zone to legal flows, and on the other hand, to people who are not working now or in the gray zone, they can't take loans, they don't have a work experience, they don't have health insurance... That's why we said that, I think in about two weeks, we're going to have a concrete programme that we're about to say through tax reliefs, but to be more precise, through a 50% reduction, if not more, maybe 60 percent of certain taxes and contributions that fall on the employer's or employees' burden, to allow for greater employment of people in Serbia. As for the regularity, i.e. the irregularity of payment by certain state authorities and certain public enterprises, it is also one of the things that we are considering whether to be in the form of a law, a regulation, how to regulate it. This problem is only strengthened by the conditions of the economic crisis in 2009, 2010 or 2011, but the problem of the indifference that is being transferred, and it is extremely present in the relations between private companies, very complicated, and I hope that this year we will be able to resolve this regularity of payments in a legal manner. I'll remind you that the government has been involved several times so far to try to alleviate this problem, especially for example, between large trade chains and certain companies when it comes to certain delays. Once again, that's a really big problem. Some of my experience in contact with some of my colleagues is saying that both Montenegro, Croatia, Bulgaria and Romania have this problem of insolvency and pay irregularities. For example, in Croatia they have even more pronounced, or payment deadlines over currency are even longer than with us. But I agree completely with you that this is a problem that we have to pay attention to. It's not something you can do with one act of government, regulation or law to solve. It's a system thing, which has to be solved in a medium term, rather than in a long term. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54533	Natasa Micic, two minutes to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54534	Just once again, I would like to point out that it is high time that efforts are made to take care of both the private sector and their protection. You mentioned loans, but we're all here aware that we're still in such an economic situation that these loans are not enough and are not favourable to private entrepreneurship, or to root out the gray economy. Unfortunately, as a country, we are being put into a situation so that today a finished engineer, let's say, when you ask him what he would like to do, work either in a public enterprise or go beyond the border. Rarely anyone who dares to have so much courage, because he's aware of how hard it is to start a business, especially a production business, here. I hope that your efforts will yield results and that you will take into account the proposals made by the LDP, and above all, you have already mentioned themselves, allowing tax incentives for private employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54535	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Samardzic, for the first three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54536	Dear government members, my question concerns Serbia's foreign policy and I should refer it to the foreign policy minister. Since he is not present, I will refer him to the government as a whole, hoping that one of you will be able to answer me. A three-day meeting of the heads of state of Turkey, BiH and Serbia was held two days ago in Karadjordjevo for the anniversary of the first such meeting in Istanbul. I'd just like to remind you that some Istanbul Declaration was adopted in Istanbul and, by the way, it's a document that can't be found anywhere, anywhere, on any website, on the government website or even on the Turkish Foreign Ministry site. So, it's a document that we don't know what it says, and it would be good, in the name of transparency, famous, as the EU's foreign policy standard, to somehow get that document. Perhaps this congregation could make an effort to do so. My question concerns, first of all, this meeting that took place the day before yesterday. In a joint statement, we can find the view that these three countries support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the three countries -- Turkey, BiH and Serbia. That sentence in that statement is inconclusive. In light of Turkey's recognition of Kosovo as an independent state, the statement does not indicate whether Turkey is ready to withdraw its recognition of KIM or is Serbia ready to withdraw its position that KIM belongs to Serbia's territorial integrity. That requires an interpretation. So, the interpretation this assembly would have to receive, a team before Turkish Foreign Minister Davutoglu said yesterday that the meeting had finally put an end to the border issue in the region. Therefore, it is not clear to us whether Turkey, our partner in regional co-operation, recognises Serbia's borders in terms of its constitution and international law or remains in what it has defined as its position on Kosovo's independence, so that it recognises Kosovo's independence. This answer to the question is very important, so that we may later debate or discuss and ask one additional question, what am I entitled to, about the same thing, but in another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54537	Any of the members of the government answer that question? Yeah. ) The word has Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54538	Dear Professor Samardzic, we're back in some, I think, made-up mysteries, some structures and connections that you're somehow trying to find where they're really not there. The situation is clear and loud – in our Constitution and resolutions adopted in this house. Is it in Serbia's interest to co-operate with Turkey as well? Yes, it is. At the expense of your own national interest? No, I don't. Do we have dots and common interest in some things? We do. Do we differ on any questions? Absolutely. In any case, both the EU and Russia and the United States are developing relations with Turkey. Turkey has strong economic demographic growth, a certain impact, and that impact is something that can benefit our country. If, of course, at any moment, like Turkey itself, we defend the national Serb interest above all. In that sense, the usefulness of these meetings should be seen. The meeting is, as is said, informal meeting, in the sense that it is not part of some official activities, like many such meetings, and most importantly, all participants in the meeting said that it has contributed in various ways to seeing perspectives and solving problems. In that light, you need to see it. The resolution on Srebrenica, adopted in this house, also speaks of BiH's territorial integrity, and it is well known that Serbia, as a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement, is very attached to its consistent implementation and will not accept in any way that it is empty of its meaning and legal importance. In this sense, Serbia supports BiH's territorial integrity, Serbia respects and is guaranteed a Dayton Agreement that also allows for special ties with Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54539	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic, for another three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54540	Mr. Djelic, a lot of things you've been talking about, just not my question. You didn't answer my question. So, you've made a replacement for thesis. I did not talk about the need to establish relations between the two states, Serbia and Turkey, or about co-operation in the world or about these beauty and beauty. It's very good and important for this country. I just asked a question, given this statement, what it means for the state. In fact, if that's what you're saying, it was probably the smartest thing to do in this statement to leave out this sentence where all three countries support sovereignty and territorial integrity. This is specifically about Turkey's relationship to the sentence, because it comes to the guests of Serbia, to Karajordjevo. We're talking regional co-operation and all that. There are other things in the statement that don't bother me at all, but here's the line. It's important for someone from the government to interpret that sentence, not to tell a wide story about the need for countries in the world to co-operate today. Thank you for that, I heard that one more time, but that's not what I'm asking. Namely, if that statement is signed by a state that has recognised part of the territory as an independent state, then it does not support sovereignty and territorial integrity. I think I'm clear. That's my conclusion. Or, if a state that considers it sovereign and territorially integrated, such as Serbia, I really do not believe, it cannot be with one who admits a breach of territorial integrity to sign such a sentence. That's my question. Please concentrate, nothing more and nothing else. As far as BiH is concerned, it is quite clear that Serbia is one of the signatories and guarantors of the Dayton Agreement. There is something else – the Constitution of BiH, which is part of the Dayton Agreement, Annex II, is at risk today with initiatives from the EU and the United States to change and to decentralised the state, to change the state's order. That's what this is about. But as far as BiH's territorial integrity is concerned, it is not at all at risk, but at least from Serbia. Therefore, it was unnecessary for President Tadic to now guarantee territorial integrity by saying that we would not support any referendum that would endanger him. The referendum that has been called will not endanger territorial integrity, he is simply asking that the Dayton Agreement, i.e. The BiH Constitution respects, and nothing more. He was violated by the work of an international representative, as you know. It's just by the way, to what you said in the end. But please answer me, if you can, this question is extremely simple and short.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54541	The word has Božidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54542	Dear People's MP, I think it's good for you to concentrate on what's written, not on what you think should be written. Two of the three who have said so, both Serbia and BiH, do not recognise Kosovo. Unfortunately, Turkey has admitted so-called. Kosovo. We have this big difference with this country, but what the story was about and what was said wasn't about that question, which we know very well that we have the difference. By leading this policy, we want not only to have stronger alliances with those who share our views on this important issue, but also to bring those countries that unfortunately are heading this way, through a peaceful reasonable policy, force of law, arguments, reality on the ground, closer to our positions. It's something that's much more certain to do if you have active diplomacy, politics and contacts on a variety of issues, than to say that because we have differences on this issue we stop any contact about anything else. I think that, if you and I want to concentrate, the right way, the wise way to run our country and our policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54543	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Samardzic, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54544	This is what the statement reads: "We have openly addressed various issues of common importance in the friendly atmosphere, looking for common solutions, and supporting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries." So, I want to concentrate together again, if you can't, then at least the MPs here, about that question. You can talk a lot about this co-operation, which is important, which will achieve many results etc., but if the state admits in this way that it does not control its territory, either legally or in fact, and admits that one country that accepts the secession of territory along with Serbia goes into the bright future, then all these results that you've been talking about are falling into the water. Because there is a fundamental principle of that state, its existence and the interrelationship of all states, which is sovereignty and territorial integrity. So, I'm just saying, to confirm what I once said -- this statement has a problem with this sentence, where it can be interpreted as denying Serbia sovereignty and territorial integrity in Kosovo. It's an extremely legitimate interpretation. I took him out, and you just avoided making a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54545	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54546	My question is next. I wonder, here is Mr. Ciric, who is responsible – can you get a list of all privatisations and bankruptcys from the establishment of the Privatisation Agency, with the precision that the director of the Privatisation Agency was at the time of certain sales of enterprises or bankruptcys? Can you get a list of the overprivitations that have been cancelled, listed by period and name at the time of the sale of the current director of the Privatisation Agency? So what director had and how many cancelled privatisations, or bankruptcys during his, conditionally speaking, rule? The third question, which is the first two, is – where are now the directors of the Privatisation Agency, the head of the Center for Control, as well as the Centre for Banks, and is the Tax Administration able to cross the data between what are unsuccessful privatisations and the sale of businesses and property cards of these directors that have been highlighted by the cancelled privatisations? You know, all the talk of fighting corruption in society, of systemic corruption, of falling into the water if we have double arches to undo the privatisations that are under way. Some are cancelled as soon as one war is not paid, or workers are owed a month’s pay, and many of the privatisations are not cancelled, and when several wars are not paid, or they are prolonged. As it is otherwise possible to explain that someone who has bought a lot of companies, for example, has not earned a profit, has millions of losses, all this is public data, does not file tax returns for large incomes, can pay the war for example. Five hundred thousand euros? These are issues that interest Serbian citizens, workers who have lost their jobs and I expect to get an answer to these questions. And, as part of this issue, I want Mr Cvetkovic's dilemma yesterday, many Serbian citizens and mine, if possible, to be clarified. How can a single offer come from many interested potential customers to privatise Telecom at an extremely low price that has been announced for the sale of 51% of capital? Is it possible... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54547	Three minutes. Thank you. Nebojsa Ciric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54548	Dear Mrs. Tabakovic, let me try to answer some of your questions. They repeat, so you correct me if I haven't been able to write it down. The first question is whether you can get a list of companies that went bankrupt and to refer to the list of companies that are privatized. I'm guessing the question concerns the sale of a legal person or property out of bankruptcy. I don't see a problem here, we'll treat it like a parliamentary question, I'll personally deliver that list to you. Number two is a list of overprivileged privatisations. You can also get that from my side. If we need to tie that up when who was the director of the Privatisation Agency, I will tell you in person, there was no problem – there were not so many. If I'm not mistaken, they were somewhere around 5-6. As for the third question, which concerns where the former directors of the Privatisation Agency and the directors of the sector are currently employed, I do not have to answer you with all due respect. You'll ask someone else to answer that. Could the Tax Administration cross-reference the data related to the cancelled, or failed privatisations, and whether any of the former directors of the Privatisation Agency appeared as a buyer in privatisation – please explain this, I did not understand that part of the question. As for the cancellation, or termination of privatisation, I don't have any specific data on me. If I am not mistaken, in the last two years, the largest number of privatizations have been annulled in part due to the global economic crisis, but I must also say because of the extreme control of the Privatisation Agency, with the primary focus on respect for the provisions of the purchase agreements relating to the respect of the social programme – on the payout of earnings, i.e. the regularity of the payout of earnings, taxes and contributions. How someone can pay a 500,000-euro war, I don't think it's a question for me either. I'll answer every question you ask me, but this is a question for the Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Anti-Organised Crime Authority and other state institutions. I don't think it's a question for the Ministry of Economy and for me as Minister of Economy. As for Telekom, I think you had a chance yesterday to be fully informed by the Prime Minister about the process. Why is it that out of five interested people in the end only one has submitted an offer, it's more of a question for these investors, not for me. What I'm about to tell you is my personal and professional position, but this is the position of the entire government -- that Telekom will not be privatized, or sold for below 1.4 billion euros. Whether there is a legal basis, i.e. the legitimate right of the working group, or the Government to allow, or to ask for an additional deadline to improve the offer, I think a month ago, when the representatives of the Government were also here, and I was here, answered that in principle, in every privatisation, every offer is conditional. The approval of the Anti-Monopolitan Commission, i.e. the Competition Protection Commission, etc., should be obtained. If you're a salesman, you have a legitimate right to ask an interested, potential buyer to increase. If you're going to get it, it doesn't have to mean. I don't see what's wrong with what the task force said – please, an offer of 950 million for 51% of capital is not acceptable, increase the bid to 1.4 billion. I know that you, or your party, have filed criminal charges, among other things, and against me, for which I thank you. I don't participate in the task force's work for 3-4 months, but for everything I've done, including participation in the task force last year, I'm absolutely carrying professional and personal responsibility. I'm willing to face everything you've said, but I'm saying -- why someone made a lower offer and didn't give a bigger one -- that's a question for these customers, and it's up to us as a state, if I may say so, to decide whether we're going to sell it if that buyer raises the price.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54549	The word is Jorgenka Tabakovic, three minutes away.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54550	I'll start with Telekom. I couldn't finish my question. How is it possible that out of so many interested potential customers with a concrete offer only one appears? Do you perhaps owe the public an answer to the question of whether a letter has arrived in the meantime, including your address, as well as the address of the Ministry of Finance, the Prime Minister, the Telecom that is privatizing, the one that deals with public procurement, where you are warned by a particular organisation, not to mention a group of investors, who has made it clear to all other potential investors that the problem of state ownership structure is hiding and that only one buyer has appeared? I think my question is completely accurate. Did you receive a letter between March 18th and 24th, you and all other potential customers with a warning about a possible problem in the privatisation of Telekom, which you do not inform the public about? And we're all interested, because there's a lot of employees here, and there's a lot of people tied up, from budgets to those who work in it. When it comes to the information I'm looking for for the Privatisation Agency, it's not just for you personally. It's a question for this society, for the government of which you are a member. Because money laundering, what is called money-to-equity connections that existed in these companies that are privatized and what is called workers who today have no business, and on the other hand created one elite, deliberately created by bad legal projects, is your problem, mine and each of the citizens of Serbia. This question I ask for the Tax Administration, for the application of income, for the crossover of data between people and connections, because you've had abuses among people who are employed here, is the question we need to answer by fighting for legality and building system institutions. I would ask you to invest all your knowledge and authority as a member of the government and party to which you belong or do not belong, to get answers to these questions and to punish existing perpetrators for abuses, but also to warn all those who might dare to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54551	The word has Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54552	Dear Mrs. Tabakovic, I'm glad there's something you and I agree on. I am entirely on the same line with you that, if we know of certain criminal activities, even failures, intentional or unintended, we should all work together, both position and opposition, all parts of society, and especially state institutions, so that, I don't mean completely eradicated, it's impossible, nor is it possible in any country, but to be as small as possible. That's where I really agree with you. As for the Telekom issue, I don't mean to be uninformed, but I haven't seen that letter in person between March 18th and 24th. That doesn't mean someone else hasn't seen him. I don't know who sent the letter. If you know, tell me, please. I haven't really seen a letter like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54553	National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54554	I do not claim to do the work of the government and to make political actors, nor the president, nor the government, nor the ruling majority impossible in the exercise of jurisdiction, or to try to implement what they intend to do. In that sense, what is called the information owed by the Prime Minister will not be given by Jorgenka Tabakovic, an opposition MP, but it is not right that the public is not informed of what is important for the entire future generation of all of us, which is the sale of one of the most profitable, or to say the most profitable enterprise. The question must be answered by the one in charge, which is Mr Cvetkovic. My appeal to you – by establishing illegality it is not enough from the Privatisation Agency to fire two or three workers or officers who have misused the position of parallel company formation and engaged in counselling for the area for which they are employed. There is no protection at the Privatisation Agency that is provided to Mr Jelasic, which is that he or his associates never corresponds to the damage he or she purposely or accidentally committed and, after leaving the governor's post, took employment in one of the commercial banks. And you know that according to the Labour Act, no worker has the right to be employed in the same activity, two years after leaving his job, because he can abuse the data he has. I appeal to you that the lack of evidence is not an excuse for unconfirming those who have devastated, destroyed and left hundreds of thousands without a job. It's both your job and mine. Once again, I ask you to help do this job properly, because every fourth unprivatised privatisation is sufficient reason to take this job seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54555	The word has a folk letter from Marina Toman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54556	Thank you. First of all, I am sorry that Minister Dulic is not here, but he could answer my question, since there is no Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture. The question I'm going to ask today is, first of all, the construction of a factory for the processing of dangerous industrial waste in Kovacica. My question is - which criteria were managed by the competent state authorities when they approved that in the vicinity of residential facilities, on a plot surrounded by arable surfaces, near the canal, near a sports-recreative centre with open swimming pools and sports grounds, whose intention is, above all, to attract tourists, to build a centre for recycling industrial waste that has the properties of hazardous materials, with a collection station for secondary raw materials? In Kovacica, in southern Banat, 50km from Belgrade, 20km from Pančevo, in a small town with 7,000 inhabitants (the entire municipality has about 27,000 inhabitants), where there are no environmental pollutants, where there is no industrial waste that would be processed, in the midst of arable areas, this centre will be built, on a surface of 18,187m square meters. So, in Kovacica, where there is no industrial waste for processing, waste will be processed from "Ju-Es style" Smederevo, from FAM Kruševac, from Termoelectrica Kostolac and a number of other similar plants – industrial waste from all over Serbia. A factory is being built near a populated town, alongside so many uninhabited parts of Serbia. Is there a logic there? Does that even make sense? Although citizens are convinced that the factory will be built according to high standards, that waste will be stored on strict criteria, it is still high-risk waste and no one with certainty, so I think neither you ministers can claim in advance that the incidents will not be. They'll process and store asbestos waste, we all know how asbestosy the compound is carcinogenic. Liquid waste will be processed, which is listed in the environmental impact study that ordered the creation of the Junisk investor alone, has a dangerous property...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54557	Three minutes. Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54558	I don't know the details, I'll inform you in writing about all this, but the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed over the past two years, and the National Assembly has passed a large number of laws that regulate this extremely important matter and a large number of sublegal acts are there. So it is certain that the government of the Republic of Serbia will in no way allow the health of the citizens of Kovacica to be compromised, of course. And you'll get the details in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54559	Marina Toman's national emissary, the other three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54560	I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that besides so many uninhabited parts of Serbia, the factory is being built near a populated area. First of all, the Kovačica municipality is a very specific environment, in which Slovaks, Hungarians, Serbs, Romanians, Roma live, which is a very rare environment in Europe. The blacksmith is known worldwide for his naive painters, in Idvor, in the municipality of Kovačica, was born Mihajlo Pupin, not to speak of other, very important things for this municipality. Instead of working to exploit all the specificities of this environment, the citizens of Kovačica are offered a factory for the processing of dangerous industrial waste. First of all, people who do agriculture and a number of other things are at risk. This is an reckless decision setting out the path for this municipality to move in the future. We're very concerned about this trip and the fate you've given her.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54561	Do any of the members of the government want to comment? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54562	And I come from Banat, from Pancheva, from Vojvodina, and I am interested – what is the effect of limiting the highest price of bread and banning the export of wheat? That is an important issue, especially for the Vojvodina, and I think for all other citizens of Serbia. He would immediately ask another question, and this is an opportunity for Mr. Minister (who, truth, for now only has 30 days of internship at this job, means in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management), if he can, answer me – what are the Ministry and Government planning to do to control the quality of agricultural products? Because the season of buying out raspberries and other agricultural products is coming, and I think it's very interesting for all citizens and consumers, and on the other hand, for producers of agricultural products, to know what is planned in terms of quality control of agricultural products. I think it's very important, especially for those who consume these agricultural products after the ransom has been made.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54563	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54564	Thank you very much. As you know, the government of the Republic of Serbia made one very soon after the reconstruction, I think a very important decision when it comes to the price of bread. The "sava" bread regulation, which accounts for about 40% of the total consumption of bread in the Republic of Serbia, found its highest retail price at 54.22 dinar levels. I would also like to say, in front of this high home, that although it is in a formal and legal sense, one administrative measure, we have not in any way endangered the economic game and the competition in terms of this article – therefore, it is not all the baker's production, that is, the whole range of bakery production, because for other types of bread it is free to form the price, all the pastries have a free price formation, but a bread that accounts for 40% of total turnover – but also at that point, and even today, everything that happens on the market of this type of bread is going on below this price of 54.22 dinars. This means that the government of the Republic of Serbia has made one good decision, that we have established one level over which the collection would be unwarranted, especially since there has been a decrease in the price of flour, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, this bread has a very different price, ranging from about 30 dinars, to this price of 54.22 dinars. In addition to the ban on the price of bread "sava" being higher than this level, we have made a decision that wheat exports cannot be carried out in the time prescribed by the regulation. On the other hand, by harvesting, we reduced the customs duty on imports of wheat, allowed the quantities of flour agreed, which is 33,000 tonnes in total, to be exported, so as not to endanger the jobs of the dairy industry. It has been shown that this set of measures has led to stabilization of opportunities, that we have no turbulence on the market for flour, on the wheat market, or on the bread market. According to all the data I have, I don't expect to have any problems with this item for weeks or months to come. It's perfectly natural, as it always is, when the harvest is done and the wheat of this year's generation is there at the end of August and early September, in a technical sense it becomes operational and when production of all kinds of products starts, of course we will have a completely different situation and when these price pressures are at stake. On your second question, I have passed a rule that changes the way all primary products will be controlled. You're absolutely right, we're expecting a raspberries harvest in mid-June, and that's the first big campaign. Of course, immediately after that comes the wheat, and as already, all in a row, to go, and we will have a fully regulated system, where everyone who has a ransom spot and who is authorized to buy primary agricultural products will have to meet the fully clear and pre-known conditions, which are prescribed by technical rules. We'll protect the market. First of all, I mean peasants, primary agricultural producers. Agricultural inspection, market inspection and everyone else in charge will be fully mobile and we will review all of the ransom sites before the purchases begin. So here and now I want to tell all the participants in this business that if they respect regulations and if they respect order, no one, of course, will have any problem. Both the government and the Ministry of Agriculture and the competent inspection will help everyone, because it is of interest to us that this job is done as well as to the satisfaction of everyone. I am sure that in this way we have made a good framework in the regulations to remove some bad habits and manners, which in previous years, unfortunately, were part of our lives and that we will have a completely different system and way that this very important and vital job for a huge number of people, for all citizens of Serbia, will be done. So we have the strength, which I am fully convinced of (at the same time, we will see already in mid-June), to protect all participants in transport, and those who sell agricultural products and those who buy them, and everyone will be able to fully protect and fully achieve them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54565	Does the MP want to use the next three minutes? No, I don't. ) In that case, the word has a People's MP, Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54566	Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, my question has been addressed to the Minister of Defence (I am sorry that the Minister of Labour is not here, because, in some ways, it would refer to him) and it refers to the problem of the so-called 'Montenegrin military pensioners', for which I have sought a solution many times. The last response I received from the government (signed by the Prime Minister) decidedly states that of all the disputed cases, about 70 of them, 47 were found to obtain the right to make their pension in the Republic of Serbia and that they were paid the pension in 2010. However, since 1 January 2011, these people have not received their pension again, which means they are in some way being challenged by that right. While in response, the government also said there was a failure to pay off the January 1st pension due to the budget's lack of funding. As far as this second part of the answer is concerned, I simply cannot accept that it is so, that we do not have any humanity or responsibility to solve the problem of 47 people in Serbia and that they can be guaranteed a decent life in the third season. These people do not receive pensions, have nothing to live on and ask the Minister of Defence – is it possible to resolve this and that these military pensioners begin to receive their pensions regularly? I have to say, I'm going to be a little morbid, and if someone made an administrative failure so he didn't plan it, I know the data -- about 150 military pensioners die a month. I know family pensions come true, but only on that basis (I said I'd be a little morbid) can I provide money for those 47 military pensioners. Therefore, I ask you for an answer – when can these people expect a regular pension payment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54567	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54568	I must say that this issue was raised in 2009 and that I, as Minister, am in charge of taking care, above all, of defending the country and respecting the law, as well as respecting the Budget Law. There's been a very professional debate about whether these people are military pensioners or not. Most of them achieved their pension right in Montenegro and received pensions in Montenegro. These same people, in that period, did so according to their own wishes. So, when Serbia-Montenegro split up, one part of the people who was in Montenegro, who was in the units that had special supplements (I say one part of the people, I'm not talking about all), just because of these supplements, he stayed in Montenegro to get a bigger pension. And they took a pension. Montenegro has made a decision by law, which I believe is in conflict with human rights, to lose and gain the right to change your residence. I believe that nowhere in the world can it happen, that by changing your residence, if you were a pensioner of Montenegro, you lose your pension in Montenegro. This would mean that any of our workers working abroad, moving from abroad and returning to a home country, is losing their right to retire abroad, which any international court would judge as unfounded and pay them off. According to the knowledge that there are people who have lost that right, we have formed a legal team and offered these people all legal assistance to launch an appeal to the International Court in Strasbourg for the damages they have suffered and the payment of their pensions. However, since the military pension system in Serbia is in much better shape than it is in Montenegro, since military pensions in Serbia are more than average salaries in the military health system in Serbia, with respect for the civil health system at a much higher level than in Montenegro, they decided not to press charges against Montenegro, but to launch various ways in which we are calling for humanity to come to terms with pensions in Serbia. Given that this is a legal-formal problem and that there was pressure on the public, which MPs, the decision was made to get them into our pension fund, but not the military pension fund. They're not military pensioners, and they're not being followed by accessories like other military pensioners, and they've just been paid off, or they've been accounted for through our fund, because we've been giving them this favor. The whole initiative was then launched at the Ministry of Labour. I must say that I was personally against it, because I think it is contrary to the interests of the Serbian citizens, to pay one pension that has already been allocated in another country. Given that this was then launched, we expected that the other ministry would calculate and calculate with this money and that the money would appear in their budget, or funds to pay off these pensions. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Certainly, since the state has taken a certain obligation, we will try to help the Ministry of Labour and find the funds that will be paid through pensions, but I must tell you that the way you represent their interests is the opposite of the interest of the state of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. With all due respect, the people who were members of the JNA or the Army of Serbia-Montenegro, those who defined themselves to receive their first pension outside the borders of this country, because their interest at the time was more than a percentage, monetaryally, and because the situation in our country was difficult at the time, cannot be in the interest of the Ministry of Defence, neither the Government of the Republic of Serbia nor the citizens of Serbia to put them on equal grounds as those who then defined themselves to come to Serbia and exercise their rights in Serbia. That's the main problem. I would like it when you talk about this problem (and you yourself say so-called military pensioners or Montenegrin pensioners; they are not so-called Montenegrin pensioners, they, most of them in Montenegro, exercised their pension rights), it is important to say that here, in front of MPs, because tomorrow someone in the government will tell us – who has allowed you to pay pensions for people who started out as pensioners in another country? No matter what nationality they are, because we in the defence system don't share people by nationality, no matter where they served in the meantime, they simply ended their career, by choice, in Montenegro. I remind you, the Republic of Serbia, which is little known, pays a number of pensions in Republika Srpska. It is interesting that this number has dropped less than the number of pensioners, percentage, in Serbia, and that, with one analysis and insistence to determine whether 10, 15 and 20 years longer lived in Republika Srpska than in Serbia, we have received that there has been manipulation with these pensions and now we are trying to find a clue of the money that has gone, because people obviously passed away a while ago. I want to tell you that the money that the Ministry of Defence is using is extremely household management, and we cannot go out with the money of the Serbian citizens, because it is mentioned here on several occasions today that these are taxpayers' money -- not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but your money and those who earn it. It's just, if we were to share it like that, I'm afraid that our budget would only go to those people who, practically, have no right to get money. I hope you're satisfied with the answer, because I wouldn't have anything to add.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54569	Does MP Konstantin Arsenovic want another three minutes? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54570	I need to say some things anyway. I have here, above all, put the problem of 47 military pensioners that the government has found to have the right to retire in the Republic of Serbia and in response to the government says they are to hand over the SVO Fund. I have no reason to defend or present any data, but I am based on the fact that I received in response from the government. That's the first one. Secondly, it does not stand, Mr. Minister, that military pensions in Serbia are bigger than in Montenegro. The latest is that military pensions in Montenegro are 30% higher than in Serbia. If you don't believe me, check it out. That's the data from ten days ago. Next, Mr. Minister, I am responsible for the fact that these people never signed anywhere to accept Montenegro's pension, nor did anyone question whether they wanted a pension to be made in Serbia or Montenegro, but whether they were interested or not, I don't know how they were defined to receive a pension there. But you can be right, let's say I'm not right and you're right, I accept that variant because you should be and surely you are better informed, and I thank you for promising to help. I don't know where else to go and whose jurisdiction it is, whether it's the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Defense, and that's the problem. This is still one government, so please. In the end, you promised to at least help solve the problem of these 47 pensioners. It's humane, but I don't want to affect you on the basis of pathetics. But anyway, if they didn't have the right to retire in Serbia, they shouldn't have given it to them. If the decision has already been made, then it's time for the pension to come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54571	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54572	I have to remind you that you personally put a lot of pressure on these people to grant them pensions. You know perfectly well that these people did not come to the SOVO Fund as military pensioners, but that the SOVO was counting their pensions, as he did for a time on pensions even for pensioners living in Montenegro. On the other hand, if you say that pensions in Montenegro are bigger than in Serbia, then why are they refusing to sue Montenegro and charge for everything they're not given and get those pensions that are bigger than in Serbia? I have to say, I don't know if anyone's ever asked them, but I do know that when they acquired the right and when they got their first pension, they became pensioners of the Republic of Montenegro. It is the same in Croatia and so on, along with these precedents, we may find that it appears from some other republics and says – people, I am a Serb, I want to have a Serbian pension. We today, you must know, we have about 25,000 employees at the Department of Defense, who will get a pension at the Department of Defense, and we pay over 50,000 pensions. We have about 40 generals working, including brigade generals as new rank, and about 750 general pensions. This parity, this relationship between pensioners and employees hardly exists in any country in the world, and I am doing nothing but trying to protect the interest of the Serbian state and the defence system, because that way, I say, I'm afraid... Although it is a small number of people for you, we are designing our budget in the best possible way. You know we did professionalization with a lower budget of around 150m euros than it was in 2008. We've done one big job with less money, just because we're trying to spend all the money we spend, we're spending with a big, effective fact, and now we have a useful fact coming back to us. I'm sorry, these people aren't military pensioners and they don't even exercise military health rights now. So the solution will be found, but I just want you to know that there's no need to ask a question as their protector. On the contrary, you were a representative of their interests in getting those pensions even though they were right there. At a meeting where we will decide on this, the vice-president of the government, Mr. Krkobibic, should also be present. He was in progress from the beginning, and now he would have to be involved and try to find a solution. And it would be quite logical if you didn't ask that question to me, but to ask it to him personally, here in the Assembly or at your party meeting, and that he would explain it to the public, because he was the one who, on your behalf, represented that interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54573	Do you want another two minutes? Yeah. ) National MP Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54574	Mr. Minister, first of all, I really have no reason to use any provocations or to present anything I haven't checked. It's true that I struggled to solve the problem. Where he'll be solved, that's another question, but I've struggled to solve these people's problem. Secondly, I have to tell you, you can be sure that part of these military pensioners lived in Belgrade, and they haven't moved from Belgrade in the last 20 years. Therefore, these people certainly could not have been Montenegrin pensioners. If there's any case, and there's more, like that, then obviously there was a problem in solving the status. Please, no matter what, they were officers of the Yugoslav Army, the former SFRY, I don't know which, in any case, were officers and officers, and for me they were still military pensioners, wherever they were. And for me to be on a party level right now to solve a pensioner's problem, I have no comment at all. I don't think it's one party that's going to solve this, but it's a matter for the government and the state to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54575	The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54576	Dear members of the government, honourable MPs, on behalf of the Bosniak List for the European Sandzak, I wanted to ask a few questions today. Some will, of course, be repeated. First of all, did the government, since it has not responded to me today, make an action plan for the economic development of Sandzak? If it isn't, why isn't it? If so, what is its contents? For Minister Mrkonjic, I have a question – at what stage is the construction of the Alexandrovac pipeline – Brus – Tutin – Novi Pazar? At what stage is the construction of the railway railway Raška – Novi Pazar? Since the first train in Raska came about 100 years ago, from Raska to Novi Pazar has 20 and a few kilometers, and he has been traveling for 100 and a few years now, at which stage is he now, where is he? The third question is building a highway for Belgrade -- the southern Adriatic. The previous government, as you know, has annulled the contract with the Alpina-Pore, and Corridor 11 hasn't started working yet. I am interested – at what stage is it, are we having talks, which is the stage of these talks, how are we having these talks, and will they end up in a positive way, given that this is one of the conditions for the faster economic development of Sandzak? The fourth question is the construction of a regional road called Novi Pazar – Tutin – Sjenica – Aljinovići. As we know, in this House we have ratified an agreement with Turkey, we have received 30 million loans, and by today, two years, that road is not working. We had a proposal and a question for the construction of the Stavalj thermal power plant – at which stage is it and does the government consider setting off this mine, increasing its capacity, to build a thermal power plant that could be one of the ways to develop Sandzak? As for the next question, I would like to ask the Minister of Health – is he planning to open a public health office in Novi Pazar, since we have hundreds of doctors and we do not have a public health office? You know that winter lasts for six months and how the roads are, that every day we send 120 kilometers of water for analysis, and we have a couple hundred doctors. I don't think that's a difficult question for the government and that it can do that. According to the Health Protection Act, we have the right to more than 500 and some health beds, and in Novi Pazar we have 320. Why don't we do it? (President: People's Parliament, you've used the time at your disposal. ) As far as education is concerned, I have a question for the Minister of Education to tell us – why don't we form a school administration in Novi Pazar for six Sanjak municipalities, since only in three municipalities, Sjenica, Tutin and Novi Pazar, we have more than 30,000 children?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54577	I ask the MPs to, if they have failed to be at the beginning, look at the members of 204 and 206, which define how to ask questions. I have a duty and a duty to interrupt the MP. I will not do this, because the institution of asking parliamentary questions is the most precious institute that can have one parliament, but then I ask you for co-operation, to respect our own rules of procedure and whether or not we want to show the answer with the content that we are talking about. Do any of the members of the government want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54578	Ladies and gentlemen, with special pleasure, I am attending the assembly session again, and I will also answer with special pleasure all the questions of my friend Mr Omeragic. Of course, Corridor 11, which is the highway from Belgrade, via Cačka, to Bar, or Bolar, goes according to dynamics as the government planned. It is now in the realization of shares between Ub and Lykovec, 12 and a half kilometers, and the deadline is April 1st next year. The works there run along the dynamics that were planned. Expropriation projects have been completed on shares from Obrenovac to Ub and from Lykovec to Ljig. The total length of those shares is about 50 kilometers. So, with the complete share from Obrenovac to Ljig, which we assume we'll start this year, and we can finish in a year, we'll have that part of the road done. That's 62 kilometers. You know, that's what I've talked about many times, to negotiate with some foreign countries to participate in the realisation of that highway. Specific negotiations are being conducted and pre-negotiated with Turkey for participation in the implementation of the project, and the finalisation of the agreement is also expected these days. In any case, our companies that are qualified to do this job will work together with foreigners to realize these two projects. The main projects are from Ljiga to Čačka and Požega, and the idea project is completed from Požega to Bolar, to the border with Montenegro. That's about Corridor 11. As for the road from Tutin, through Pazar, to the Shadow, just one thing to say. Although the first question asked by my colleague Omeragic was about the economic development of Sandzak, the government of the Republic of Serbia pays full attention and takes significant care of the area. Only in the local roads and those roads related (I call them so) to suburban settlements around Novi Pazar, Tutina and Sjenica, this year has been invested, already, about 300 million dinars. It is that segment that refers not to the roads of the first and second order, for which JP's "Serb Roads", or some highway, but to that local self-government, in which so much has been invested this year, for the past three months. Of course, whether it goes through the Ministry of Infrastructure or via JP "The Paths of Serbia", that's not what I'm talking about right now. So, the road from Tutina, via Novi Pazar, to Sjenica was planned, as counterpart Omeragic said, to enter a Turkish loan. Discussions are still being held on the scope of the work that will be done, whether it will be modernisation, reconstruction or something else, but in any case, it is planned to enter into full implementation this year, or through JP Roads of Serbia or through this loan (it is not important for now). That's what's about the Aljinovics. As for the bypass around Pazar, she has already entered the completion program this year. She has been in the JP "Serbia's Ways" programme so far and will be realised, I hope, this year. As for energy, both projects Mr. Omeragic spoke of were planned for implementation over the coming years. So in the investment plan of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, in the energy-related work, these two projects are planned for realisation. There are a lot of foreign stakeholders, especially for the section relating to the Elektran near Stavij. We'll see how it goes, but surely we won't forget that part of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54579	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stankovic. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54580	Mr. Omeragic, the discussions on the two questions you asked are already under way. The moment you make a proposal to set up a public health office, it will be discussed along with a request to increase the number by 90, a bed in the New Market medical center. So it's up to you to do it, and when you do it, we'll set up a meeting. It's a deal with Minister Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54581	MP Bajram Omeragic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54582	I mentioned these roads, this economic development infrastructure, and I'm sorry that Mr. Ciric left. We're talking about the future and these millions, now the minister has said. We invested 170m euros in Bor, and Sandzak's citizens are extremely glad that 5,000 people work there. We have sent more than 400m euros to Kragujevac, 920 people are working today. When we sold the Mottel, I asked for a billion and something. Now I'm asking, when we're in the sales phase of Telecom, there's going to be another billion and a half, that's three billion. Isn't it normal to say for 200 million -- this 200 million we're going to invest... ? As we invest in Bor, we build ski resorts on the Old Mountain, we build in other parts of Serbia. Here's the other day we opened the Simpa plant in Kursumlia, and that's positive, but we don't open any letters and numbers in New Pazar or in other parts of Sandzak. That's what I'm talking about. Last time I told Minister Ciric – Ministers, if you don't have a plan to work in Sandzak, you have two problems: I don't hire people and the other problem is – I fire people. If we give 10,000 euros to hire someone in Novi Pazar, and we don't get a foreign investor, so let's give 10,000 to the one who's already hiring 100 people in Novi Pazar, not to fire 100 people. Here's an idea. Many countries have freed taxes and contributed to undeveloped areas. It's good in the banking sector, subsidies, but let's free up to, for example, 31 December, all the companies in the undeveloped area that work in difficult conditions because they don't have highways, they don't have an airport, they don't have infrastructure, and that's how we make it easier for them. In time while we wait for foreign investors to give them 10,000. Why don't we give our homework, get her fired? We didn't want to do that either. It's a key question, and for the last time, I'm asking that the government prepare an emergency economic programme for Sandzak, because we have 51% of the unemployed. It's an African level of unemployment and I don't think that's good on the way to the EU. As MPs who support this government, we call on all ministers to do, here I call on Mr. Sutanovac to urgently make our textiles sew up military uniforms until foreign investors arrive, to get the police to sew uniforms, to help all those in the government who can, in some way, do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54583	Since none of the members of the government appears to give an additional answer, the word has been given by MP Miroslav Markicevic (three minutes).
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54584	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, I have a question for Mr Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Djelic, I don't know if you've been introduced in advance, as a member of the government, to the exposé Mr. Cvetkovic filed during the government's reconstruction, but I'll remind you of just one quote. Mr Cvetkovic said on 14 March this year: "I would like to say from this place that the Serbian government will not regret the effort to succeed in achieving this goal. Serbian citizens should live better today and now, and we will do everything possible to do so." Since it has been more than 30 days since the government's reconstruction, Mr. Djelic, I am asking you and I am giving you the opportunity to tell the citizens of Serbia what you have done in these thirty and a few days. Please be careful, there are hundreds of thousands of people watching us, Mr. Djelic, who don't have the bread to eat right now. What have you done to improve their standard? We see that every day the poverty threshold increases, we see that the price of electricity has jumped after the government's reconstruction, that you have proposed a law on property taxes and laid down on local self-government, that people can't pay taxes on apartments and houses, on that property, that the price of fuel has been raised, the collection of gas and tuition for students is being prepared. So I'm giving you a chance to answer the question of what you've done in these five minutes. Perhaps you had good intentions, and I have no doubt that you wanted to improve the standard of Serbian citizens. I can help you, since Mr Petrovic mentioned the price of 54.22 to the appointed question of MPs from his party. And I don't know why they'd even criticise the government of the ruling coalition when they voted in favour of the government's proposals...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54585	People's MP, that kind of address is not allowed by the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54586	Okay, I'll have two minutes more, like Mr. Sutanovac, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54587	You have to listen to me. This kind of address, directly, with the demeaning of fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, is not permitted by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask you to refrain from insulting, disdaining and violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to ask a question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54588	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, give me back the time you've taken from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54589	I now warn you that the violation of the Rules of Procedure implies my obligation to impose criminal measures. If you intend to continue to demean other participants in the session, to mock my obligation to take care of order at the session, I am at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54590	Mr. Djelic, I will, as if I hadn't heard this, continue. Is it possible that you... ? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54591	People's MP, I direct you to the provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which implies the obligation to treat other Members of the people with respect and to the chairman. (National MP Miroslav Markicevic leaves the hall. ) The National MP had just shown inadmissible behavior in the session of the National Assembly by banging the door and exiting the National Assembly’s session hall. I apologize to all the MPs and apologize to the citizens of Serbia for having to bear witness to such behaviour. I have a lot of understanding for MPs who don't want to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but the order is good. Order is good for all of us. Please work together to create order in the session of the National Assembly. Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic wants to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54592	I think whether MPs are present or not, since these are important issues for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they should be spoken of. Of course, two and a half years after the start of this unprecedented crisis, various countries in the region and Europe are recovering from the crisis. Some countries were the subject of a sudden and unexpected collapse, where the international community subsequently sought dragon measures of reductions and wages, such as working in Romania, by 25%, and in some other countries deep changes that were not the subject of a democratic debate at that time, but it was an emergency. The Republic of Serbia has maintained stability at all times. Three days after the government's reconstruction, the leading rating agency "Standard and Purs" improved our country's rating, and because both political and economic stability is preserved and the prospect of investment for our country is better than for some other countries in the environment. Unequivocally, at this point our country is going through an economic and social crisis. No one can be satisfied with the fact that our country has an unemployment rate of almost 20%, and that this rate is even higher in some parts of our country and for some generations, especially for young people and people of older age. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken a series of measures. I would not repeat what my colleague Dusan Petrovic just said, and that is one bold measure, well thought out, which, since it was bread, was actually about that type of bread that consumes 40% of our population, mostly poorer. That's how inflation was avoided in that domain. The government of the Republic of Serbia has intervened on other essential life-forms, such as sugar and edible oil, and through this intervention it is ensured that the price remains stable and in much lower than in some countries in the environment. It has recently entered into force and a new Social Protection Act, which has ensured that nearly 600,000 additional citizens of our country receive social support from the Republic of Serbia's budget and that additional expenditure is measured with several billion dinars in the 2011 budget. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as soon as real opportunities were formed for this, ensured that, in accordance with the law, incomes for those living from the budget and pensioners were increased by 5.5%. This happened 15 days ago and be assured, honourable MPs, that it is very clear to us that any indication of our economy's recovery is a priority, but on a healthy, stable, sustainable basis, we are increasing the standard of living for our citizens. In the mid-term, the right social measure is economic growth, investment. The fact is, since the beginning of the year, we have received several significant investments. We know that one of the leading Belgian trading companies is in the process of taking over 100% of the capital of the largest trade chain in our country. This is important for the whole economy, because, primarily, the amount of that money will be shifted to the settlement of debts to suppliers and banks. It'll be liquidity for all of them and it'll be good for our country. Mr. Ciric talked about it at some previous moment in this respected home. The investment is confirmed not only by the Fiata, but also by a series of other investments, by Panasonics, Beneton and many other firms that have decided this year, at this time of crisis, or to move certain production capacities from other countries to Serbia or to locate entirely new capacities in our country. The standard of citizens comes first. That is why he was first in the exhibition of Prime Minister Cvetkovic at the time of the government's reconstruction. We don't have a magic wand, but we're very clear that our first priority is to standard citizens and reduce the unemployment rate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54593	The word has a folk letter, Maria Bulgarcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54594	I would like to ask the question of Minister of Agriculture, Mr Petrovic. Before I ask you a question, Mr. Minister, I would like to quote your statement from 21 April this year – the government will support the development of livestock with cheap loans. The subsidies in the agrarian will be granted in May. We will have a clear plan that should lead to increased production, improved supply of domestic markets and strong exports. My particular question about this is – will you subsidize and export raspberries, and does this clear plan of yours include the export of raspberries? In fact, we know that there are currently about 15,000 tonnes of raspberries on the lager in the coolant in Serbia, and it is common that at this time of year there are about 5,000 tonnes of raspberries in coolers across Serbia. As for the price of the raspberries, for the first class, the blindd, currently paid (export price) 1.80 euros, for the second class, the bite, the price is 1.10 euros, and for the third class, the bloc, 0.70 euros. When we take the average price, it's 1.20 euros per kilogram of exported raspberries. Usually, in recent years, it has been 2.2-2.5 euros per kilogram, and with this move all refrigerators lose half a euro per kilogram. This situation is absolutely unsustainable and we'll have a big problem in a month if we don't solve something on this matter. Mr. Minister, in a month's time, the raspberries begin harvesting. Every year around May, every minister of agriculture, including your previous one, who mutilated the Ministry of Agriculture and did nothing for an agrarian in this country... What are you going to do about this and whether there will be some movement for these people, because we know that about a million people in an indirect or direct way participate in the production of raspberries and deal with some form of activity, from packaging to production, within this production? If the country does not start, i.e. You as minister, I hope you want to do this, seriously deal with this issue from the manufacturer himself, which is the first link in this chain, to the exporter in the end, we will have a big problem. The current plantations are about 12,000 hectares in our country, with a trend of growth. Each year it increases by five to seven percent of the area under plantations of various types of raspberries. We'll have a big problem if we keep going at this pace.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54595	Three minutes. Thank you. The word is Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54596	First of all, I want to say that Mr. Sasha Dragin did a number of very good things during his time as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think that for what is the government's strategic goal, which I am sure is that the party you are in, the LDP, puts it as a central topic and the most important issue, which is the approximation of the EU country, as quickly as possible, Minister Dragin has done extremely good things. This parliament has passed a large number of laws, the ministry has brought in a large number of sublaws, and the Government of Serbia, some very important institutions, such as the Agrarian Payments Administration, the National Reference Laboratory, which, however, should only be faxed to him in fact, both physically and with the people, but all these very important things have been done during Mr Dragin's ministry, and I want to give him credit at this time. We will have before the Agricultural Fair in Novi Sad, and that is what I want to say now in this high house and to announce to the public the Republic of Serbia, a fully-rounded system of agrarian policy measures. Of course, I'll come up with your question and your raspberries. We have one structural, major problem in our agriculture, which is that cattle production, unfortunately, in the total production volume and our social product in agriculture and food industry, which last year was four billion euros, was just 28.3%. Serbia must have 60% of livestock production, and 40% in plant production and change, and the structure will be the main goal of agrarian policy in 2011. Therefore, the main instrument will be subsidised loans and farmers will have very favourable loans at their disposal. But that's what I'm saying here -- the measure of agricultural development in Serbia is the measure of efficiency and the development of the food industry and the national interest of this country is to make the food industry as efficient and as best as possible. Because in the end, if a man is engaged in agriculture, whether in warfare or in livestock, if he does not sell what he produces to those who do processing, and in industrial processing, he can either use it for his own food or for the most he can do is to take it out to the market or sell it to some of his friends and to those who are in his environment, which is certainly not the way that in the 21st century in this country we can view it as a sustainable system. As far as fruit growing is concerned, Serbia is a country, and there you are absolutely right, which from year to year increases production and sales of fruit. We had a little under half a billion euros last year in production, in realisation. Exports have been greatly increased, since, apart from traditional customers of our goods, there has been a very significant demand from Russia from the EU and the countries in our environment, so from Cefta. We exported a lot of fruit to the Russian Federation last year. Last year, the raspberries had an extremely high price. So she had a good price for people who deal with the production of raspberries and they made a very good profit. We all need to be aware, and the producers of raspberries are, that Serbia is not the only country where the raspberries are produced. We very much depend on the production of raspberries in Poland, what production is in Chile. This year will be, it's already obvious, quite a high birth first of all in Poland. Together, we all closely follow what will happen with the price of the raspberries when in the month, or month and a half, we enter the harvest. Rest assured, this is what I want to tell our citizens, that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture we will do everything in our power to protect the interests of the raspberries producer in the best possible way, as we will do with other fruit producers and also with processors. Some meetings have already been held. In the past 15 days, we have entered a very serious process. As I said a moment ago, I brought in a quality-determining rule. I want to tell all the producers that they will be fully protected, that they will have a completely easy way of informing all the competent inspections and the Ministry of all the problems they have. I also want to say that we are working to remove together what is being removed from that, and that is a bad way that one part of the business in this business is going on. So it would be very good to go out with a regular way of paying in this area. We're going to call, and now I'm calling on all the producers, first the raspberries, and then other kinds of fruit, to make sure they have absolutely no other consequences when it comes to the state if with their commissioners, with those who sell the raspberries, they get into the cash-free payment modes. I call on them that if they don't, they open the jury accounts, they'll be safe, they'll be able to protect themselves completely, the state will help them and it won't pose any increased burden to them. That's what I'm trying to tell them. In this way, we will all be able to avoid the outflow of one sum of money to illegal proceedings in this kind of business. That's one set of facts I can tell you right now. I'm going to underline it one more time, I'm going to do everything possible to protect the interests of the manufacturer. And we all need to be fully aware that there are different years... (President: Minister, please complete the presentation. )......................................................................................................... I'm done, I'm sorry... There are different years, in some you go better, in some worse, and we'll help as much as we can, if the year isn't perfect, its consequences as little as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54597	The word is Maria Bulgarcic, the other three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54598	Thank you, Mr. Minister, but I didn't ask Mr. Dragin a question, I asked you. So you didn't have to defend him, so let me tell you first. Secondly, specifically, did you tell me you were going to help with the subsidy? Yes or no? That's all. Will there be export subsidies or will there be, for the family that was in 2010?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54599	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54600	At this point, I can't give you an answer to that question because it's not possible to raise the issue of raspberries from the question of all other fruit types. When we have a clear picture, and that will certainly be before the raspberries begin harvesting, we will give an answer to that question. I will once again say - everything that is in the power of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture, and in this case it is primarily about how much the budget is and how much money for different purposes can be deployed, I will answer that question. They won't start harvesting raspberries so people don't know what they can count on.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54601	Do you want two minutes? No, I don't. I thank you. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54602	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Dear Ministers, my first sentence will be immediately a question for the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic – why does Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic never come to these sessions? We in the Assembly regularly, every last Thursday of the month, have three hours to ask questions to the members of the government and I don't even remember if the foreign minister has ever been to one of these sessions. While other ministers always find time, stay here, answer very unpleasant questions, until the foreign minister finds it appropriate to come to the Assembly, except once a year, to the board of directors. The reason for my question is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, sent a letter to UN Secretary General Ban Kimun on 19 April asking the Security Council to appoint a reporter for the KIM organ trafficking case. This, in other words, means that Serbia is determined at this point to see that it needs an objective and impartial investigation, but under UN auspices, and in view of the report by the Council of Europe rapporteur Dick Marty, so my question is - what does the government do to ensure the support of a Security Council member to lead the investigation into crimes in Kosovo under the auspices of the UN? That's another question. Why a UN-sponsored investigation is needed, it is also in the government's request, which is, above all, that the investigations are mainly on all war crimes committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, some are still under way, led by the UN, or the Security Council. The second, also important reason is that in this case information must be collected in several states. Therefore, it will not be just one area covered by the investigation or investigation, but it will be more than one country. So there is the reputation and authority of the UN inexplicable. Given that the foreign minister is not here, I would like Minister Snezana Malovic to answer this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54603	Do any of the members of the government want to give an answer? Yeah. ) Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54604	This issue was a special session of the Assembly, when we discussed the report by Dick Marty on human organs trafficking, and then for several hours all the powers that the Republic of Serbia has and the measures that we took to make the facts about this event even reach the public and what we did in the matter of drawing up the report by Dick Marty. Your question, as I understand it, was focused on why the Republic of Serbia or the Government of the Republic of Serbia insisted that this event be processed by... (OK, I'll tell you my understanding, and you'll have the right to ask an additional question. )......................................................................................................... , leads by an independent body under the auspices of the Security Council. As you yourself have concluded, the reasons for this were, firstly, to protect the witnesses. Because we are aware of what has been happening to witnesses in the KIM area in the proceedings before the International Criminal Tribunal and, in the end, it is one of the basic conclusions that Dick Marty made in his report – that, if we want to establish the truth at all, it is necessary to provide adequate protection to the witnesses. Secondly, as I said, as you pointed out yourself, it is the territories of different countries – and the territory of KIM, but also the territory of Albania, where camps were found. Therefore, the conclusion that such an investigation could and could best be prosecuted by a court that would be ad hoc, which would be in charge of the UN Security Council. But on this occasion, I want to point out one more fact. It is incorrect that we, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, insist that this be exclusively in the jurisdiction of the ad hoc court and that nothing has been done on our domestic territory on this issue. I'm going to tell you that exactly the activities of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and it has come to this question being raised in the international forum, means in front of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and many of the things in the report by Dick Marty are precisely the result of the work of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. There is still a pre-criminal procedure in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and everything we manage to do on that matter, of course, the public will be informed. Of course we'll do everything we can to get to the truth and find out everything about these events.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54605	Do you want the next three minutes? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54606	Thank you. You didn't listen to my question. I asked what the government is doing specifically, what activities it is doing to provide support in the Security Council. That was the question. So all you're saying is true and I, of course, agree with what you said, but I asked for concrete activities -- what kind of lobbying is, as it affects the Security Council... ? I know at this point there is, we think there is a majority, but it's not... Maybe I should have waited for the foreign minister to come here, but it'll be too late by then. So, another question is there – is the foreign minister's entire government, all ministers behind this initiative, and did you provide support for the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic for this initiative? I ask because the whole public knows, MPs know what happened last July after the opinion of the International Court of Justice, when the government of the Republic of Serbia sent a motion for a resolution on KIM, which also reached the Security Council, and then they said from the EU that it could not go to the Security Council, and then our proposal was completely amended and did not look like the first one at all. Now I'm going back to this proposal to the Security Council. As soon as the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted the initiative, we immediately heard reactions from the EU that this subject should not be a matter of international investigation or that there is no place in the UN, but that it can all be done by Eulex. Last year, by withdrawing our motion for a resolution, we were quite embarrassed as a state. We showed and told all those countries that had their ambassadors in that assembly, and it is i-hi-hi, that if enough pressure is applied on Serbia, it will change its mind. Can you tell me here that the government is firmly behind this definition and that the pressures that come from the EU every day will not affect our determination?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54607	Minister Snezana Malovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54608	This is a question primarily directed towards the foreign minister, but of course, as a member of the government, I will be happy to answer your question. As I said, there was a special session of the Assembly on this issue, attended by the Prime Minister, which speaks enough about the activities taken under the leadership of the Foreign Ministry being not only the Prime Minister, but the entire government. I think it's completely unsettled whether the government is behind the foreign ministry's activities. Of course it stands, of course decisions are made at the level of the government, and each of the resolution ministries is responsible for implementing those decisions. But I want to expand my answer a little bit and ask what the Foreign Ministry is doing to provide support for its activities. The fact that this issue has been discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is enough to say that international support has also been obtained in such a forum as the Council of Europe. A part of your question will be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54609	Do you want to use two minutes? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54610	I don't think my question is inconsistencies, based on the experience that we have in the work of this government and the foreign minister who very often looks like he's running some independent action. At the last session of the Foreign Affairs Committee, it was drastically seen, both in front of the cameras and the MPs who were there, some kind of diversity, so my question was too much. I'm glad to hear you're all behind this decision, or initiative. Secondly, when it comes to Eulex, who imposes on us the EU as someone who will solve this issue more effectively because it has the capacity to resolve it, I assume you know that most of the reports coming from a member of the Eulex are also coming to the European Parliament. This is considered on various committees, and they are generally of the opinion that the results are nothing, that they are weak. What the DSS thinks of Eulex is one thing, but it really turned out that this organization, the mission that decided to build a legal state of the so-called. The countries of Kosovo have no results. They couldn't even move when it came to witness protection. You know well as the Minister of Justice what it means and what a prerequisite for any investigation, anywhere, that there is a valid witness protection. So Eulex isn't the body that can do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54611	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS parliamentary issue is extremely pragmatic. It refers to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads and its application in practice. Unfortunately, Minister Dacic is not present today, but I think it is important that this topic be opened too, because so far we have not had the opportunity to get real information from that ministry. We have addressed ourselves as a party, using our right to information of public importance, and by the Ministry we have received some response, which is extremely inappropriate, in the sense that the Ministry has a legal basis for replacing registration plates in some members where no registration plates are mentioned at all. The Transport Safety Act has introduced some newspapers that are no doubt good for the security of traffic in the future and which will in some way return to this society and to all drivers through increased security, but has introduced some obligations that, in our opinion, were not necessary at this time. This is quite a detachment for all drivers, more specifically the owners of motor vehicles in Serbia, and this expenditure will amount to about 50m euros this year. We do not have any valid explanation by the Ministry on the basis of which the law has led to the introduction of this obligation, because it is a provision with a return fact, which means it must have been based on a member of the Transport Safety Act to define the need for new registration plates. We have a fact that these license plates have been valid for seven years. One of the reasons that we do not see fit is that we are approaching European standards and that we are expected to do so, although it is clear to all of us that there are no single tables for all EU countries and that this problem is not common or regulated at EU level. But on the other hand, we have a fact that, and when it comes to passports and ID cards, we have some economic operators that make a very large and serious profit when it comes to replacing Serbian citizens' travel documents, in this case driving licenses and license plates. Our particular question, and we have already referred it to the MUP, but we have not received the answer, is the following – whose order has this decision been made? I think it's necessary for that act to be delivered. I hope one of the government's representatives can respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54613	The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54614	Shule advised me something, and I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54615	Minister, please, the way to address the session is – the name and last name of the participants of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54616	I remind Mr Antic, my fellow MP, that the Law has been passed in the co-operation of two ministries – the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, as it is now called. So we took part in the realisation of that law. Obviously, he wasn't criticizing it, he was supporting it, right? The results of this bill are already good today. We had an international traffic safety conference yesterday, where there were over 50 countries that gave full support, from whose data, at least from those first discussions we heard yesterday and this morning, see how much that law means to us. We've already reduced the number of deaths, accidents, etc. Of course, there are many things that our citizens must accept. It's primarily for the safety of citizens, not because the state wants to impose. But as far as these two issues are concerned, they are in the sole jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior. I'll tell Mr. Dacic in person tomorrow morning this question of yours and you'll get a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54617	The second three minutes, MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54618	In the part where traffic security is improved, the Serbian Progressive Party has no objections. The remark is literally addressed to the Ministry of the Interior and refers to the registration tables, to the reasons why the replacement was needed. As far as the effects of the Law are concerned, this could be rather debated. In the past few days, the minister has boasted much that 19% of the less dead, 10% less injured, but I would remind you that the sales of derivatives have decreased by about 35%, which means that in the last year, much less has been driving along Serbia's roads, that the decline of standards has significantly affected this and that our citizens' economic situation has been significantly threatened. If we go with that logic, it can be said that even that percentage is not satisfactory. So that's another topic and I wouldn't get into it. But another problem arises, these are the prices of new registration plates and traffic permits, so you can possibly pass on that question to Mr. Dacic. The price of registration plates is 2,000 dinars, traffic licenses of 1,200 dinars, 400 dinar stickers. According to some estimates, which I think the minister himself confirmed, the production price is four times lower than the price charged to Serbian citizens. Is such a profit necessary for someone and who is this person who has provided himself with such a profit? I'm saying this because Minister Dacic himself said it, I think, about six months ago in an interview with Blic. And that is necessary for you to pass on to Mr Dacic, and I hope that, as a parliamentary group, we will get an adequate answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54619	Does anyone want to comment, ask an additional question? No, I don't. ) The word is a folk letter from Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers and Madam Minister, I will ask the question here today to the present Mr. Health Minister, Dr. Professor. Zoran Stankovic, which refers to developments in Serbia's health system and also to Serbia's health system attitude towards healthcare users. Over the past ten years, there has been a gradual but secure collapse of Serbia's citizens' health. Serbia's health system is too smooth. We're in the gross social product of the country where health care is the most isolated, about 11%, and by the results we're the last. It also shows the fact that there are fewer and fewer of us every day. We're born less, and we die more. Also, since 5 October, the health ministry has shaken numerous affairs. Here we are these days faced with large affairs, which not only shake up the Ministry of Health, but also concern the entire population of Serbia. The fact is that you, Mr. Minister, did not know about this, so I would like to ask you the first question on this occasion – how is it possible that there is no rabies vaccine in the Republic of Serbia in the 21st century and how is it possible that you as a minister do not know that there is no vaccine? That's what you said in Kruševec, 27th this month. Mr. Minister, that is not the only thing that has shaken the citizens of Serbia. I don't know if you can imagine how these seven people, which the stray dog bit in the center of Kursumlia, felt all these 48 hours, until they were supposed to receive the rabies vaccine, what kind of hell were they living in, and what were their thoughts? Also, these days, after nearly seven days, we learned (I don't know if you've been informed about it) that, unfortunately, in the House of Health in Novi Sad, there was a death of a fellow citizen. That's what the media wrote, but you didn't say anything about it. The SRS is in contact with Serbian citizens daily. Serbian citizens are unhappy with the difficult and bad situation in health. They speak to us for help and pray that we ask you questions. One of the questions is, here is today the unfortunate mother of a daughter who passed away at the Easter at the Urological Clinic in Belgrade, so I would ask you a question – have you recently visited the Urological Clinic in Belgrade? Have you recently visited a clinic in Serbia? If there are such poor hygiene conditions as this fellow citizen in Belgrade claims, what are they like down in southern Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54621	The word is made by Minister Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54622	Thanks for asking. First, I want to tell you that the rabies vaccine was there, and there is, and as you yourself know, that these people, who were bitten by a dog, were given the service that was needed, however, by a competent epidemiologist in Kursumlia did not know how to get the vaccine. While I was in Kruševec, on a tour of the Medical Centre, I was asked why there is no vaccine in Serbia and I said – we will investigate and urgently resolve it. So I didn't claim we didn't have a vaccine. That's the answer to the first question. As you have seen, today it has been confirmed that the dog is not infected with rabies and that there was no need for this vaccine to be given. There were also certain things that first came to public information, not the Ministry of Health, as should be common. Why is it like that, as in other cases, it's another matter for discussion. This woman who died in Novi Sad, when we got that information right away, a news story came up in the paper, but if you read what it says at the end of it, it's said that nurses are overloaded and that they registered that nurses are sleeping and that a problem of staff is needed and then they are asked to make urgent decisions to change people. What's in my jurisdiction, it was that immediately, and before anyone reacted, I order a health inspection, which was directed to determine the situation, and given that it is Article 264. The Law on Health Protection The District Government, both in charge of setting up and replacing and punishing those responsible, is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and this finding of health inspections will be referred to them for decision. It is concluded that there has been a failure and that this person died as a result of a medical neglect, that it is a diabetic, however, no postmortem has been performed so far and the results of the autopsy are unknown that it could be reasoned on this. It's about that second case. This unfortunate mother you're talking about, and she's always talking about some third parties, her name and her last name, and I'd like to take a specific case to question and tell her what it is. For your information, in a month and a half, as far as I'm at the head of the ministry, I've visited the health centres of Književac, Valjevo, Loznica, Kruševac, Trstenik, Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Belgrade Clinical and Hospital Centre and a number of other institutions, and I've had the opportunity to see what conditions these people are working on. I have to tell you that when these centers are visited, given how much resources are allocated to health care, the situation is much better than many think it is. I also have to tell you that the international community estimated that Serbia is 56th in the quality of providing health services. So it's not among the last, as you say. At the same time, I have to tell you the following, and in the previous period I talked about it on several occasions – for 1,200,000 people who have no income, the state has allocated 520 dinars on an annual level to provide health services. That means that 1,200,000 people can buy, say, two boxes of medicine and nothing more than that. I can tell you that the budget of the Ministry of Health is lower than 2007 by 50%, that it is at the level of 2003 and that there are huge material deficiencies for the functioning of the health system. We're ready to discuss all the issues and activities that you're talking about openly, with facts and parameters, and to inform the public, but they've been kind of... You also had that situation with a lack of local anaesthetics at the Vojvodina Clinical Center, so it turns out they're guilty of not having local anaesthetics, because it's in their jurisdiction to get it, and because of their failures, there was no anaesthetics. What needs to be known must be the difference between the Ministry of Health and the Republic Health Insurance. The health ministry is an institution that doesn't deal with the supply of drugs. The Ministry of Health is an institution that does not pay salaries to employees, but does so by the Republic Health Insurance Institute. The Ministry of Health is responsible for legislation, for staff and some other things I wouldn't particularly want to...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54623	Minister, the time available for your answer has been used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54624	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54625	The second three minutes, MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54626	I'd like to say I'm not completely satisfied with what Mr. Secretary said. First, because, Mr. Minister, you have made it clear and decided in several newspapers that there is no vaccine against rabies anywhere in Serbia, not even in Belgrade or Nis. It's not true that the epidemiologist in Kursumlia didn't know that Nis and Pirot were in charge, that they were the only institutions that could give the vaccine against rabies. There are only 27 vaccines in Serbia. A vaccine against rabies can't be administered, like a bite vaccine, a tetanus vaccine, in every home of health. So you made that statement, and now you can change your statement. When I said we were on the results... We may not be the last in the world, 56th in the world, but tell me where we are in Europe, that's what I said. As for this woman who died, her autopsy report will be forwarded to the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, or to the provincial ministry. Did you, Mr. Minister, separate Vojvodina from Serbia this way? I think the Ministry of Health should also, Republicly, have that report, because this case should no longer be repeated. This isn't a new case, this isn't a unique case, this is repeated every day. There was data and information that people die because of haughtiness, because of unhygiene, because of poor services, and because of everything that unfortunately happens in health care. That's what you need to talk about normally and publicly, and that kind of thing should be sanctioned. As for the response to the Republic Health Insurance Institute, when he was your predecessor, there was good mutual cooperation between the Republic Institute and the Ministry of Health. However, now that you are in power, there are unresolved relations between the Republic Health Insurance Institute and the Ministry of Health, although the Republic Health Insurance Institute is part of the health system. You said that's where the salaries are taken, that the drugs are being obtained, that it's part of the health system. How are you going to solve this problem with the Republic Health Insurance Office, I don't know, but you have to solve it with the directors of the facilities that you're setting up, which you're setting up. These are people who need to know if in their homes of health, if there are medicines in their health centers that they need, not the Republic Health Insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54627	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Zoran Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54628	I must tell you that your conclusions are the fruit of completely unfounded data. First of all, no one said there were problems with the Republic Health Insurance Institute, I just listed what his responsibilities were. If you did not know, the Republic Health Insurance Institute may be part of Serbia's health system, but it is a completely autonomous state institution, which independently works and independently makes decisions without the influence of the Ministry of Health, except for some controversial things concerning the pricing of medicines, etc. They make their own decisions. When it comes to the Vojvodina, I didn't separate her and don't impute something that doesn't stand. I quoted a member of the law as saying that he who is the founder of health institutions is making a decision on the appointment and resolution of the director. In particular, the Vojvodina Clinical Center is the government of Vojvodina. She's her founder and she's the one who's setting up and solving the director. Therefore, and if I will, it is not in my jurisdiction. And what I've done, it's that the health inspection has done its job and she's going to get to know the District Department of Health. Then, among other things, what you claim about these deficiencies in health institutions, I didn't say they were gone, but there are health institutions that are top-notch, there are parts of health institutions that satisfy all the answers. And, I must tell you, with the resources available to the health care department, the health ministry is achieving very good results. If you can arrange for 1,200,000 people with 520 dinars per year for a patient to organize some high health care, such as in some developed countries, then I'd like you to tell me how it's done. Therefore, all of this in health care is still a social category and health care professionals provide maximum, given the material opportunities and benefits available to healthcare.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54629	Although 19.00 hours have passed, Parliamentarian Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic has the right to his two minutes. The word of the MP in this kind of session must be the last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54630	I fully agree with you that most healthcare professionals, and I am a health care professional, advocates that health care services are provided to the maximum, but there are exceptions. When I asked you if you'd visited a clinical center, you said you'd visited the Serbian Clinical Center, but you didn't tell me it was at the Urological Clinic, which is also part of the Serbian Clinical Center. That's one thing. Secondly, we know that the dog is not angry, but what would happen if the dog were angry? When would those people receive vaccines? They have to receive vaccines within 48 hours, and that deadline is up. We got this information now this afternoon, about 14-15 hours, and they were supposed to take that vaccine this morning. Also, I believe that when the health budget was formed (you weren't there then), you should have removed some items, such as these items of the labour contract, so that now, at this time, you can't "take out" on an annual basis for the unemployed. This is necessary, and it is necessary, but from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, many items that are unnecessary to allocate much greater funds for these people who are not working and for whom these funds should be allocated. As far as the Republic Institute is concerned, you say it's an institution that's independent. However, there is also the Agency for Medicinal Products. I don't know what their touch points are like. He can't work without your ministry, he can't work without health care institutions, he can't be independent and completely differentiated, autonomous from other health institutions, because then he wouldn't exist. It exists because of Serbia's health system.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-28-0.u54631	Thank you. Since we no longer have time to ask parliamentary questions, i.e. it has already been 19.00 hours, we are finishing today's session in which MPs are asking parliamentary questions to members of the government. I thank you all for your participation. On the basis of Article 90(2), I would like to inform you that we will continue our work on May 5th, Thursday, at 10:00 p.m., at a session that is under way. Since we're having our initial holidays, I want all of us to want to work even more on both first-class oranges and after them. I wish everyone a good time and a pleasant first-class holiday.
