ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55709	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 113 MPs. I would like to remind you that Article 168 is Section 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that any proposal to put the act on the agenda under emergency procedure during the session of the National Assembly shall be decided immediately upon receipt of the proposal, provided that the sittings are attended by most of the total number of MPs, so I ask you to establish the quorum. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are in the hall, which means there are working conditions. No one informed that he was prevented from attending the session. We move on to a proposal to put on the agenda of the acts under emergency procedure during the session, in accordance with Article 168(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Committee on the Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to put on the agenda of the session -- a list of candidates for a member of the National Educational Council, submitted to the National Assembly on 18 May 2011. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 123 MPs were declared. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. We move to the 18th item of the agenda: – The list of members of the National Education Council, submitted by the Committee on Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before the search opens, I would like to remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be distributed as follows: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the parliamentary group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. The mandated representative of the SRS is Dragan Stevanovic. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on the list of candidates for a member of the National Educational Council. Does the Committee of Education's rapporteur, the MP, Dr. Zoran Shami, want a word? He's not present. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find it appropriate or I consider it a commitment, on behalf of the SRS, to open one question today, a problem that we don't open for the first time, but I think it's very useful to open it up again and I think the subject that we're talking about today is something that's really opening up an opportunity or a prelude to something like that. In fact, it is a problem that the SRS has been talking about on several occasions from this pay phone, which is a problem that has been emerging in Bosilegrad for several months and years, a problem that apparently has not been treated by the state in an adequate manner, a problem that has not stopped itself, a problem that is developing and threatens to poison that good environment, the environment in which good people live, the environment in which Serbs and Bulgarians live in harmonic relations, a little Serb that has there. What is dangerous, which a very, very small group of people, using certain rights and freedoms, their national position, raises the constitutional order of this country. If you ask me what this has to do with this agenda point, I will openly say that the SRS is asking all the competent people in the Assembly and the state to review the composition of the National Educational Council and, unless there are no representatives of the Bulgarian national community there, we are asking and insisting that people who will in an adequate way represent the Bulgarian national minority and community, who will adequately present their needs in the context of education, preservation of cultural, national, religious and any other identity. That things stand very badly and dangerously suggests the fact that another number of newsletters or newsletters, as they call it, the Cultural-Informative Centre in Bosilegrad, in which, unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia is called five or ten people in Bosilegrad who know what words, expressions or categories are hidden behind very beautiful and decent covers. What the SRS expects, repeat and underline, is that the state finds an adequate way and reacts that this monster in Bosilegrad, which is being sown by the Cultural Information Centre and five people in it, is stopping. You are well aware that we reacted when a group of 11-12 buses were to arrive in Bosilegrad, to allegedly organise a rally against Serbia, or in connection with the 91st year of the Najski Agreement. Public security in Serbia then did the job properly, but the bottom line is that some other state authorities have not recognised enough space and reasons to react, as the SRS considers their operation in Bosilegrad in a very open and eclastane way the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia is at stake. When you see the front page, you see the kids. These are on a holiday, as they call the Easter holidays in Bosilegrad, children who were divided in Bosilegrad on Friday, respected gentlemen from the ruling majority. They divided them into those who finished school in Bosilegrad and eight-year-olds who finished school in Bulgaria. You know who shares them and the different music organizes each other? The head of the school, first of all, is Methodi Chipev, who receives a salary from this country. It's very nice to crash and spit in the country, and that same country is funding and paying you. This gentleman is not the only one, in this family and the team that sows and dissents in Bosilegrad are people who also receive salaries on other grounds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, their family members receive salaries from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and they meet the smell, divide and dissension in one municipality that has shown back years the will and commitment to be in Serbia, to be loyal and to share all the problems and troubles that we all have together in Serbia today. When you go through the pages of this cultural and information centre newsletter, you will find everything just not to cultivate the cultural, religious, national or any other values of the Bulgarian national minority. Even I managed to shave on their pages, half of this newsletter is my congregation talk. I would like any of you to tell me if this has anything to do with the cultural, traditional, religious or any other position of the national minority of Bulgarians in Serbia. What is dangerous is that the gentleman who deals with this business does not choose either the way, the targets, or the methods that will be brought down on the representatives of this state, and representatives of the government, and representatives of the Serbian Orthodox Church and police representatives. I'll point out a few things that might wake you up to react. There is talk here about the threatened rights of the Bulgarian national minority, and it is said that Boris Tadic has entered one ear, and another came out that in talks Boyko Borisov, prime minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, and that the position and rights of the Bulgarian national minority in Serbia are still at stake. To make the irony bigger, Serbian police are called communist police, using Serb-Communist methods, and what is undermining is that there is a system collapse in Bosilegrad and the disintegration of all services, from police, military and even BIA. In these texts, of course, I don't take them for evil, it doesn't matter, and the SRS is mentioned in a very negative context. I'm mentioned in some way as a folk MP that I'm part of that dirty and incompetent BIA. I'm not part of that agency, but obviously, given the things that are going on and going on, that this agency is doing nothing up there, because working five people in Bosilegrad would really be processed, because there are a lot of elements and basics, and legal and constitutional, that the state sanctions and deals with those people who sow hate. What is also devastating for the SRS is that they have committed an attack on the SPC and I would not want to abuse a pay phone, or use it to present the way the SPCs have been called in this newsletter. Among other things, they said the bishop Vranjski Pahomija had made a stop for the church for Serbian radicals, for the communists and for the police. They called the ruler SPC immoral, that he was silver-loving, that he was ungodly, etc. The SRS asks and repeats, and the cultural, or national educational council, representatives of the government, you in most – is there not enough reason for the state to react to all this? We can dispute the political and political pressures, attacks or discredition to endure, politics for such a thing and serve, but in such a brutal way, the regulation of this newsletter is addressed by the SPC and it is indeed inaccessible in sites that are allegedly engaged in culture, information and education of the Bulgarian national community in Bosilegrad. They accused you of being promoters of large-scale Serbian politics and that's what the SRS is most in the way of. The creator, creator of ideas and ideologies of Serbia is Vojislav Seselj. What's devastating is that they're accusing you of something like that, you who, we're listening right now, are not able to keep what we have, which is KIM. Those same people in Bosilegrad also did not mind being under the flag of Greater Serbia, under the flag of the SRS during the period behind us being MPs in this assembly, being vice-presidents of the Assembly, being ministers in the government, which the SRJ, that of the Republic of Serbia, was. At the time, the great Serbia and the great Serbian nationalism did not bother them. The SRS has, in fact, shown through these procedures the attitude towards national minorities and generally towards members of these national minorities. Your definition that everyone has the same position and treatment in this country we have thus shown. Here is an objective question – why does the state not respond, why does the state allow five people in Bosilegrad to sit down, make problems and call Serbia all those words that you will recognize and read on the pages of this newsletter? I will read to you only one subtitle -- friends, no problem, Western provinces will return to Bulgaria, and young people will leave Serbia massily. Is this sentence sufficient reason for this council and everyone else in Serbia to respond, from the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Police and all those services, organisations and institutions in charge of safeguarding constitutional order? These people who hide behind culture and education accuse you of not accepting the alleged genocide in Srebrenica and not admitting it. These people are in contact with the position of the people in KIM and demand that their problem of the western provinces be solved just as KIM solves the problem. We believe there is nothing that the authorities limit to reacting in this situation, no rights to Bulgarians in Bosilegrad are at risk. In this paper, Mr. Petrov, they asked you to respond to my statements against the Bulgarian national community. I am deeply convinced that you have recognized something that would drive you to react and you know very well what my relationship and the relationship of the SRS towards the Bulgarian national community in Bosilegrad and in the areas where this national community lives. They accuse you of keeping your mouth shut because there's no reason to react, because you have no reason to oppose the attitude and opinions that you obviously share with us. That's what we're talking about. Who knows how many times we've talked and talked? One example, which is also related to the subject we're talking about today. In Bosilegrad, only 15 families, i.e. 15 children at the beginning of this school year, expressed their desire to learn Bulgarian as their mother tongue, and all others experience Serbian as their mother tongue. What kind of endangered rights are we talking about? Here on the pages of this newsletter, which should deal with the cultural and educational position of the Bulgarian national minority, pictures of the murderers of King Alexander are being installed. I was identified by an MP who called at the time of Prince Milos to kill anything that was smart and educated, because they are causing a problem for Serbia. Gentlemen, this bulletin is printed in Serbia, but is funded by someone who does not think well of Serbia, or by Serbian-Bulgarian relations, and at least by the Bulgarian national minority. Behind this, gentlemen, are the people who welcomed and protested your Prime Minister Cvetkovic in Sofia. I don't like Mirko Cvetkovic, I don't like him, I don't like him, he didn't do anything smart for Serbia, but he's the Serbian prime minister, and if you don't respond to that, should we call you, to raise your conscience to this? The Serbian team in Sofia played and looked into the transparency that we terrorists, murderers, I don't know what Bulgarian national minorities are, to terrorise them for 91 years. But believe me, that's not what the Bulgarian people in Bosilegrad think, that's not what the Bulgarian people in Dimitrovgrad mean. That thinks five or ten people, namely I can give you the names, last names and addresses of those people, and I want you to finish with them this job and this story, that this sowing of evil, division and untruth is over. Therefore, the SRS believes that you should put someone in the National Educational Council who will in an authentic way represent and express the interests of the Bulgarian national minority, and children and all others living in Serbia. To make sure that the Republic of Serbia truly sees Serbia as their own, to allow them to go to school in Nis, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, not under some very suspicious circumstances and conditions of their educational and educational ambitions in Pernik, Sofia, Custendil or I don't know where they're going, that they come here with diplomats who arrive in half a year just because they accept what someone in Bulgaria is asking them to do. We don't blame these people, because they live hard, and we'd like to all help these people out there together. In this context and in this sense, the SRS is really open to every story, but what the SRS requires of you is to wake up the institutions of this country and stop the sowing of evil and poison from the Cultural Information Centre. It is five people: Ivan Nikolov, Dimitar Dimitrov, Methodi Chipev and several others. These are people who are in education, these are people who are on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. You have enough mechanisms and arguments to stop this sowing of evil.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55711	Do any of the presidents, or representatives, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted by the SRS and ZES parliamentary groups. I give my word to the People's Messenger, the Messengers to the Prophet of the Prophet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55712	To the People's MP, you said right at the beginning, the Verse of Radeta. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what the assembly majority is doing with parliament is really inappropriate and you in the regime are responsible for the low rating of the National Assembly in the people. You are doing it fully consciously and completely on purpose, because, among other things, the dictatorship of the president of the state of Boris Tadic is made possible, because dictators are decorated by the fact that they actually rule and dictatorship through institutions. The way you work in this institution is something that is absolutely unacceptable and we in the SRS are protesting the most strongly about it. This isn't the first time. We know that you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, can put this item on the agenda, but this is the third time that you at the end of the session, that the MPs of the opposition don't even know what you're up to, and then you from most of the only ones know what the subject is going to be, and then you put on the agenda such a point of view, so that it goes unnoticed, that eventually the MPs are unprepared to discuss and to make their point of view about it. Of course, you showed yesterday how much you don't care about the integrity of the National Assembly, when we're talking about a very important law, I apologize for this digression, very quickly I'm going back directly on the subject, but this is simply connected, because it is talking about your relationship with parliament, yesterday you showed that you don't care at all to preserve Parliament's integrity. You personally, though, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, were not present, but that neither frees you from responsibility nor changes things, because whoever replaces you should be responsible for what he does and should work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You may not know, we discussed yesterday the amendments to the Law on People's Law that we did not get an opinion from an authorised representative all day about amendments that were not accepted. It's a big business failure. Of course, we can't go back on that subject, but this is just for the public's sake, because yesterday we're not allowed, no one, to say that sentence. Every time We say, "We were interrupted, and you did not, so that it would not be heard in public." Here, I used this to let the citizens of Serbia know how you actually work. Today, the proposal, as you have written, is on the agenda, which has been jointly submitted by the national councils of the national minorities on the selection of the second half of the members of the National Educational Council, in accordance with Article 165. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System was discussed a long time ago, we from the SRS also had objections to the formation of this National Council, because we knew that everything that was under the form of a national abuse and that these were actually exclusively intertwined institutions. Here's an example today with this National Educational Council. You're saying here that the second half of the members of the National Educational Council are being filled, and we of the SRS are asking you what about the resolved member of the National Council, Slobodan Pavlovic? I think we need to remind ourselves, maybe you forgot, and here we are, among other things, here and remind you of all your failures. The Republic's budgetary inspection of the finance ministry eventually ended the six-month financial control of Slobodan Pavlovic, a member of the National Educational Council and director of the Law-Birotechnical School in Belgrade. It turns out that the financial inspection found a series of irregularities and established a large amount of money embezzlement by Mr. Slobodan Pavlovic. It says budget inspection that the director of this Pavlovic illegally increased monthly earnings during 2006 and 2007, causing the budget to be damaged by 278,355,65 dinars. These workers need to get that money back, it's a budget inspection warrant. The director Pavlovic concluded contracts with some of his people, of course without public procurement for the publishing of textbooks, and some of these textbooks bought schools directly from the printing industry, and then sold them to students. It is very important that you remember and that the public remember that Pavlovic was mixing with textbooks because in the end we will find out what he is in connection with the publishing of textbooks now. The director also concluded contracts for work with certain persons he had chosen, so the budget inspection found that illegal payments of the school's work contract damaged 65,844 dinars. So he then charged regular students a fee despite the general knowledge that regular schooling is free, at least formally, and students' parents best know how free it is. In 2003, he took and damaged his students and parents for 4.590,359 dinars. The school is also obliged to pay back this money. When I say school, of course, Serbian citizens, because schools are funded from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Only for painting, which is not foreseen by the financial plan, Mr. Slobodan Pavlovic spent 1,942,320,20 dinars. He did not forget that he was calculating diaries for himself and his assistant for his trip abroad and in that way, beyond what he regularly gets, but what he took with abuse, he damaged directly students or parents by 22.280.64 dinars. At the team director of Law School and National Council member Slobodan Pavlovic then spent 97,016,38 dinars in 2006, and 81,493,67 dinars in 2007. Imagine, Mr. Pavlovic, on the burden of the school budget, signed and paid for the invoices that included, among other things, a tip. So, the tip that paid somewhere in the pubs went to the school's cargo. In this way, directly to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are in charge of the budget, is damaged by 4,131,00 dinars. The total damage caused by such mixed activities by Director Slobodan Pavlovic is 7.534.128.94 dinars. Now imagine what that amount represents for the Republic of Serbia's budget, and then what it represents for education. The budget inspection has ordered all these funds to be returned. Of course, to get them back to school because he didn't have them, spent them, and who knows who he gave them all to and what business he had in mind. This is what the budget inspection found. Otherwise, let's remind the story when I mentioned what the National Educational Council means to you and what national means to you at all. It implies only the most serious abuse and involves the fact that your staff is being entrenched into very tempting and interesting functions, so this Slobodan Pavlovic, I repeat, is a member of the National Educational Council then, and you have not yet replaced him, elected director of the Business School in Belgrade in 2001, of course, by the decision of the then DOS. Here, until today, he is at the mercy of DOS and has also received 813.397 dinars as a member of the National Educational Council only for a year and a half from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The president of the SRS Anti-Corruption Council, Ivan Ninic, has been investigating all of this and all of this that I've met the public with, and that it is not arbitrary data, and that you do not suspect that we have come to comment on some of us unimportant Slobodan Pavlovic, but very important because of the policy that you are conducting, very important because of the regime's relationship with Serbian citizens, according to the funds that Serbian citizens put into the republican budget. There is a special story and a special topic should be what the moral qualities of Slobodan Pavlovic are and how someone so immoral can be a member of the National Educational Council. So Ivan Ninic filed a criminal complaint and a request for an investigation then to the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office against this gentleman. What happened? He was ordered to pay a cash amount of only 100,000 dinars for humanitarian purposes to the Belgrade City Health Secretariat, as it was obvious that he committed a criminal offence of abuse of the official position under Article 359(1). The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting that for this number of malversions and for the damage to the budget of the Republic of Serbia in this amount, nearly nine million dinars in total, when all of this is summed up, the first basic Public Prosecutor's Office, i.e. Deputy Public Prosecutor Branko Trifunovic, agreed to make a deal with Slobodan Pavlovic by paying only 100,000 dinars for this amount of stolen money. All this money, this almost nine million, had to make parents, what to the students, what to school, etc. to make up again through the school account directly from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Now, after such a disgrace and the public prosecutor's office, and the National Educational Council, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly's majority, in the words of the entire Tadic regime, this Mr. Slobodan Pavlovic is today the director of the Directorate at the Bookshop. Why Mr. Miloljub Albianic hired a man just like this, it is again a question of another topic, but it is important that this changed member of the National Educational Council monthly at the Educational Bureau receives 90.940 dinars. So, the shame to the shame and maybe you didn't know about this, maybe you weren't interested enough to find out, when you're looking to get rid of someone, then you should know what it's all about. Well, when someone resigns, you should ask him why he resigns. Did someone tell him - resign, and we'll hide all this crime and malfeasance and shame in the state, or he himself realized that he was better off withdrawing, and he obviously arranged with his party to make over 90,000 dinars in the Department of Books instead of the Educational National Council. Imagine what he was going to do as director at the Bookshop, I read 15 minutes ago or 10, when he was mixing with textbooks, by using individual printers, directly from the press, through school students, to make them buy just those textbooks. This is all the consequence of your poor, or catastrophic Law on the Foundations of the Educational and Educational System, where you allowed schools to make their own school programs, that schools can choose their own textbooks, so you have in the same place two schools that are fully diametrically learning and fully diametric programs, and then, if, because of the online circumstances, one student has to go to another school, when he comes to that class, a child has fallen from Mars, because in that school that came from a completely different program compared to that program that was in the school where he came from. All of these are and not only these reasons why the SRS cannot trust any proposal coming from the ruling majority, or from the representatives of the regime. So, of course, we can't trust any of the suggestions you've made today. In an explanation, i.e. a report by the Education Committee, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 May, you, among other things, say that the Education Committee, held on 24 March 2011, discussed the National Education Council candidate list and concluded that the lists were submitted by all authorised promoters other than the National Council of National Minorities. Then, at a session on 18 May, the Committee was informed that, in the meantime, at a coordination session, I guess, you do not know how to write, the national councils of national minorities, which took place on 12 April 2011, made a unanimous decision to propose two candidates for one member of the National Educational Council, and that is Professor Minerva Trajlović Kondan and Vera Novakovic. For Vera Novakovic, the bracket says the proposal of the National Council of the Slovak National Minority, and for Mrs Minervo Trajlović Kondan does not say from which national council was proposed. We can conclude from her biography, but I guess we should know, if that's a proposal for members of the National Minority Council, then we should know which national minorities are represented and who really are the promoters. The Committee then says that an emergency procedure was proposed so that the Council could fully exercise its functions by law, as the second half of the Council members had been elected previously expired on 23 May 2011. Of course, it is your responsibility why you do not already have a job and elected members of the Council to which the mandate expires on 23 May by 18 May this year. You yourself are responsible for bringing into such a situation and the educational national council and the National Assembly, which must, in turn, discuss the proposals of the ruling regime. It's basically bad and unacceptable. What you suggested in your Rules of Procedure, you suggested. According to the Rules of Procedure, someone can tell us that there are only two members of the Rules of Procedure who can be injured, others cannot be hurt, which means someone can beat someone in the middle of a session. Of course, Mrs Comic says she can't hurt the Rules of Procedure, but only the president, or the chairman, can. The question is, then, how can such a president or chairman make warnings to the MPs, if he claims that the MP cannot harm the Rules of Procedure? You know, this is also a crackdown, because there's a lot of hearing from the chairman's office, that someone who's only enrolled in law school gets baptized when he hears Mrs. Comic say -- that member of the Rules of Procedure can't get hurt. I guess any member of any act can get hurt. Anyone, from first to last, can get hurt. Mrs. Komic, I don't know what's funny to you, it's unfortunate that such an interpretation goes through in this House and that the ruling majority, or representatives of the regime, because 126 green buttons are able to swallow everything and work against themselves and against the profession. That's what I'm saying, first of all, for lawyers. When it comes to these two candidates, which are to be discussed today, we heard that it is Dr Minerva Trajlović Kondan and Vera Novakovic. Now we have a biography of both. You know, we in the SRS, in principle, don't define ourselves as your candidates, because you choose and you're responsible. If you think there's nothing you can be responsible for right now, we're telling you that the day will come when you'll be responsible for all the malfeasances you've done for these 11 years and that you keep working today and today. Mrs Minerva Trajlović Kondan is presented in six positions, and Mrs Vera Novakovic is presented in two sentences. Now, for the sake of the public, Mrs Minerva Trajlović Kondan was born in Vladimirovac in 1965, which is less important. He says, a working biography – 2008 was selected as a doctor for Romanian language and literature, the scientific field of Romanians, and in 1997 as an assistant, and in 1990 as an assistant intern for the Romanian language group and literature of the University of Belgrade Faculty of Philology. I don't know how this is a little bit the other way around – in 1997 he's an assistant, and in 1990 he's an assistant intern, that's all you can understand. This lady's teaching and scientific work – lectures at the primary, master and doctoral studies of the Romanian language group and the literature of the Faculty of Philology in Belgrade. She participates in the work of the examination committees at all levels of studies, in the work of the Romanian language test committee on the admission exam and in the Romanian language knowledge exam, is the co-ordinator of curricula reforms and the Romanian language programme in the Romanian language group and the literature of the Faculty of Philology in Belgrade. Now we ask you, is it a little too much? She can't stand a woman to do all this. Imagine how many functions, and now this? Are you aware of the importance of the role of the National Educational Council, which you have given to the National Educational Council by law? We're just worried if this woman, if you choose her, will be able to do this. You are still saying that she has some scientific work, deals with modern Romanian, contrasting analysis of Romanian and Serbian languages, styleistics, Romanian dialectology and pragmalingvists, is a member of the Association for Applied linguistics of Serbia and a member of the Romanian Language Society of Vojvodina. Here he is present at the session and the chairman of the Committee on International Relations. This is just a question, we have no doubt in advance, but on the Committee on International Relations there are quite a number of problems, not in the Committee's work, of course, but the problems that the citizens and representatives of Vlach provide us as a problem of attempting to Romanianise Vlach through the Romanian language, Romanianisation of Vlach in eastern Serbia. Does that have anything to do with this lady? We don't charge in advance, but only warn. By the way, let me remind you that it's interesting that none of you have ever said that, I assume you've all been in election campaigns, say, in Kladov. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of the congregation majority, that at a hotel in Kladovo, anyone who comes there can see and sees it there as one terrible attraction, in the middle of one hall there's a border stone? That is, say those who try to romunize the Vlahes, who have otherwise always protected Serbian national interests, in all wars were shoulder to shoulder with Serbs and now it is trying to politicise and abuse. So there is a borderstone in that hotel in the hall that someone imagined as a border between Serbia and Romania in the town of Kladovo. You should take care of a lot of things, dear colleagues, because you can see that, under your part of going to the EU, worse and worse things are happening to us. You're all trying to hide everything under the carpet, so God forbid you don't blame Phile or any other eight-year-old official from some of the EU countries. Take care, ladies and gentlemen, of the state of Serbia, make sure that this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and stop advocacy with all but this people, who of the congregation's majority, above all, and of the regimes, are, above all, expecting to provide him with a better life and secure borders of the Republic of Serbia. As for this other lady you wrote about very briefly, she was born in Vrdnik, she was a graduate professor of Serbian language and literature, she has 15 years of working experience in education, and since 2009, she has been a director of the library of the Serbian Bookshop in Irig. He is a permanent associate of the Ministry of Culture of Vojvodina in the organisation of the event "Milics in Marches" and the organizer of cultural programs of schools at the Vojvodina Assembly. He is a member of the Educational National Council of the Slovak National Minority and a member of the Education Committee. Do you think someone with a biography like this can respond to the very responsible task of a member of the National Educational Council? You, of course, already know who you're voting for, or maybe you don't know who you're voting for, but when Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic double-clicks on that bell, then that means she's voting for it. I'm sorry, three times. The whole public in Serbia already knows and laughs at it. Before the vote, consider both of these proposals. Think about why this Slobodan Pavlovic has not been replaced yet? Does he still have anything to do with the National Educational Council? Are these solutions you've got, which you're going to vote for, adequate? Can anyone with such biographies really do this very important job? Before this, it would have been better if you had put on the agenda to change the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, because you've demoted the education and education system so much, and you know it well, that students who finish eighth-year school sound and don't read, not everyone, of course, doesn't know the letter, they don't know the basic concepts, they don't know the basic things that they knew in some better times in grade three, and now they don't know students who finish eight years of school. Teachers, or teachers, are not allowed to bring down students, not to give negative grades, they have to take care of what the director says, and the director is directly appointed from the regime, they must not object to what comes from the Ministry, because he constantly threatens everyone over the head from time to time the Minister's notice - sometimes there are 5,000, and sometimes 10,000 extra teachers and teachers in the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, that's one of the reasons why you control teachers and teachers. But fortunately, there are still enough numbers to make sure that they get out of your program a little bit, especially when it comes to the history of Serbia, the Serbian people, when it comes to Serbian language, writers who are learning, etc. So there's a lot of problems in this area. The basics are bad law. Further is your irresponsible relationship to this most important problem. Because that's what we told you when it came to this law and the Law on Higher Education. What's been stolen in these 11 years, what's been destroyed by the economy, closed factories, etc., these are material assets that some responsible government will have, and we claim that would be the power of Serbian radicals, for a number of years to compensate. But this failure of generations, this is irreparable. You, through your laws, are actually doing the EU a favor. You want us to have seemingly educated people who graduate from high school, higher, high, master studies, etc., who have a level of knowledge such that every Stefan File can manipulate them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55713	National MP Aleksandar Jugovic has a word. He's not here. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55714	Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, how much time do we have? (President: You have 34 minutes. All right, thank you. I have to do this for the citizens who are monitoring this transmission to say, they haven't agreed on those election laws yet, and we're waiting for that smoke to appear on the chimney. Since they haven't agreed yet, this agenda item has been inserted to buy this time, while the coalition is agreeing which amendments will be accepted, which they don't. Of course, you can see how cooperative I am with power. (President: Please, will you stick to the agenda, the coalition has agreed to inform you. ) I stick to the agenda, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, you can see that I have caught the agenda. I'm sticking to the agenda. Furthermore, during this session, we had some kind of epics about the unbreakable relationship between citizens and the MP. Well, brothers of the cameramen, show what this connection is between the citizens watching the empty room, they are not their MPs. And they swear to change the law because of an unbreakable relationship. A lie to a lie. Let's start with this National Educational Council. We haven't had luck with that national educational council since Ljilja Colic, when she was the minister, when she more called for Christianity than Micunovic on Darwin, and died because of Darwin. We can't choose something that could be the backbone, let's say, of all our educational programs. There's a nice saying. It's said -- what the teacher did wrong, it's a greater shame than the colonel did in the war. There's no copy here, it's obviously an educational system error. Obviously an educational system error. You see, when the education system breaks down, then everyone gets a degree in one, neither guilty nor in debt becomes an intellectual. He's not guilty or obliged to become an intellectual and yet, by some faulty electoral system, he becomes a state official. Practice with those mirrors at home, next to the painting of Rambo and that Schwarzenegger, and that's how he prepares for the Assembly. Educational system error. If we're talking about this motion for a decision, then we need to consider both the formal and the material aspects. Formal, do the proposed candidates meet the conditions, did the proposal come from the authorised proposer, does the proposal not contain anything in itself that suggests that the law on the prohibition of discrimination has been violated? Did you listen yesterday, every fourth, every third, every second, less represented sex. Which one is it? No one knows what the less represented sex is. Where's the gay population? Why didn't you take care of them here? Do you remember that an activist of the gay population has become the vice president of one party? He forgot about his population as soon as he met his needs. Amazing things happen. So we have a proposal from an authorised promoter. They gave the initiative a place dear to mine. Proposed candidates. Of course, in 11 years we learned in this assembly that we have to take care of what we're saying and try to make sure that when we wave with our right hand, European standards come out, when we wave our left hand out the directive. We don't want to talk about names and last names, but we have to say, respected citizens, what can happen in the head of a man to accept being a candidate for a member of the Educational Council, in this situation where 11 years is ruled by hepatitis D. What is the motive for a man who accepts to be a member of something condemned to fail? They're still intellectuals, you've seen biographies, you've finished schools. So they're not the educational system's faults, like the one that's stuck around here all the time. Then the question is, what is this urge, motive, why did they accept to be? Why did they accept to be where there's nothing? What they want me to do is take part in the work of this educational advice, and he no longer does what he does. Then a man must think a little bit, and then he says: "Perhaps they are motivated in the same way as those in public agencies and public enterprises." A few days ago, I read what the fees were and what the salaries were, starting with JAT erwayz, Telecoma, which, until that time, was eighty-five public institutions. Then the agency of the Charter of Values, where that lady has 390 grand. According to the February 2009 data, not according to the 2011 data, the Educational Council's fee is not that big, but in times of economic crisis, everything that is relevant on the side is, it helps. Maybe that's some motive. I'm not shutting it down. Then a second, same formal reason to consider. If you know what the range of their participation in one of these tips is, or there is no possibility that they might be involved in something more significant, then what do we really choose? What defines us? What does the Enlightenment Committee define? They're defined only by a biography. They finished schools, intellectuals. And does society benefit from these intellectuals? Whether they can apply their skills in practice, because knowledge in school and in college has some purpose if applied in practice. If such knowledge acquired in high school cannot be applied in practice or misused, or misapplicated, what is the benefit of that intellectual? Not at all. Well, you've seen it yourself. In this room here, all the colleges have capitulated here, both technically and socially. Why? One hundred and twenty-six solves all diseases. He can take down his students there because some things they don't know, but if he corrects the student, so that righting the student said here, he was immediately killed by Damocle's sword with 8.5,000 fines. The question is, why do we need colleges after the National Assembly, what do we need schools, what do we need carpenters, what do we need builders, why do we need carpenters, why do we need electricians? We can do all of this by voting. You've got 126, you're an electronics engineer right now. What's a kid got to torture at school? He's supposed to go there, just so he knows how much he doesn't get the wire so he doesn't get electrocuted, and he's an engineer right now. So that could be a criterion. And then the question arises, dear MPs in this humble number, here I must commend Mrs Comic, she is always regular, unlike many others, she takes her function seriously, not only because of the punishment but because she is committed to the work of the MPs, then the question is, where is our responsibility? If we know all this, do we have the moral right to vote by justifying ourselves that we don't know? So when they corner us, then we say what you want, most of them decide. You know, when you say that most of them decide, Verko, that's what "two bad guys kill Milosha", that's right. Then we're surprised to find ourselves in a crossroad with a thousand paths and how we're headed back. And we're going round and round and round as a society, we can't face the truth, we can't make one step that would mean truth and justice. And it's not hard to be nice. Especially is it not difficult for those who are called on to be believers, to be Christians, to obey God’s commandments, etc. Some here behave like great Christians, but Roman Catholics. He goes to mass pay and he tells him you're forgiven. I ask the question, what is the guilt of the Justice Committee, what is the guilt of these people who accept this, who are agreeing to start with something that is known and what is our fault that we are even talking about this, because it turns out that the greatest merit is that these people have some education. And the fact that they have some education, it's a guarantee of everything they're expected to do in accordance with the law that they can do. And they can't do anything about it under the law. Absolutely nothing, and then we will also have in the future golden and light examples of collateral damage to the education system. Look, you have a system of values today, kids don't want to go to college anymore. Why? Because you have no respect for your profession, no respect for who's looking for you. Have you seen the machine engineers all go to the managers? They went to the media, did you see Gilas? What kind of machinery, give the media, buy all the seconds. And what's his diploma for? To call for a college degree. He could've finished the seminary, bought it for seconds, and you've all been advertised by the prisoners of his monopoly. You had Minister Sutanovac and he's some machine engineer, expelled from the service, got severance, a disaster for the service, but 126 chose him as defence minister. Where's your army now? I have nothing to be surprised at, the natural consequence of the wrong steps is our reality. Could these people change our reality, make some contribution to our reality in some period, in a year or two, in terms of education, education, change. Oh, I can't. Education is, from international standards, in the sole jurisdiction of the state. There's no international standard and there's no international standard for your Bologna you've talked about. It's a failure here, but not just here, but in many other places, but not to open that topic. No one's applying it anywhere. So it's all in our jurisdiction to adapt the entire education system to our needs. No, there's corn in Belgium, the Netherlands, how after the second year can continue studying, now tell someone else's cricket, then some international tests, so our kids are being tested, and now our kids are turning out to be unintelligent. So there's no international standard, what international standard? At the level of the Council of Europe for 25 years, books of history of Europe have been done, the founders of the Council of Europe cannot agree on what could as history enter the EU's heritage and never finish the book. They say we can't finish it, six generations of directors of that center have changed. Why? From country to country, every event of importance to Europe is especially colored in a way that corresponds to which country. Where the French and Germans can have a common view of their history when 70 percent of the situation was opposed to the sides. You know for yourself that Strazbur has changed for 30 years, and a little in Germany, and 30 years in France, and in Germany, and in France. And here we are saying, you know what, the Venice Commission, we have to pass the law, because you know what, Venice has a sewer problem, and that's the main criterion that we have here, this Venice Commission. Who are these people who agree to be on this paper part of a project that's doomed? Our MP Marko Milenkovic read to you a few days ago what he read to you, thanks to such advice, he entered the textbooks and what our children must learn, as if the textbook was written by Ivo Tomic, a witness of the Hague tribunal's expert. The Hague uses a book written by Desimir Tosic in 1956 in France for some historical aspects, i.e. the history of the Serbian people. He's neither historian nor mild in history. He wrote, Turkey made the Krajina north to guard against the Austrians. Ask our child who goes to the third grade of elementary school who made the military landscape and why he did it. Desimir Tosic wrote. (From the bench: fool.) He did, so what, and at night he came by helicopter to seize the mandates of the MPs. Who's to blame? Or another experience from The Hague. False data, lies. Source: a 1992 book by Vladimir Goati. A lie to a lie, perfectly proven. His observations, his false observations. He didn't mind, he was good for Milosevic, so he was good after and for this, and today he's good, he's good for everyone. Whenever they need it, they pull it out for the ear, fuck, come on, Professor, say something, fuck, come back, goodbye, we're waiting for the next chance. "Transparency, fuck, say, let's move on, who's funding you, shut up. No one can know who's funding Transparency. Then the question is, who do you choose people? Are these people aware of what they're expected to do, whether they're aware of what they're supposed to do? Then we'll say, fine, 126, respected procedure, don't God forbid you go to the Constitutional Court, when he gives you the story of Boss Nenadic, you can only imagine what would happen. You know what, I suggest these members of the Educational Council raise their voice. Why would the members of the Board of Governors of the NBS have a monthly fee of 150 thousand dinars, even these can. Why the head of the Educational Council could have a lower salary than the director of Belgrade's Airport. What's the one on the airport taking care of the plane and the passengers is going to get in nicely? Here everyone from birth to grave, the base is this advice, the programs of teaching, what children need to learn, what to be an integral part of their personality for all time, which would have a higher function and a higher salary than these people. But no, there's 20,000 or 30,000 a month of apanaze here, shut up, we push these programs, we change history, we change everything, it's important to wait for the signature, and the signature will come in October. All right, if it is not in October, as Zeljko Samardzic said, it will be in November, so if it is not in November, it will be in December, and as long as they say it is, it means a lie. Some people here accept lies, people live in lies, they're very nice when you lie to them, they just melt, and these grow popular. As a man loses his job, he immediately votes for Boris Tadic, he couldn't wait to lose his job. Five hundred thousand families have no dogs to bite them for, because they are in debt to banks, it is 500 thousand safe voters for Boris Tadic. And so nice, we from the SRS tell you a little bit, let's warn you what's gonna happen in a few months if you don't listen to us, you smile and say, you talk, nobody listens, there's the media, that's what we're going to turn again, Serbia is on a suicide path to the EU, people are looking forward to it, we're going to win again, and when we win, then we're going to say, so what we promised, 126 we have, we can do anything. And then within 126, like at this time, the tensions whose amendment will pass, how it will pass, to agree, not to agree, not to agree. But some will swallow a frog just to prove they're on their way to the EU. His neighbor's lack of bread, he doesn't care, it's important that we're on our way to the EU, and when we get there, never. Since I want to check on how the deal on voting is going, I'm interrupting this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55715	The word has an MP, Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55716	President-in-Office, fellow MPs, I would take advantage of the opportunity when it comes to the candidate for the National Educational Council that, as a former educator, I would present my thoughts, to present some of the problems that we must solve in education. Serbia is dying south of Belgrade, 1,200 settlements have been extinguished in the last 10 years. I believe there is an approximate number of schools, but I think it is a fundamental obligation in the state of all state resources that in every way possible the conditions of living in the country to keep young people alive, and above all I think about those who need education over. I will remind you that all modern European countries, and I will talk about one that was part of a large country where Serbia was also, take great care of the education system and believe that it is one of the ways that people can stay in undeveloped and uninhabited areas until yesterday, so one professor or teacher in Slovenia takes care of some degree of graduation, if his workplace is further away from Maribor, has an incomparably higher salary than his colleague who is in the city. I saw it well, felt it and shared it with my colleagues. The educator has been demoted in every way. We now have a situation that half a year of educators strike us, and half a year we're being striked by students, again because of the wrong policy that we inherited from previous times, regarding education and education at all. Earlier, the educator was recognized as both an educator and an intellectual, respected, and now, and we have seen it in a lot of cases, almost every day, he's a bag for beating up hanged students or a coin for helping out hanged parents. The system must be observed in one form, where we see that from the very beginning, when the child enters the first grade of elementary school, until the end of his education, there are great shortcomings. First of all, here I think, when I talk about high school, I was just talking about elementary and high school, that this number of private schools and people behind colleges is no guarantee that we're going to get personnel who will be able to manage their businesses properly and properly. I think the political resemblance and business ties are about to determine those people who are finishing colleges without any knowledge, and I am responsiblely saying, in private colleges, that they are taking over very important functions in the state, and that this is how the entire system collapses, the whole state collapses. That's why I think high school may be in the worst system, because students don't go to colleges to get some knowledge, but more for reasons to bring money to those privates who hold those private colleges. Rich parents probably buy various degrees for their children, and then represent their children as intellectuals and provide them with a job. I've had a chance to meet former football players who are bank managers. In all of this, we need to make it clear that we want to change our policy towards education, that we want to introduce some new rules, where those people in those environments where schools and schools are located will be responsible for the good they possess. So we can start with the draft law on public property, where in the bill the school facility is in the administration or using the Republic Property Directorate, which I think is disastrous because so far we have thousands of demands in the Republic Property Directorate, and we don't have any answers for any school, not one subject that has asked for certain answers. I think the municipalities have to manage their schools, if they're already providing funds for these schools to function in the best possible way. Again, we return to the condition of all conditions, which is the decentralisation of the government in Serbia, where citizens from the municipalities would directly exercise control from their environments, and when it comes to education and when it comes to spending funds, their funds that they have earned, which they themselves contributed to making the budget of the municipality bigger. I could talk about school problems as a former educator for hours, but I think it would be enough at least some of what I said to achieve a positive shift and to show everyone that we want to think about perhaps the most important branch of the state system.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55717	Since there are no more MPs on the list, I give my word to MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, the LDP parliamentary group's authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55718	Dear Madam President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, before I begin to analyse the very scale of this point and this material that we received before this session, I would like to refer to the presentation of a respected fellow Yugoslav. I will ask myself and the rest of the question – when a member of the ruling coalition criticises the government like this, what remains of the opposition to us? We have before us a list of candidates for members of the National Council and that's the topic of this agenda point. Let us understand that these may not be party quotas, that is, to deceive ourselves that the proposed candidates are not from adequate party quotas, to quote another Tito – that the children are our greatest wealth, and the other Stalin – that the staff really solve everything, declare what we are proposed and spontaneously diverge. It's usually the tip of the iceberg of this very painful topic, which seems to be affecting the entire ruling coalition and for which the solution is seen by the problems being pushed under the carpet. I'd like to look back at the personnel first. About the proposed candidates, we can have some kind of play from their biography that was given. The biography is fine, possibly a question can be asked for candidate Vera Novakovic - is it enough for MPs to serve a biography consisting of only three sentences and is it responsible for MPs who need to decide something? Now I will return to the metric, or something called the National Council's report on previous work. The introduction says -- the basic mission of the National Educational Council of the Republic of Serbia is to contribute, in accordance with its legal competences, to the development of the promotion of pedagogical, primary, secondary, general and artistic education and education in Serbia. There's now an analysis. Let's see what was given in that analysis. The subtitle is - high rates of depletion and inequality of the system in the education and education system. It says – about 47% of children aged four to school leaving include preschool education and education, while the percentage in the EU is at least 80%. The child coverage of the preschool prep programme is about 88%. But what's behind that number? The smallest coverage in eastern Serbia is 50% and the largest in Vojvodina is 96.4%. Child coverage with primary education is about 98%. This also concerns those topics that I will later touch, which concerns major problems beyond education, which are asylum seekers, false asylum seekers and all that follows the problem. To go back to the exact data, of the total number recorded around 7.4% are children of Roma nationality. The percentage of children of Roma nationality enrolled in the first grade increased compared to the last school year by only about 10%. Central education covers about 83% of students in Serbia. Serbia is one of the few countries in Europe where secondary education is optional. The share of young people who leave education, education and training prematurely, i.e. young people aged 18 to 24, about 30% in Serbia. All of these data indicate that at all levels, the smallest coverage and the greatest giving up on the education of children from socially sensitive groups is. The lack of education of the poor categories of society generates new poverty. It is therefore necessary to plan and action plans to develop measures which will particularly support the education of these categories of children, etc. Under the heading – ineffectiveness of the education system and incompetence of the workforce, the EU methodology says, estimated expenditure on education in Serbia in 2008 is around 5.4% of GDP, which is close to the EU-level score of 5.3% and the other data has not been obtained. One affirmative data was provided, but the nature of this affirmative data was not explained. Why don't we have the rest of the data? Well, because statistics are such a science that the rest of the data would explain that this data that we have here is actually not real data. The question can be asked, after all this information has been released, does it even make sense to criticise the government, which should carry out the mentioned measures, and the National Educational Council, when they themselves gave this criticism? I'm going to add some more drastic examples, which nobody in this country seems to care about, except honorary examples from the congregation opposition. Question for the government, I'll look back on Sandzak territory. The fact is that there are not enough elementary schools there. In Novi Pazar, children go on three shifts due to school overcrowding and the third shift returns about ten o'clock from school. We have an example of building schools in neighbouring countries, and we are not thinking about the problem of our country, our citizens and our children. Or, an example from the Shop; when I was as a folk MP and LDP vice president touring southern Serbia, I spoke to citizens at the Shop, and a normal question: what is the life of young people here and where do young people come out here? The answer was, "There are no young people here." Ražnja, a colleague of Bulgarians, spoke about it yesterday. There is no secondary school, although the citizens' initiative is unsuccessfully sent to the government, where it insists it is the only way for young people to stay in the municipality of Razanj. There was a review of the termination of the White Palanca High School. Let me remind you, this high school is over 70 years old. What has the government done to keep this problem from being re-established to the Ministry of Education? Meroshina municipality also doesn't have a high school. The question arises: when did the Educational Council sit down to meet with employers' representatives and make any kind of strategy and any shift in solving these problems? The question is, what's our school class like? The data that 240 thousand children must take private lessons; well, what if teaching in schools is necessary to take private lessons so that the curriculum and the program, which asks God when it is aligned with modern needs, can be mastered? I have similar problems. My older son is a high school kid, my younger son goes to elementary school, and kids take private classes. I can't help them mastering matter, and apparently what they hear in school classes isn't enough. It's just the tip of the iceberg, because the question raises the question of the status of educators, their motivation, their social standing. The question is: how can we expect educators to be the bearers of something that is most important in our country, if they are not motivated enough and if they are made of social cases? Our children spend more time with their teachers and teachers than with us in the house. To that question, we either get unfavourable answers or we get no answers at all. Then questions and stories come to the very top and university education. Let's see what the situation is. I think I'm quite competent to talk about it because I'm a university professor myself. I'm going to look back at Sandzak again and ask some questions that are, again, the tip of the iceberg of all the problems that plague our education. Sandzak is the youngest region in Europe, but with a huge unemployment rate of over 50%, and also with a very low percentage of higher education. No one thought about it at the time of Milosevic's regime. It's logical, the regime was like that, so they didn't even think about it. The government of Zoran Djindjic tried and made a solid move to resolve the issue. The International University of Novi Pazar, which is not only a new market, was formed to remind the university also has a department in Nis, Pancheva and Subotica. Then came the government of Vojislava Kostunica, who didn't like the university at all, so they built a state university. Otherwise, it is one university that bears the name - state, as if the state, or government of Vojislav Kostunica at the time wanted to highlight that attribute of the university. For the man who will lead the university, they are putting someone who led the University of Pristina and who has not quite been celebrated in solving the Albanian education issue and in solving many other issues that have led to such a situation in Kosovo and all of these problems that we now have. And now, instead of being something that will be complemented by the International University of Novi Pazar, it has created a competitive house, which is favored by many things, and the International University has not received accreditation. One paradox: In 2009, the conditions still needed by the International University to meet the accreditation, only a year after that, these requirements, or the proposed measures, arrived in Novi Pazar. People have been given a 15-day deadline to carry out those measurements. The question is, what happened to the document traveling from Belgrade to Novi Pazar for a year? Of course, the University of New Market is just one part of this very painful story for our society. What about the other universities? What about teaching at other universities whose founder is state? What about the issue of Shanghai criteria and the fact that Belgrade University does not have among the 500 leading universities in Serbia? Who tried to answer those questions? Belgrade University Rector said he did not like the criteria. If the criteria for how many universities there are Nobel Prized Teachers, how many awarded teachers, what quality of study is there, if that criterion is not good, I don't know by what criteria should the quality of a university be established? Not to mention, the Bologna system is impossible to implement with the lack of teachers. In the first year of Nis, I have 700 students, I teach one class together with my colleague, one class I teach alone. How does the state imagine that I should commit myself to all my students in an adequate way? My colleague, who teaches Roman law at a convention right in Bologna, asked how the Roman Law class is going on there, and they said they had 100 students in the first year, and they had seven teachers who teach Roman law. My colleague then said, "I've got 700 students, I'm alone." They didn't understand it was the number 700, they thought it was the number 70. And then they wondered how a teacher could handle 70 students on his own. I wonder if they understood the right number – one teacher at 700 students, what question would they ask? Finally, I would return to this document called – a report by the National Council, which says in the final notes to be implemented. It says, firstly, to step up the work to develop a strategy for education and education in the Republic of Serbia. What have the ruling structures been up to now? Did anyone do that? Or are we going to put the education strategy back into some distant future and some other people who will exercise power in Serbia? They further say – to reach agreement on the division of the competences of relevant institutions regarding the collection and analysis of key indicators, etc. We were just in time to remember when to do the job. How to carry out all the tasks ahead of the Serbian society and the fact that education is a fundamental segment of the prosperity of this society, when the National Educational Council asks us how to solve fundamental problems and only now gives some guidance for some distant future. I don't have an answer to that question. I'd like someone from the government to give me that answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55719	Mr. Zoran Shami has a word. Here you go. I'm sorry, first of all, Ambassador Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55720	I heard here that there was a need to abolish the state university in Belgrade, Nis, New Pazar, New Sad, and I just couldn't believe that kids in New Market were supposed to pay for private universities. In Belgrade, we have several universities of private, we have in Nis, we have in Novi Sad, but I don't know who the state University of Novi Pazar bothers, that children in Novi Pazar are learning from school programmes like in Novi Sad, Belgrade, in other parts of Serbia. So it's not a problem at all. Anyone who gets paid somewhere, it's normal to protect the interests of an institution where they get paid and it's a legitimate thing. But to demand that the held University of Novi Pazar be abolished, it is also required to abolish the state university in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and wherever the state is financed by the state university. No, no, that's what he meant, and he didn't say.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55721	Of course there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. What someone thinks, simple mind-reading is a special phenomenon and we don't want to talk about it. National MP Zoran Shami, representative of the DSS parliamentary group Vojislav Kostunica. Okay, you're right. You want a replica? Dr Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55722	What my colleague Omeragic said was as an objection to my exposure and as some kind of replica, but I didn't understand it. Of course, I'm going to ask a question that all of my colleagues sitting around me, or their findings -- you didn't say that at all. Of course I didn't say that. It would be crazy to cut out universities, especially when we don't have enough. I don't understand where my colleague Omeragic came up with the idea that I'm going to find out that he wasn't in the Omeragic room while I was talking, he's even thinking about someone else's memory of something like that. On the environmental note that I didn't say that, my colleague Omeragic says yes, but he meant it. I'd like to be explained how my colleague Omeragic knows what I was thinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55723	It's a difficult phenomenon and it's hard to explain. No, you have no right to a replica. MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55724	I'll mention Mr. Rangelovic at the beginning. I fully understand everything he's been saying, and it only strengthens my appeal to this assembly to put on the agenda as soon as possible, a report by the National Educational Council, which we are normally required, and then it will be an opportunity to address at all the institutions that care about our education. In time, however, one of my friends, commenting on a folk singer, said the way we French are, so is Edith Pjaf. These are just my thoughts that we must certainly pay attention to the reports of both national educational councils, including some of their very important commissions. I answered on behalf of the DSS at this point because it is about selecting a number of members of the National Educational Council. In that previous proposal, this subsequent, simply authorised proposer did not send it in time. As you know, the Education Committee is in this business designed as a sort of mailbox where the proposals of authorised proposings arrive, we should probably just check that the basic legal conditions for candidates are met, and in their assessment, the evaluation and everything else we don't enter. It happened similarly with some other committees. At this session, we had the election of some others on the agenda for which the other committees of this assembly were responsible and they are, unfortunately, also a sort of mailbox. What I stood for and what the DSS stands for, and I suppose every reasonable advocates, is that when it comes to institutions that have absolutely nothing to do with politics, it's about selecting qualified people from a particular area, whether they're respected teachers, artists or whatever, it's something that must certainly seem independent of their political commitment and independent of the political decisions of the ruling majority. I have advocated my time on the Committee, and today, I think that this is the right solution, that the committees of this assembly must be responsible for the relevant area and engage actively and say some of their opinions on the proposed candidates. This here, of course, so far and in practice so far, is not the case. Another thing about national educational councils and their commissions, I will mention one very important one, it is the College Accreditation Commission, in law we have very precisely defined that certain tasks related to these important institutions are carried out by this assembly, i.e. the institution's choice, and it also sets out their salary, and that the Serbian government is obliged to provide essential conditions for their functioning. On the last educational committee, we have concluded that, on the one hand, members of the National Educational Council and the Commission have not received any salary for a period of six months because this assembly, or its committee, in this case has not made a fundamental decision on this. I am taking the opportunity to ask the Administrative Committee of our congregation to declare that at the next session of the Assembly, an adequate decision could be made. Secondly, we have also found that the government has done nothing to adopt the necessary sublegal acts that would provide not large funds, minimum resources for the normal functioning of these institutions. In fact, the real state of affairs is that these institutions have no means at all, let's say if someone is to travel to Kragujevac from Belgrade to finish some work for the institution or to participate in a domestic or international meeting dealing with issues in the area, etc. So, although funds have been provided in the budget, there is simply no mechanism to make it appear so. As the Education Committee, we have warned and asked the government to pass such a sublaw. To sum up - I think it certainly needs to ensure the conditions that these very important institutions can normally work, all the conditions, so what is in the House's domain and what is in the government's domain. I am surprised by the ruling majority that they assume exclusive responsibility and apparently some inter-party settlements that will be a member of which institutions, but that the committees in which you will, however, admit, are sitting people who are engaged or are familiar with a particular area, that is the case with the Education Committee, I am convinced that this is the case with the Committee on Culture and other our committees, that an active role of these committees and that they say – yes, it seems to us that some Pera is a better candidate than some Žika, because it is more famous, has some results in her work so far in this area, etc. Instead, we have reduced the whole thing to the fact that the ruling majority here is going to vote what they want to vote, and it doesn't matter what they vote for, and then we wonder what these institutions do the way they do and what Mr. Rangelovic said they don't do until the end of what they should do. Personally, I think that the area of education is something that is completely immune to the political differences that no doubt exist among the parties, which is normal. I think that a good function of education, like other areas, for example science, culture, etc., is something we're all interested in, by the logic of things, because these are things of great national interest. On this occasion, I would also ask the President of the Assembly to put on the first next session the reports of the National Educational Councils and their important committees, on the one hand, which will be an opportunity to discuss the situation globally in these areas, and on the other hand to change the practice where the Assembly committees are just a mailbox in which authorised proposings send their proposals, and we just type and deliver it to the Assembly. If we're gonna do this, then he doesn't even have to go to the board of directors, they can do it themselves. That's it. As far as the proceedings are concerned, there's nothing controversial about it, and I don't think it deserves any special discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55725	The chairmans of the boards of directors received my notice and reminders, and I sincerely hope that the reports will be discussed on the committees in charge, so that we can have our participation in the plenary session. (Zoran Shami: We discussed this report on the Committee on Education. Yes, but other committees should do the same. Mr. Bajram Omeragic is advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55726	I just wanted to make a brief observation. A bid to equalize state and private universities has my support. Bad people understood that we do not have a positive attitude towards the state university in Novi Pazar. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-25-0.u55727	Okay. Since no one's answering their words again, I'm asking one more time if anyone who hasn't used the right of Article 96. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the search on the list of candidates for a member of the National Educational Council. After a search, the National Assembly will decide on a list of candidates for a member of the National Educational Council in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 25 May 2011, starting at 12.30pm, as the Day of Vote on all agenda points of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I ask the MPs to be here at 12:30, so we can make a statement on all points of the agenda. Thank you. [[After break – 12.40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Economic Society since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on companies, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, there are 126. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, one for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the 8th amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted the 10th amendment together. The government has accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 122 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 118 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. The amendment was adopted during the review of the draft law in particular by the proposing representative. Of the 128 MPs, 104 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the Government. Of the 128 MPs, 116 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. Of the 128 MPs, 12 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 13th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted the 14th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 14th Amendment was submitted by Siniša Stamenkovic. Of 128 MPs, 8 for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 16th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the title above article 18 and article 18 of the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, six are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the 21st Amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 24th Amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinović. Of 128 MPs, one for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted to the 24th amendment. During the examination of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, with a correction. Of the 128 MPs, 121 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 25th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 31st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 33rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 34th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 35th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the 46th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 122 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 47th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the 48th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 48th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 51st Amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 56th amendment was submitted by MP Suzanne Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 117 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted to the 56th amendment. During the review of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, with a correction. Of the 128 MPs, 108 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 57th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted together to the 57th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 59th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 113 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted together to the 61st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 98 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 108 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 63rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 63rd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 64th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 65th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 66th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 67th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 74th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 75th Amendment was filed by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 75th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 76th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 120 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 85th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 6 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted the amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 89 of the amendment, with correction, the MPs Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted. During the review of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, with a correction. Of the 128 MPs, 102 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. An MP named Milorad Buha submitted to the 89th Amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 106 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted together to the 91st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 105 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 91st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 94. Of the 128 MPs, the amendment voted 6. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted the amendment to Article 96. Of the 128 MPs, five voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic together submitted the 100th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 117 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 102 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 119th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted the amendment to Article 121. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted the amendment to Article 122. During the review of the draft law in particular, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 102 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 122 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 123. Of the 128 MPs, three voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 124, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic together submitted the 124th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 131st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 134th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 105 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 137th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 106 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 137th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 108 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. To the title above the article. Article 144 The 144th Amendment was submitted by the Government. Of the 128 MPs, 109 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 145th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 116 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group tabled an amendment proposing that after an article. 145. adds a new Art 145a. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted the amendment together. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 104 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted the 167th amendment together. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papug and Radovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, four voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 173rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted the 177th amendment together. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic together submitted the title above Articles 195 and 195 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 196th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, the amendment voted 7. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted the 204th amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, the amendment voted 6. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 241 of the amendment, MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic submitted together. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 246 by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 121 voted for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic together submitted the 247th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 247 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendments to the government to vote. Of the 128 MPs, 118 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 251st amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 110 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 254th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 107 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 272th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 275th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 110 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the amendment. On Article 299, the amendment was submitted by MP Suzanne Grubjesic. The government has accepted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 110 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 311th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 107 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 322nd amendment was submitted by MP Suzana Grubjesic. The government has accepted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 113 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to Article 331 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 334th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted this amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 112 voted for the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 335th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. During the examination of the proposal in particular, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 114 voted in favour of the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 360th Amendment was submitted by the Government. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 115 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic to the title above Article 393 and Article 393. Of the 128 MPs, the amendment voted 8. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 451st amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 105 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 452 by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 105 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 456th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 474th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 117 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Member of the 475th amendment was submitted by MP Suzanne Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 109 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Member of the 476th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 108 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The government submitted to Article 497 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 113 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The government has submitted to Article 498 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Of the 128 MPs, 107 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The title above Articles 515 and 515 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 515th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The government has submitted to Article 515 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 117 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 516th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic to the title above the 516th and the 516th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 517 and Article 517 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic submitted to the title above the 517th and 517th respectively. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 518th and 518th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 518th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 519 and 519 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 520th and 520th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 520th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 521 and Article 521 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 522nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The government has submitted to Article 522 of the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 112 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. On Article 522 of the amendment, MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic submitted together with a correction, during a search of the bill in particular, the proposing representative accepted the amendment with the correction. Of the 128 MPs, 88 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 523rd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 546th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 573rd Amendment was submitted by the Government. Of the 128 MPs, 105 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 577th amendment was submitted by Lydia Dimitrijevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 106 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 581st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 581 of the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted the amendment to Article 582. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 582 of the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 582nd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 583rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 583rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 583rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 584th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 584th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 585th amendment was submitted by MP Suzanne Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 109 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 585th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 588th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 588th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 589th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 590th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 591th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 592th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 596th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Susana Grubjesic submitted to the 600th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 112 for. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to the vote the proposal for a law on companies, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a proposal for a law on companies. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE CONTRACTION OF THE FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURE OF THE PUBLICATIONS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. The vote was 128, out of 128 MPs, so I understand that we voted on the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 106 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 6th Amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 7 and Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 101 for. The amendment has been accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 8th Amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 12th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, table for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 16th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 18th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the contractual financial restructuring of companies, in general. Of 128 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft law on the contractual financial restructuring of companies. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the User of Financial Services Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in principle. Of 128 MPs, 120 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments to the MPs: Donke Banović, Milice Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic per article. 14 and 39; groups of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group to Article 17; Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic, respectively. 17. and 22; Milice Vojić Marković on Article 17; Nenada Chanka, Bojana Kostreša, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic on Article 31, as well as Miroslav Markic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djerić on Article 40, Government on Article 40. 12, 21, 38, 40 and 51, and the National Bank of Serbia in Article 36th and 50th. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Gordana Pop Lazic submitted the title above Article 5 of the amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 5th amendment together. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 7th amendment together. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted the 10th amendment together. Proposer representative Dr. Dejan Šoštic, governor of the NBS, accepted this amendment during a search in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 95 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 10th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 10th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Proposer representative Dr Dejan Šoštic, governor of the NBS, accepted this amendment during a search in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 105 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 12th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The title above Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The title above Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by Milan Dimitrijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The title above article 18 was submitted by Dejan Mirovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 18th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted the amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 19. Proposer representative Dr Dejan Šoštic, governor of the NBS, accepted this amendment during a search in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 107 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance tabled an amendment to Article 21. Proposer representative Dr Dejan Šoštic, governor of the NBS, accepted this amendment during a search in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 105 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 21st amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Proposer representative Dr. Dejan Šoštic, governor of the NBS, accepted this amendment during a search in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 100 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 23. Proposer representative Dr. Dejan Šoštic, governor of the NBS, accepted this amendment during a search in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 104 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Proposer representative Dr. Dejan Šoštic, governor of the NBS, accepted this amendment during a search in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 100 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. National MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the title above Articles 30th and 30th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted the 31st amendment. Proposer representative Dr. Dejan Šoštic, governor of the NBS, accepted this amendment during a search in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 104 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 32nd amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Proposer representative Dr. Dejan Šoštic, governor of the NBS, accepted this amendment during a search in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 103 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 34. Proposer representative Dr. Dejan Šoštic, governor of the NBS, accepted this amendment during a search in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 104 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Both MPs Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the title above Articles 35 and 35 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 36th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the amendment to Article 37. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 38th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, five voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the 38th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted to the amendment 42nd. Proposer representative Dr Dejan Soskic, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, accepted this amendment during a search in particular. Of the 128 MPs, 95 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 45th Amendment was filed by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 45th amendment. Of 128 MPs, three for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Proposer representative Dr Dejan Soskic, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, accepted this amendment during a search in particular. Of 128 MPs, 101 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milica Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 45th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The government has submitted to the 50th Amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 50th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 50. Of 128 MPs, 107 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the 51st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 51st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 54. Proposer representative Dr Dejan Soskic, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, accepted this amendment during a search in particular. Of 127 MPs, 112 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 54th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 55th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, in general. Of 127 MPs, 120 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the protection of users of financial services. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Objects of Precious Metals Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 116 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: together with Miroslav Markic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic to members 3, 9, 10, 18, 26 and 39, Goran Mihajlovic to members 6 and 28, Srboljub Živanovic to member 12, Dejan Mirovic to member 19 and Momči Duvnjak to Article 36. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The third amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of 127 MPs, four for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted the 5th amendment together. Of 127 MPs, three for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 8th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 9th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 19th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted the amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 25th amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 26th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 27th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 28th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 30th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, five voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 39th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the bill on the control of objects of precious metals, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 114 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the control of objects of precious metals. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Selection of People's MEPs Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 121 MPs voted in principle for the bill. I find that we have accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I would like to remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of the MPs of Vlatko Ratkovic to the article. 14th and 15th, Branko Ruzic on Article 15, with correction. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the 8th Amendment, with the correction, the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Olena Papug together submitted. Of the 128 MPs, 124 voted in favour. Congratulations, the amendment has been accepted. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Of 128 MPs, seven for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which was added after Article 9, by new members of 9a and 9b, was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which added new members of 9a and 9b together, was submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Dejan Pisarevic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Of 128 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Bajram Šehovic. Of 128 MPs, four for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 13th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Of 128 MPs, 116 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Dejan Pisarevic. Of 128 MPs, one for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, in general. Of 128 MPs, 119 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments. We move on to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to THE DUVAN LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending the tobacco law in principle. Of the 128 MPs, 116 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the draft law amending the tobacco law in general. Of the 128 MPs, 121 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the tobacco law. We move to a vote on proposals for a law on the validation of international agreements. Dear fellow Members, all votes from now on can be made or voted if we vote with 126 votes at least. Where there are more candidates, we can only vote for one, so please concentrate. As we now move to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts or the agreement of points 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, by the majority of votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. We are moving to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on the Predication I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Area, in general. Of 128 MPs, 128 for. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has passed the bill. We are moving to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF A CONTRACTING A CONTRACTION BETWEEN THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE INDONES ON THE avoidance OF TWO DETECTIONS IN CONCERNING THE INVESTIGATION I am placing on the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, in general. Of 128 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Accords between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on the UK visa for holders of diplomatic and official passports I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – I would like to put to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Japan on visa waiver, in general. Of the 128 MPs, 126 is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Governor since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 of Article 105 of Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly selects the members of the Board of Governors of the NBS for the majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on a motion for a decision on the election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. Of 128 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all the MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – the summary list of candidates for the election of members of the National Council for Culture After the National Assembly has conducted a search, and before we move on to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides by majority of the votes of all national affairs on the selection of members of the National Council for Culture. I also remind you that, in accordance with Article 16. The Culture Act, each of the seven authorised applicants, proposed a number or a maximum of twice the number of candidates selected from the order of each of the proposings. We're moving on to a decision. The candidates proposed by the government, I remind you, are candidates proposed by the government: Goran Paskaljević, Isidora Žebeljan, Mileta Salesovic, Miroslav Mogorovic. The National Assembly should elect members of the National Council for Culture. I am voting on the proposal to elect Goran Paskaljević as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of the 128 MPs, 128 MPs voted in favour. I find the National Assembly unanimously elected a member of the National Council for Culture Goran Paskaljevic. I am putting the motion to elect Isidor Žebeljan as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of the 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for the National Council for Culture has chosen Isidor Žebeljan. I am voting on a proposal to elect Mileta Svetovic as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the National Council for Culture has chosen Mileta Svetovic. I am voting on the proposal to elect Miroslav Mogorovic as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the National Council for Culture has chosen Miroslav Mogorovic. We move on to candidates who have proposed cultural institutions whose founder is the Republic, the Autonomous province and the local self-government unit. I remind you that the candidates proposed by this proposal: Vesna Injac Malbaša, Milica Todorovic, Dusan Kovacevic and Marina Neskovic. I would like to note that four candidates have been proposed, and four candidates, or members of the National Council for Culture, are elected from the agenda of this proposal. I am putting the motion to elect Vesna Injac Malbaš as a member of the National Council. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for the National Council for Culture has chosen Vesna Injac Malbaš. I am voting on a proposal to elect Milica Todorovic as a member of the National Council. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the National Council for Culture has chosen Milica Todorovic. I am putting the motion to elect Dusan Kovacevic as a member of the National Council. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the National Council for Culture has chosen Dusan Kovacevic. I am putting the motion to elect Marina Neskovic as a member of the National Council. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for the National Council for Culture has chosen Marina Neskovic. We move on to candidates who have proposed representative associations, taking into account the representation of all professional profiles, which means that from each professional profile, of the two proposed candidates should be selected one at a time. Candidates from the field of literary creation and translation are Duško Paunković and Adam Puslojic. I am voting on the proposal to elect Dusko Paunkovic as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for the National Council for Culture has chosen Duško Paunkovic. There's no point in pleading then, but we have to. I am voting on the proposal to elect Adam Puslojic as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not chosen as a member of the National Council for Culture of Adam Puslojic. We move on to candidates from the field of art, applied art and photography. The candidates are Velizar Krstic and Aleksandar Denic. I am voting on the proposal to elect Velizar Krstic as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not chosen as a member of the National Council for Culture of Velizar Krstic. I am putting the motion to elect Aleksandar Denic as a member of the National Cultural Council. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the National Council for Culture has chosen Alexander Denić. The candidates from the field of music creation are Ivana Stefanovic and Smiljka Isakovic. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ivana Stefanovic as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of the 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the National Council for Culture has chosen Ivana Stefanovic. I am voting on the proposal to elect Smiljka Isakovic as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not chosen as a member of the National Council for Culture Smiljka Isakovic. We move on to candidates from the field of drama and cinematography - Ljiljana Đurić and Zarka Dragojevic. I put the motion to vote for a member of the National Council for Culture to be elected Ljiljana Đuric. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find the candidate has not been elected. I am voting on the proposal to elect Zarko Dragojevic as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of the 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for the National Council for Culture has chosen Zarko Dragojevic. We move on to the candidates proposed by the rest of the non-representative associations in culture. I remind you that the candidates who propose this proposal – Slobodan Vujović and Ivan Ilic. I am voting on the proposal to choose Slobodan Vujovic as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of the 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the National Council for Culture has chosen Slobodan Vujovic. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ivan Ilic as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find the candidate has not been elected. The candidates proposed by the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts are Dusan Otasevic and Miro Vuksanovic. The proposal was proposed by two candidates, and two members of the National Council of the Order are elected. I am voting on the proposal to elect academicist Dusan Otaševic as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for a National Council for Culture has been elected by academicist Dusan Otasevic. I am voting on the proposal to elect academicist Dusan Otaševic as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for a National Council for Culture has been elected by academicist Dusan Otasevic. I am voting on the proposal to elect a correspondent member of SANU Miro Vuksanovic as a member of the National Council for Culture. I'd like to ask you to finish the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly for a National Council for Culture has chosen a correspondent member of SANU Mir Vuksanovic. The candidates proposed by the Council of the University of Art. I remind you that the candidates proposed by this proposal: Egon Savin and Gordana Komad Arsenijević. The promoter has proposed two candidates and two candidates are elected. I am voting on a proposal to elect Egon Savin as a member of the National Cultural Council. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the National Council for Culture has chosen Egon Savin. I am voting on the proposal to elect Gordana Komad Arsenijević as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of the 128 MPs, 128 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for the National Council for Culture has chosen Gordana Komad Arsenijević. Candidates proposed by national councils of national minorities. I remind you that the candidates proposed by this proposal are Karol Vicek, Muhedin Fijuljanin and Dr Nikola Shuica. The promoter has proposed three candidates, and two are selected. I am voting on the proposal to choose Karol Vicek as a member of the National Cultural Council. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for the National Council for Culture has chosen Karol Vicek. I am putting the motion to elect Muhedin Fijuljanin as a member of the National Council for Culture. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly for the National Council for Culture has chosen Muhedin Fijuljanin. I'm putting on a motion to choose Dr. Nicole Shuic as a member of the National Cultural Council. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The candidate did not receive the required number of votes. Since we have completed this vote on all candidates for members of the National Council for Culture, allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the election and wish them a lot of success in their work. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – the summary list of candidates for members of the National Educational Council, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 105(2), paragraph 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I remind you, according to Article 13(6). The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, each list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Education Council, contains more candidates than the number of members elected, so that each MP votes for as many candidates as the members of the Council are elected from the order of each prescribed structure. We're moving on to a decision. We approach the vote on candidates for the selection of two members of the Council from the academics – regular university professors over a six-year period at the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts proposal. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Ljubomir Maksimović, Prof. Dr. Dragoslav Marinković and Prof. Dr. Milan Damnjanović. As of the three proposed candidates are selected two, I note that each MP can only vote for two candidates, with candidates who receive most of the votes of all MPs elected as members of the Council. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Ljubomir Maksimovic as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Dragoslav Marinkovic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Milan Damnjanovic as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Professor Dr Ljubomir Maksimović and Prof. Dr. Milan Damnjanović as members of the Council from the academics – the regular professors of the university. We move to a vote on candidates for the election of a member of the University of Belgrade's Council for a period of six years, on a proposal from the University of Belgrade. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Ljiljana Bajić and Prof. Dr. Ljiljana Marković. Since one of the two proposed candidates is elected, a candidate has been elected as a member of the Council who receives most of the votes of all MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Ljiljana Bajic as a member of the Council. Since 127, 126 MPs have voted for Professor Bajic. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Ljiljana Markovic as a member of the Council. We'll have to repeat the vote for Professor Ljiljana Markovic. I note that those who voted for Prof. Dr. Ljiljana Bajic cannot also plead for Prof. Dr. Ljiljana Markovic. We repeat the vote. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Ljiljana Markovic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Professor Dr Ljiljana Bajic from the number of votes received as a member of the Council from the Belgrade University teachers. We move to a vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council from the New Sad University teacher to a six-year period, on a proposal from the University of Novi Sad. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Zorana Lužanin, Prof. Dr. Ljiljana Subotić, Prof. Dr. Rade Doroslovski. Since one of the three proposed candidates is elected, I note that the candidate can be elected if he gets most of the votes of all the MPs. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Zoran Lužanin as a member of the Council. I'm sorry, it's Zorana Lujanin. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted for Professor Zoran Lužanin. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Ljiljana Subotic as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, the candidate has not received a single vote. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Rade Doroslovsky as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, the candidate has not received a single vote. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received as a member of the Council, has chosen Professor Zoran Lužanin as a teacher of the University of Novi Sad. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the University of Pristina Council for a period of six years, on a proposal from the University of Pristina. The candidates for selecting a member of the University of Pristina Council are Prof. Dr. Zlatibor Vasic and Professor Dr. Aleksandar Jovanovic. Since we choose one of the two candidates proposed, one is elected to be a member of the Council who receives most of the votes of all the MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Zlatibor Vasic as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted yes. I am putting forward a motion to elect Professor Aleksandar Jovanovic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Professor Dr Zlatibor Vasic as a member of the University of Pristina Council. We move to a vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council from the Belgrade University of Art teacher to a period of six years, on a proposal from the University of Art in Belgrade. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Biljana Mašić Alexic and Prof. Dr. Gordana Karan. Since one of the two proposed candidates is elected to be elected, it is necessary to get a larger number of votes, i.e. a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Biljana Mašić as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Gordan Karan as a member of the Council. All 127 MPs voted yes. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Professor Dr. Gordan Karan as a member of the Council of Arts Teachers in Belgrade. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of State University teachers in Novi Pazar for a period of six years, on a proposal from the State University in Novi Pazar. The candidates are doc. Dr. Emir Ćorović and Prof. Dr. Hadji Milos Vidakovic. Since only one who receives most of the votes of all MPs can be selected from the two proposed candidates, I would like to make a statement about the doctor's candidate. Dr. Emir Corovic. Of 127 MPs, all 127 is in favour. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Hadji Milos Vidakovic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs none for. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen a doctor as a member of the Council of State University teachers in Novi Pazar. Dr. Emir Corovic. We approach the vote on candidates for selecting a member of the Council from the university's class teachers who educate teachers for a period of six years, on the proposal of a university that educates teachers of classroom classes whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Sretko Divljan, Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Nedjeljko Rodić and Prof. Krstivove Spionović. Of the four candidates, only one candidate is elected, and that is the one who gets most of the votes of all the MPs. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Sretko Divjan as a member of the Council. Of 127, no one for it. I am putting forward a motion to elect Professor Aleksandar Jovanovic as a member of the Council. Of 127, no one for it. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Nedjeljko Rodic as a member of the Council. Of 127, no one for it. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Krstivova Spionovic as a member of the Council. Of 127, 126 MPs for. The National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, was elected by Prof. Dr. Krstivo Spijunovic, as a member of the Council of College Teachers who educate teachers. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Serbian Language and Literature Society of Serbia for a period of six years, on a proposal from the Serbian Language and Literature Society of Serbia. The candidates are: Prof. Dr. Ljubomir Popovic and Prof. Dr. Bosko Suvidzic. Since one of the two proposed candidates is elected, a candidate will be elected to receive most of the votes of all MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Ljubomir Popovic as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, 126 MPs are in favour. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Bosko Suvajdzic as a member of the Council. Of 127, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has elected Professor Dr. Ljubomir Popovic as a member of the Council of the Serbian Language and Literature Society of Serbia. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Foreign Language Society of Serbia Council for a period of six years, on a proposal from the Association for Foreign Languages of Serbia. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Juliana Vuco and Prof. Dr. Jelena Filipović. Of the two candidates proposed, one is elected and the one who receives most of the votes of all the MPs. I'm putting on a motion to elect Professor Julian Vucci as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, 126 MPs are in favour. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Jelena Filipovic as a member of the Council. Of 127, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has elected Professor Dr. Julian Vuco as a member of the Foreign Language Association of Serbia's Council. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Association of Mathematicalians of Serbia for a period of six years, on a proposal from the Society of Mathematicalians of Serbia. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Branislav Popović, Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Lipkovski and Prof. Dr. Gradimir Vojvodić. Since one of the three proposed candidates is elected, one will be elected who receives most of the votes of all the MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Branislav Popovic as a member of the Council. Of 127, no one for it. I am putting on a motion to elect Professor Alexander Lipkovski as a member of the Council. Of 127, no one for it. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Gradimir Vojvodić as a member of the Council. Of 127, 127 MPs for. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has elected Professor Dr. Gradimir Vojvodic as a member of the Council in the order of the Association of Mathematicians of Serbia. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Serb Biological Society for a period of six years, on a proposal from the Serbian Biological Society. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Bozidar Curčić, Prof. Dr. Lidija Radenović and Ana Blečić. Since one of the three proposed candidates is elected, one will be elected who receives most of the votes of all the MPs. I would like to vote on the proposal to elect Professor Dr Bozidar Curcic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Lidija Radenovic as a member of the Council. Of 127, no one for it. I am putting the motion to elect Ana Blecic as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, 127 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Anna Blecic as a member of the Council of the Serb Biological Society. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council from the Serbian Philosopher's Society for a period of six years, on a proposal from the Serbian Philosopher's Society. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Mile Savik and Rade Kalik. Of the two candidates proposed, one is elected and the one voted for by the majority of the MPs of all MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Mile Savic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I'm putting on a motion to elect Rade Kalik as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not chosen a candidate as a member of the Council of the Serbian Philosopher's Society. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member of the Alliance of Associations of Music and Ballet Pedagogues of Serbia for a period of six years, on the proposal of the Union of Associations of Music and Ballet Pedagogues of Serbia. The candidates are Vojislav Avramovic and Vladimir Markovic. Of the two candidates proposed, one is elected and the one voted for by most MPs of all. I am voting on the proposal to elect Vojislav Avramovic as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I am putting the motion to elect Vladimir Markovic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Vojislav Avramovic from the number of votes received as a member of the Council of the Alliance of Associations of Music and Ballet Pedagogists of Serbia. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Federation of Pedagogical Culture, for the period until 18 March 2015. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Dusan Mitic and Prof. Dr. Nenad Zivanovic. I note that in the election of the first half of the members of the National Educational Council on 18 March 2009, for a six-year term, the National Assembly did not elect anyone from the order of this proposal. Of the two candidates proposed, one is elected and the one voted for by most MPs of all. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Dusan Mitic as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Nenad Zivanovic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Professor Dusan Mitic from the number of votes received as a member of the Council in the order of the Association of Pedagogics for Physical Culture. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Pedagogical Society of Serbia for a period of six years, on a proposal from the Pedagogical Society of Serbia. The candidates are Natasa Stojanovic and Biljana Radosavljevic. Of the two candidates proposed, one is elected and the one voted for by most MPs of all. I am putting the motion to elect Natasa Stojanovic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I am putting the motion to elect Biljana Radosavljevic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Biljana Radosavljevic from the number of votes received as a member of the Council of the Order of the Pedagogical Society of Serbia. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Association of Defectologists of Serbia for a period of six years, on a proposal from the Association of Defectologists of Serbia. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Goran Nedovic and Prof. Dr. Sanja Djokovic. Of the two candidates proposed, one is elected and the one voted for by most MPs of all. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Goran Nedovic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Sanja Djokovic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Professor Sanju Djokovic from the number of votes received as a member of the Council in the order of the Association of Defectologists of Serbia. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Social Society of Serbia's Council for a period of six years on a proposal from the Sociological Society of Serbia. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Zoran Avramović and Prof. Dr. Mladen Lazic. Of the two candidates proposed, one is elected and the one voted for by most MPs of all. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Zoran Avramovic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Mladen Lazic as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Professor Mladen Lazic from the number of votes received as a member of the Council of the Social Society of Serbia. We are voting on candidates to elect members of the High School Community for a six-year period, on a proposal from the Community High School. The candidates are Dr Radivoje Stojkovic and Ivan Ružičić. Of the two candidates proposed, one who receives most of the votes of all MPs is elected. I am putting the motion to elect Dr. Radivoje Stojkovic as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted yes. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ivan Ružičić as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Dr. Radivoj Stojkovic as a member of the High School Council. We move to a vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council from the higher education institutions for educators, to a period of six years. The candidates are Dr Grozdanka Gojkov, at the proposal of the School of Education of Teachers from Vrsac and Dr Sladjana Milenković, at the proposal of the Higher School of Professional Studies for the Education of Teachers from Sremska Mitrovica. Of the two proposed candidates, one who receives most of the votes of all the MPs will be elected. I'm putting on a motion to elect Dr. Grosdanko Gojkov as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I am putting the motion to elect Dr. Sladjana Milenkovic as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Dr. Sladjana Milenkovic as a member of the Council of Higher Educational Studies Council. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Serb Orthodox Church council for a period of six years at the Serbian Orthodox Church's proposal. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Radovan Bigović, Prof. Dr. Bogdan Lubardić and Prof. Dr. Ksenija Končarević. Of the three candidates proposed, only one is elected, and that is the one who receives most of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Radovan Bigovic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Bogdan Lubardic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I am putting the motion to elect Professor Ksenija Končarević as a member of the Council. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Professor Radovan Bigovic as a member of the Council of the Serbian Orthodox Church. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member of the Council from the order of traditional churches and religious communities, for a period of six years. The candidates for selecting a member of the Council from the order of traditional churches and religious communities are: Dr Andrija Kopilović, on the proposal of the Evangelical Christian Church in Subotica, Robert Kovac, on the proposal of the Union of the Jewish municipalities of Serbia and Mr Muhammad ef. Jusufspahic, on a proposal from the Islamic Community of Serbia. Since only one can be selected from the three proposed candidates, and one who receives most of the votes of all MPs, I would like to put forward a proposal to elect Dr Andrija Kopilovic as a member of the Council. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I'm putting on a motion to elect Robert Kovac as a member of the Council. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. Please make a statement. I'm really gonna have to take a break if you're not able to concentrate. I am putting the motion to elect Mr Muhammad Jusufspahic as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Mr Muhammad Jusufspajic as a member of the Council from the order of traditional churches and religious communities. We move to a vote on candidates for the election of a member of the National Employment Organisation from six years to a proposal from the National Employment Organisation. The candidates are Vesna Cekic and Vesna Fabian. The vote gets one of the candidates, and that's the elected candidate who gets most of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Vesna Cekic as a member of the Council. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted yes. I'm putting on a motion to elect Vesna Fabian as a member of the Council. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Vesna Cekic as a member of the Council of the National Employment Organisation. Since we have finished voting on this item of the agenda and thus elected members of the National Educational Council, allow me to congratulate them on yours and on my own behalf and to wish them a lot of success in the work. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the National Council on Higher Education Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft decision, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly exercises electoral authority, most of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the National Council for Higher Education. Of 127 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, adopted the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Council for Higher Education, i.e. to elect Milan Aleksic as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. Allow me to congratulate Milan Aleksic on his election as a member of the National Council for Higher Education on your behalf. We move to the 15th point of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION on the termination of the act of the Committee on Cards since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision, and before we move on to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, decides on the termination of the function of members of the Securities Commission. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the function of a member of the Securities Committee, Prof. Dr. Dejan Malinić. Of 127 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted the proposal for a decision to suspend its role as a member of the Securities Commission, Prof. Dr. Dejan Malinic. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of ID card Laws Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group tabled an amendment proposing that a new member be added in front of article 1. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Viorel Zura. Of the 126 MPs, 17. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 5a. Of 126 MPs, one for. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 5b. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 8a. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote a bill on amendments and additions to the I.D. Act, in general. Of the 126 MPs, 118 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Card Act. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – the proposal for a decision on amendments to the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly exercises electoral authority, most of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of the 126 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We move to the 18th item of the agenda – the list of candidates for the member of the National Educational Council, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly exercises electoral authority, most of the votes of all the MPs. I also remind you, according to Article 13(6). The Law establishing a system of education and education, a list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Education Council, contains more candidates than the number of members elected, so that each MP votes for as many candidates as members of the Council are elected from the order of the prescribed structure. We're moving on to a decision. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member of the Council from the national councils of national minorities over a period of six years. The candidates for the election of one member of the National Minority Council are: Dr Minerva Trajlović Kondan and Vera Novakovic. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. A member of the Council has been elected a candidate who receives most of the votes of all MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Minerva Trajlović Kondan as a member of the Council. Of the 126 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Vera Novakovic as a member of the Council. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Dr Minerva Trajlović Kondan as a member of the Council of National Minority Councils of National Minorities. Let me congratulate on your and my behalf a member of the Council on the election and wish a lot of success in the work. Dear Members of the People, since we have declared ourselves on a summary list of candidates for members of the National Education Council within the 30th agenda and a list of candidates for a member of the National Education Council within the 18th point of the agenda, I ask if you agree that the proposals adopted in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" be adopted as a legally-technically united act by deciding to elect members of the National Educational Council. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 126 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. We're moving on to employee injuries. I would like to remind you of the provisions laid down in Article 103(6) and Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, he may request without the right to explain that the National Assembly is to declare itself in the day of voting. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to a decision. National MP Milos Aligrudic at a session on 12 May 2011, said at 17.10 p.m. he was injured by Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please allow the Assembly to decide whether the said member has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Milos Aligrudic said at a session on 24 May 2011, at 10.55 p.m., that he was injured by Article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic pointed out the violation of article 107 at a session on 24 May 2011. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic said at a session on 24 May 2011, at 11:15 p.m., that he was injured by Article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic said at a session on 24 May 2011, at 4:15 p.m., that he was injured by Article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if the said member has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Dear People's MPs, before I conclude the session, for the sake of a stenogram and minutes, I ask that it be determined that the amendment of the Finance Committee is to Article 50. The law on the protection of users of financial services accepted by 128 MPs, as stated, 107 was for. That's the first finding. Then, please welcome together with applause the conductor and choir members "Bajic's Slavs" of the Music School "Isidor Bajic" from Novi Sad. The Himnu Republic of Serbia is performed by conductor Ana Kovačić and choir members: Laura Milisavljevic, Dusan Stanisic, Simona Vlček, Isidora Dimitrijevic, Vanja Kuhar, Marija Kukuć, Miroslav Milosevic, Aleksandar Dadić, David Campar, Tijana Krulj, Nikola Karvesan, Ivana Đurošev, Alexa Đurošev, Nikola Konstankovic, Angela Stankovic, Kristina Katić, Jelena Luburda, Lidija Krnjajic, Milica Petrovic and Marija Terzic. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011.
