ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64557	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official records of the MPs, I find that 95 MPs attend the session, and to determine the number of MPs who place their seats in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system, please do so. I ask the MPs to review their parliamentary cards whether they are well placed in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that there are 85 parliamentary cards in the parliamentary units, and that there are conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the work of the National Assembly, and that another number of MPs is present in the hall. I also remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in the first position that the MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP. The President-in-Office, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may also exercise his right under Article 1 at a session of the National Assembly orally, in a five-minute address Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if they want the President or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups to exercise their right to Article 286? The People's MP, Riza Halimi, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64558	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked Minister Predrag Markovic on 11 October – what will the Ministry of Culture and Information and the Information Society do to address the problem of lack of information in the Albanian language in RTS. I got the minister's answer to this question, so I'd have to go to the Republic Broadcasting Agency, and the ministry only oversees the Public Information Act. Obviously, the minister tried with this answer to relieve himself of the responsibility arising from Article 5(1). The information law on the obligation of the state to provide part of the funds and other conditions for the operation of public ballots in the languages of national minorities. In fact, in my opinion and this response to the Minister of Culture and Information is only part of the irresponsible approach of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to solve very serious, sensitive life problems in Presevo Valley. Just a little comparison. Currently, the Kosovo Radio Television has only one programme and there are more content classes in Serbian and other minority languages in the programme. In RTS, except for a few minutes in Roma, I don't know there's another language. There are no minutes of information in Albanian without talking about some other software content. It's high time this problem was considered more seriously. If Albanians in the Presevo Valley are citizens of this state, then they must be entitled, like everyone else and as a majority people, let's say as other minorities, and even in the public vote of Vojvodina, to exercise that right. What makes it not in other parts of the state, the state has no obligation to meet their legitimate right to these citizens. In this time I would try from the government, this is my question, if the minister is unable to answer, this same question is addressed to the government, that it gives an answer to this question. I would also ask the Government about the number of employees in the Government of Serbia's Co-ordination Body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, because it is known that this year's budget has led to a significant increase in the position of salaries of about eight million, 25 million were planned, the rebalancing has been reduced to 22, but I see that 24 million net wages are foreseen for the following year, without contributions. It is reportedly a number of Belgrade administration employees who have no direct connection to the Presevo Valley or Presevo municipalities, Bujanovac, Medvedja, for which the Co-ordination Body was formed. Since the legitimate representatives of Albanians failed, under the 2009 agreement, and following that agreement that I signed with the OSCE ambassador and Minister Markovic, there was also a decision by the government on 9 April 2009, setting the norms of the body's body's regulation, in which Albanians were to equally participate and decide on the work of the government's body. But in practice, it didn't happen. As an MP, I was no longer a member, there is no point in being any more, because absolutely no body organ of that Coordination does work, only formally because of the international public being called twice during the year, so that Albanians would give only some democratic coverage of the work of the Coordination Body. (President: five minutes. I was part of the presidency, I signed an agreement on the principles of regulation of the Coordination Body, I couldn't find out how many employees there were? How many employees are there in these two - three years? It's time to get an answer about the number of employees and the type of jobs... (President: six minutes. )......................................................................................................... which is performed by those employees of the Coordination Body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64559	The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64560	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so the time has come to remind the statements of the formerly deceased ambassador of the German state to Belgrade, Andreas Cobel, who said at the time -- don't mind Kosovo's independence very much, because Raska and Vojvodina will come in turn. German diplomacy as much as yesterday and literally yesterday contributed its full contribution to Serbia's demonstration. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said in Pristina yesterday that, among other things, she expects Serbia to disband parallel institutions, as she calls them, in northern Kosovo. It is clear that she meant Serbian institutions and only the state presence of the state of Serbia in northern Kosovo in our southern province. That is not surprising by Angela Merkel, because Germany has recognised Kosovo and itself through yesterday's warm meeting and handling with Hashim Thaci, ignoring Kosovo Serbs, has shown who Germany supports and does not support. On the other hand, President Tadic recently said during a visit to Macedonia that some in Serbia were discouraged because we did not get EU candidate status. Does this mean that Tadic will follow recommendations by March, I hope he does not understand, and Angela Merkel's orders and will, among other things, disbanded institutions in northern Kosovo? What are these Serbs in northern Kosovo? Is it a tribal tribe that should be removed from the path to European integration, so that Serbia can be a modern state? Now they're the only minor brakes on that road by March next year. What do you do with those Serbs? What are you doing with them? Does anyone visit them from the state authorities? Is there a negotiator for Borko Stefanovic in KIM? Is it in Mitrovica, Zvečana, Leposaviæ and Zubi's stream? Is there a KIM Assembly Committee? Six sessions in a row failed to call for a proper session of the KIM Committee. The minister is gone. We can look for him with a candle in Serbia. The Battle of Stefanovic is still missing. They knew they were supporting those Serbs from Kosovo only a few months ago. Where are they today? As of yesterday, literally yesterday, also German Ambassador Mass said, among other things, that the problem of regional representation is very easy to resolve and he suggested how it should be done. On one side of the table on which it says - the state of Kosovo, on the other side of the table on which it says - the state of Serbia. No single representative of the Serbian state called. No single official of the Republic of Serbia has reacted to such a hot slap by a foreign diplomat. Keep your mouth shut as you watered. There are no policies on Kosovo. If there's one thing you do in secret, you cheat on the citizens of northern Kosovo first, they're told one thing, and today they're told another. That's why you're not there. You can't look them in the face. My question is: are the institutions in the north of KiM something important for this government and will there be elections in the north of the KIM Republic but Gods and local ones? We've already asked you that for weeks and months, you haven't answered that question. The DSS has asked that. It is all evidence that Serbia is weak because there are no institutions and the state is thus weak. The weakest institution in this country is the president, is Boris Tadic, who, by system -- kills Serbia and saves himself, Boris, which is what all officials told him, he behaves accordingly to the floscula. Defend Kosovo because it defends yourself. At least be a little selfish, how selfish you are in running this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64561	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64562	On 11 April 2006, a contract was signed on the sale of the social capital of the social company Azotara, Pančevo, to the consortium of legal entities, which sold 100% of the company's total capital. However, on 14 January 2009, the Privatisation Agency broke the contract, with the reason that it was sold by the carbamit 2 plant purchase contract, which is 10.8% of the total value of the company, and the company was timely, i.e. the buyer claimed that it was 3.8% compared to the total value of Azotara on the day of the assessment. That's what the dispute is about in front of international arbitration, external trade arbitration in the Chamber of Commerce, and I don't want to talk about it, we'll wait for the results. However, after the short-term termination of the contract, the company was managed by a temporary representative, and then "Srbigas" as a public enterprise took over the management of 68.44% of the management rights. In its conclusion of 29 July 2009, the Privatisation Agency allowed the Privatisation Agency to decide on restructuring on 3 August 2009, which was in effect on 28 November 2011, when an emergency session of the HIP Azotara Assembly decided to initiate bankruptcy proceedings, following a pre-prepared restructuring plan. Meanwhile, the loss of 31 December 2008, i.e. the registered obligations of Azotara, which amounted to 89.6m euros, rose to 316m euros on 30 September 2011. So, at a time when Azotara was relieved of the obligation to repay debts, the debt was increased by 226m euros. In view of the gravity of the state's participation, the possibility of finding out very openly that there are abuses in this process, the questions to which I seek an answer are the following. What are the financial results of the Azotara arrangement with the Stock Reserve Directorate and Victoria Group on the business of borrowing and selling wheat and corn, and not the subject of the work of Azotara, as it is well suspected that a loss has been made that is measured by tens of millions of euros? Since the arrangement is not yet complete and no final loss is known, we expect data on that as well. Two, claims from customers in the country amount to 39m euros and relate to the sale of goods to companies from which adequate payment security instruments were not taken, so it is assumed that it is in fact a transaction of what our people would say, cashing, i.e. cash withdrawals. Under three, why did Azotara, with certain companies, make contracts for the storage of goods, pay for the transport to the warehouse, unloading, lager and loading, and the goods are not even transported to these warehouses? It is also suspected that it is about fictitious contracts and invoices, i.e. jobs, because the goods were delivered to other customers. Under four, is it true that during the arrest of Deputy Director Mihajl Grujic, on 14 October 2010, he was found in a cash register of 600,000 euros, which, in practice, served as the director of Azotara? Under five, what is the role of Ces Mekon in Azotari and Srbiagas and how much was paid for consulting services related to the acquisition of Azotara by the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" to the bankruptcy through restructuring and how much total amount was paid for those services in "Azotara" and "Srbigas"? Under six, did "Azotara" lend money to companies with which it was not in a business relationship, since there is a reasonable doubt that these loans were used to settle the obligations of the related companies to "Azotari" to purchase goods for delayed payment? Since I am running out of time, I will deliver three more questions on this document to you in writing, and it concerns the company RST, which has a very unusual arrangement in the business of "Srbigas" and how has the supplier chosen the repromary of the investment contractors and how have these obligations been settled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64563	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64564	I would like to address the question of the Minister of the Interior, the Deputy Prime Minister and the First Vice President, and I do not know what titles he has in the name of his duties. I want to ask that question first as Nisli, someone who was born in Nis and who is concerned about the fact that my city is also sinking into the greyness of southern Serbia, which in some ways fits into the grayness of the hopelessness and the stramputs that Serbia has been on for a long time. Not so long ago, the LDP parliamentary group asked the question of the interior minister: Why, for almost two years now, the low-level police administration has no chief, why is it not the chief of staff and why in this way many accumulated problems, not only at the Nis Police Administration but also beyond, start from crime and create criminal environments where they didn't belong and where they didn't find themselves, to the most ground floor problems to be solved, and to which citizens meet on a daily basis? Yes, it is a serious problem that the city of that size and such a centre in southern Serbia does not have a police chief. In the paper, we find some answers to these questions, some given by the interior minister himself. I'll quote some of those answers. For example, one of the answers that almost appeared in the press is that no one wants to accept that function. And there were explanations that Nis had no staff for that place and that it had to be someone on the side anyway. To put it mildly, I was amazed by these answers, because they not only defy the rules of logic, they insult and healthy intelligence. How come no one wants to accept that function? I know at least a few good police personnel who have graduated from Nis College and who have been working with the police for a long time and who would certainly accept that responsibility. And that's the fact that Nis doesn't have the staff for that place. A city that has good staff with enviable educational structure in the ranks of police administration, a city that has a Faculty of Law, a city that also gives good and quality personnel, is suddenly put into context that there is no staff for the chief of police. In the end, a claim which, slightly said to repeat, offends intelligence – that it must be someone on the side. It's absolutely unclear how someone on the side can understand Nisli's problems better, they can understand better how the Nis police in the Nish and the environment should function and they can perform that function better than someone who was born, who grew up in Nis, who studied in Nis and who and how well knows the problems of their citizens and their environment. Let me remind you, we, as a parliamentary group, did not get adequate answers when we asked that question. In the meantime, these are the answers and some claims that irritate not only the citizens of Nis but all of us who have the mandate to represent the interests of the citizens of Nis both in the Assembly and at all levels of the state of Serbia. To repeat the question addressed to the police minister: Why has Nis been gone for almost two years by the chief of police and in what context are the answers that no one wants to accept that function, that Nis has no staff for that function and that it has to be someone on the side, so someone who isn't Nisli? We insist on an adequate and responsible answer to the questions asked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64565	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64566	Ladies and gentlemen, our particular question is addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia. We need to express one kind of concern, if not the shock, because we see that the policy of the Republic of Serbia towards KIM, according to the southern Serbian province, does not lead to parliament, where it belongs, but is run through the media, through some channels that are not available to us and through some agreements that are not verifiable in this parliament and for which there is no agreement regarding a joint declaration and joint debate, and we can see that it is not even possible to maintain the KIM Committee, which is a scandal of its kind and a symptom of one state of non-transparent agreement and arrangements that is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with declarations that have been brought here and with all that shows that national interests in the southern Serbian province should be protected. What exactly is this about? We must come from the media, and from foreign media, from Skopje's Dnevnik, to find out that there are other proposals, that there is a proposal, directly and specifically I will say, by the President of the Republic, that, as one possibility or as one proposal on the Serbian side, it is likely that Mr. Borko Stefanovic will consider the question so-called. dual sovereignty. What does that mean? What examples are there, the President of the Republic explained by calling for example Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. However, it is a completely inappropriate and harmful comparison for the negotiating process involving the Republic of Serbia, against which the SRS is, because we believe that the EU is not a neutral intermediary, but the EU is someone who imposes conditions and who puts pressure on the Republic of Serbia, and these so-called. Kosovo authorities are only an EU instrument. It is clear to every neutral and unscathed observer when he sees these negotiations run. As it is possible for the highest institution, the highest civil servant, Mr President of the Republic, to propose dual sovereignty in respect of the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, if it is known that Northern Ireland is part of the United Kingdom, it is not part of an independent state, it is part of the United Kingdom or of a country recognised by the Republic of Ireland. By simple analogy, logical interpretation, legal interpretation, systematic interpretation, whatever you want, you come to the conclusion that if the Republic of Ireland recognises the UK, then the Republic of Serbia will recognise so-called. Kosovo. This is the result of the interpretation of this harmful proposal, of this inappropriate proposal and of the proposal which is not based even on the right, not in history, not in the economy. You certainly know, in that sense, and we are looking for clarification, as it is possible for the Republic of Serbia to be invited and seen for one contract that was made in 1921, almost 100 years ago, between the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom, to a contract that produced large human victims or about 3,500 people died only in the conflicts in Belfast and the environment between Protestants and Catholics. So it's a completely inappropriate comparison, a comparison that's not good for our national interests and that can't be applied to KIM. We are simply astounded by this kind of unseriousness and by the kind of neglect of Resolution 1244, which, unfortunately, points to the fact that this German pressure should be clearly said, is the pressure of the strongest state in the EU, Germany, and we have seen what happened and what a provocation was essentially this yesterday's visit to Angela Merkel. It's a kind of indulgence under the pressure of Germany, and that should be said loud and clear. It is not about meeting European standards, it is not about meeting the European path, it is about giving in to the pressure of a country and one policy, more specifically, which is not friendly to the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, we see the open threats of Mrs. Merkel, which even mentions some military methods to solve the question so-called. parallel institutions in northern Kosovo. When you look, anyone who's been to Kosovo Mitrovica, anyone who's been to those four municipalities knows there's no "s" from the sovereignty of so-called. Kosovo. So, there is the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia in KIM, it exists in northern Kosovo, and we must not give up because of some phrase that the UN has no alternative, or because of the harmful economic and political path that leads us to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64567	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives, wish to exercise their right under Article 286? Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a national emissary, Maja Lausevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64568	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I refer, in fact, to the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance, which comes from the Assembly of the Association, held on December 12th, Serbian employers -- how does the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance propose what measures, in order to prevent the problem of double taxation of companies registered in the Republic of Croatia, which have representations in the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64569	Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, report for word? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic called for the presence of Vesna Hreljac, Assistant Finance Minister Maja Lakicevic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, Mirjana Bačin, Adviser at the Ministry of Finance – Public Debt Administration and Vuk Dapcevic, adviser at the cabinet of Deputy Prime Ministers. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and uniform search on the draft laws under points 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 10 to 13 and before the opening of the search, I remind you that under Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of the MPs of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Ambassador group Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the parliamentary group PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. Word applications may be submitted until the opening of a principle, common and uniform search on the agenda point. I also inform you that representatives of individual parliamentary groups are authorised: MP Bojan Djuric, LDP parliamentary group, MP Dejan Mirovic, SRS parliamentary group. If another parliamentary group wants to empower one of its members, to represent a group in the debate, please inform us that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 192(3), paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform search: - Proposal for a Law on Delegation of the Republic of Serbia to the Commercial Bank of A.D. for the purchase of the Building "Aeroengineering" and the implementation of the necessary works on the facility for the purposes of housing of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement and the Programme for the Rehabilitation of the Remote Heating System in Serbia - Phase IV amounting to 45,000 euros between KfW Frankfurt at the Main Republic of Serbia, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Loans and Financing between KfW Frankfurt at Main and the Republic of Serbia, amounting to EUR 25,000,000 for the Water Supply Programme and Channeling in Central Size municipalities in Serbia II - Phase 2 - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Changes between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank on the establishment and the activities of the Republic of Serbia. Before I give my word to the proposing representative Oliver Dulic, I would like to inform the National Assembly today, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, of the following, during our working day, of the afternoon and afternoon work, depending of course on the rhythm and course of the debate, we will do just an open joint, principled and unique search from the 10th to 13th points of the agenda. Then, following the conclusion of the joint principle and uniform search, a single principle search will be opened on points that have been united in the whole, from 14 to 18, and when we conclude the search and on these points of the agenda, as the last continent on which the Assembly has declared that the debate is being held in a joint single and principled search, points 18 and 20, and this will end the agenda for today, or work for today, and if necessary, the Assembly will work after 18,00 hours. The usual hourly break will be given, or at least tried to be given, in a logical interruption between the agenda points that we are dealing with in these three joint principle and unique search. Does promoter Oliver Dulic, environment minister, mining and spatial planning want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64570	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have three laws concerning loans that the Republic of Serbia is taking to solve some of the burning problems it has in its system. The first proposal for a 25m-euro law for a 25m-euro loan and financing agreement between KfW, Frankfurt in Main and Republika Srpska for the "Second Supply and Sewerage Programme in Medium-sized municipalities in Serbia II – Phase 2". It's a follow-up project that started a few years ago. The programme includes 14 medium size cities in Serbia and since 2008 the following cities have been included in the programme: Kraljevo, Loznica, Pančevo, Šabac, Smederevo, Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica, Vrsac, Trstenik, Vranje, Leskovac, Jagodina, Aleksinac and Piro. The total amount of debt is 25m euros, and we are sure that after the implementation of this project, citizens of these cities will be entitled to have a good, developed water and sewerage network in their environments as wastewater treatment plants. The second is the bill to confirm the loan agreement and the 45m-euro programme for the rehabilitation of the remote heating system in Serbia, phase four. It is that in many cities in Serbia, rehabilitation of the remote heating system is needed to meet environmental standards, make heating more accessible to our citizens in line with environmental protection and enable it to be more efficient both in terms of energy efficiency and in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. As far as the third law is concerned, it is a draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Commercial Bank for the purposes of the purchase of the Euroengineering building and the implementation of the necessary works on the facility for the purposes of the first basic court in Belgrade. It is a total borrowing that is necessary to establish judicial infrastructure so much in the city of Belgrade and to put the building into office and for the purposes of such an important judicial institution. After debate and review of these laws, I invite you to vote for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64571	Does the word of the Finance Committee rapporteur, MP Branko Ljiljak, vice president of the Committee want? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, the president of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to do so? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64572	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Dulic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a brief explanation, Minister Dulic, but I will try to translate it into that not-so-political language most often spoken in the ranks of the ruling coalition when describing the relationship between Serbia and Europe. If Serbs want to drink water and survive winter, they will have to knock on the door of Europe and find money in Europe that they themselves do not have or are unable to create. From these few sentences of your argument, Mr. Dulic, it is clear to what extent the dishonest and wrong anti-European orientation of the government is, because without the credit we take in Frankfurt from the German bank, we will not be able as a state to give our citizens what we are obliged to do. You were talking about the plumbing, you were talking about the heating. It is clear that these needs must be answered effectively, but now it is a key question - how do we think we are running this society, by constantly being in conflict with those without whom we cannot satisfy this need within society? When is our relationship with Germany an expression of respect for the interest and need of this society, the moment we confront Serbia or the moment we ask Germany to do what we ourselves are unable to do? Of course, these projects should be realised, but in parallel with that, I mentioned only one policy of the price that the ruling coalition does not want to talk about, but in parallel with that, we have to ask some questions that we have been asking here in continuity for years and we have not received an answer from the government, but life has been ruthlessly responding, whether the Government accepts it or not. Mr. Dulic, what about the laws of this country that bind the government? We will discuss the budget when the budget appears here before us and I think it will be in seven days, although the government was obliged to come out with the budget significantly earlier, and we as parliament are obliged to adopt it in half of December. If we do not respect the most important law passed in parliament one year, and this is the Budget Law, why are citizens obliged to, say, respect the rules of financial discipline? Imagine if they had this freedom that the state gave itself because it was not capable of obeying the law and acting in harmony with them. Mr. Dulic, these duties are increasing Serbia's debt. Has anyone thought about how these loans will come back? Is there any rational plan on which we can see that this society will be more efficient when this money is invested in Serbia? Mr. Dulic, when you became Minister of Public Debt, the gross social product was about 33%. Now, according to the NBS, the government violates the rules of financial discipline itself that it has established, breaking the line of public debt of 45% of the gross social product. Who will repay this money and in what way are we in the political situation, primarily because of irresponsible policy and the ruling coalition because we have never been in a deeper misunderstanding with Europe and it has never been more obvious how much of this Europe we depend on? Mr. Dulic, I'd like to ask you why the government didn't try to take credit from the Moscow Bank, for example? How did you get to the German bank? How did you get to the EIB? The only greenfield investment in the banking sector in this country is the Moscow Bank and it is part of a political arrangement. If I were the Director of the Moscow Bank, I would be very pleased, but since I am the head of a party's parliamentary group that has been pointing to the government's unsustainable tendency for years to satisfy political interests that it cannot satisfy with its own policy by expecting others to do the job for it, in return to expose their commercial interests. That's how we privatized NIS. So, among other things, we gave permission to one bank to enter this country and in arrangements with the state make exceptional profits, primarily by placing their money in the country, but not through credit arrangements, like the one you're talking about, because these credit arrangements are more commercially unattractive than those I'm talking about when I ask you why you didn't go to the Moscow Bank, because I suggest every day that the alternative to Europe is on some Ottoman-Austrian border from the Middle Ages. Mr. Dulic, if we're talking about this debt of almost 80m euros, then I need to remind you of a few facts. Thanks to your government's truly incredible economic policy, for at least two reasons, she never wanted to discuss this economic policy. We have never held a debate here in Parliament about the government's economic policy. Here, for example, we have not adopted Serbia 2020's government strategy. Do you know of a country on the planet, except for North Korea, because there is no information from it, in which the country's economic policy strategy was adopted and that MPs did not even have the opportunity to talk about it, to get acquainted with the strategy? Including North Korea, there is no country in the world that has no finance minister in such a difficult economic situation as ours. Are the finance ministers advisers of Mirko Cvetkovic and who treat public finances as party or their own almost private? We will not support this borrowing of yours, not because we are bothered by the government's ambition to solve the problem of water supply or heating in Serbia, not because we have no understanding of the needs of our judiciary, but because it is clear that the price of these loans will actually be an even bigger problem that we will face tomorrow when we see the fact that the government is incompetent, let's say, has begun to pay interest on unsolicited funds, because there are no projects, because ministers are happy and funny, because they are guided by party plots and intrigues long forgotten about the obligations they have to society. What about hundreds of millions approved by the World Bank, the International Financial Corporation or both of the European Investment Bank, the EIB and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and we do not withdraw those funds because we do not have completed projects or are unable to comply with the procedures for obtaining these funds? All this together two or three months before the elections, it actually brings us into a position that we can tell you, Mr Dulic, that despite the support that we have given to every European government effort, we are now present at the break of a political orientation, which is not ready to openly tell society that it cannot count on any kind of development, or even on one elementary that stems from the need for a normal standard of living, without the co-operation of partnership and support of Europe, which we are in conflict with because we give in to politics, pulsism, demagogy, inability and insincereness of those who lead this country. To come to parliament next time, don't come to us with the loans we take in Europe without you running a policy that you are currently leading in relation to Europe, or most specifically to Germany, in which we find money for our needs, but we don't find common language when it comes to politics that we need to lead, not because it's impossible to run that policy, but rather because it's not in your political interest. Of course we will also participate in the budget debate, because it is clear that this is the only way to reach a society that certainly does not understand the interpretations the Government insists on when describing its economic policy. We are a country that has breached the line of debt established by the Fiscal Responsibility Act. We are the country with the highest inflation rate, the highest debt growth, not to mention other segments of our economy. I'll remind you that we've put down the projection of gross social product growth from four and a half to one and a half, that in the following year, 30% of our exports should be put on interest service. It's technically unsustainable. With an inflation rate of about 5%, inflation in the 2% euro zone, what will happen to the $1 billion loan we took at the interest of 7 out of 25? How are we going to serve this, and what are we going to do with Serbia then? So the projects are probably necessary, so we don't need to be bickering about it. The situation you're in is pretty pointless, but you're in front of the government because there's no finance minister. With you talking about public debt, the Fiscal Responsibility Act, I don't think it makes sense, because we don't want to use you here as a target because there's no one else in front of the government, but together we can't get away from that simple truth that I said in the language of Ivica Dacic and Boris Tadic, in the language of the "little Morgen" policy. When this society thinks of water and heating, then it needs to understand that this society will not meet its needs by waiting for someone in Belgrade, but, unfortunately, this society depends on someone who is successful and who leads a different policy in Europe. And that's what citizens of all these cities and municipalities that you've pushed, citizens who can't meet the basic needs of life in the 21st century. It is a common failure of those who have led this country for years, we do not like these facts, but above all we are bothered by this political dishonesty that is further poisoning our society, which is unable to understand the facts with which you have come to parliament because it has never been spoken in Serbia in the language of political truth. The truth in front of the citizens, and then the choice of politics will be easier. And life on European money, with a head in Gazimestan or somewhere on the other side of the Urals, is not a long-term life, and we will no longer find happiness for the people who live in this country, and neither for ourselves, if we continue to affirm that policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64573	It was used 12 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group president. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64574	I will discuss this set of laws, in the time of authority, only the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Commercial Bank, for the purposes of buying the Aeroengineering Building and carrying out the necessary works on the facility for the purposes of the first basic court in Belgrade. Then in the debate, I will talk about loans to the German Development Bank for the second phase of projects that have been going on for several years. First of all, I think this law on borrowing with the Commercial Bank for the needs of the Court speaks of at least two things: the failed reform of the judiciary and the damages we have suffered as a society because of the stubbornness of the government not to accept the offer of the opposition party and to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act, which has been under way since February of the month and that, given what the amendment and addition of that law offered, saves this country some funds. First of all, it should be said that the effectiveness of the reform implemented has been said by many abroad. The fact is that we haven't improved efficiency, that we have a lack of judges, that the judiciary is grouped, and that suddenly we don't have room for that First Court, and we've had room for five municipal courts that have undoubtedly worked much better than this one. We have been reorganised, conditioned by reorganisation, a massive court for Belgrade territory, which works twice as slow as the former five municipal courts, we are still talking about the same size of work, which has a shortage of judges and employees, and now suddenly it needs an Aeroengineering Building at a price that is hard to understand. What has been delivered to us as Members of the material is something that is a problem and we have been warning for a long time, the application of the negotiation procedure, in completely unwarranted circumstances, simply offends both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, and costs us all as citizens of Serbia. The material argues that the offer of the Commercial Bank was selected as the most favourable for the procurement of credit services in the negotiation process, and without the publication of a public call made because the government called for exceptional urgency. This kind of negotiation procedure is applied when, I quote, the law, because of the exceptional urgency caused by emergency circumstances or not intended events, so we are now stressing, whose performance is in no way dependent on the will of the client, the client could not act within the time limits set for open or restrictive proceedings. Everyone knows that I quoted Article 24 paragraph 1 point 4). Has this been an unforeseen circumstance or a reform been going on for so long, it's been talked about for so long, the transfer, the grouping and the courts' accommodations have been so publicly, challenged, supported, praised? This really isn't right to say that the word is urgent, to cause extraordinary circumstances or unforeseen events that you couldn't influence in any way. Now about the deadlines and the urgency. In the notice of choice for the most favourable offer on the public procurement portal on 28 November, it is hereby justified to apply such a procedure. It writes – The Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia is for the purposes of the Justice Ministry, the First Basic Court on 27 June 2011 with Aeroengineering d.o.o. in bankruptcy concluded a contract on the sale of movable and immovable assets, as well as an annex to the contract on that property, as of 23 September, which extended the deadline for payment of the purchase price until 30 November 2011. The contracted purchase price is 800 million dinars. Article 3 of the Law on the 2011 budget of the Republic of Serbia provides that the Republic of Serbia will approve projects and programme loans in 2011, including for the purchase of the Aeroengineering Building and the implementation of necessary work on the rehabilitation and adaptation of the facility for the needs of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. All of this amounts to a billion and 331 million and 200,000 dinars, respectively, in the original currency of 13m euros. The most cynical part published on the portal, so that the Ministry of Justice would not arrive in the wake of the unilateral termination of the contract by the company "Aeroengineering" in bankruptcy, was necessary within the shortest time period of time to implement the public procurement process in the long term. I am now asking you present, the public of Serbia and those who delivered this to us - if, as the legislator of this law states, Article 3. The 2010 Act on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia provides that the Republic of Serbia will approve project and programme loans, among other things, for the purchase of the Aeroengine building and for the implementation of the necessary works on the rehabilitation and adaptation of the facility for the purposes of the First Basic Court of First Instance of 13m euros, and the Government concluded on 24 February of this year on the acquisition of state property of the building "Aeroengineering", if the Republic Directorate for Property on 27 June, with the company "Aeroengineering" d.o.o. in bankruptcy, a contract on the sale of movable and immovable property was concluded, the question arises, why did the government launch the procurement procedure only on November 3rd? Let me repeat, at the end of 2010, we brought in a budget, where the loan, with a specific purpose, was planned. In February you reached a conclusion on the acquisition of the building, the Republic Property Directorate signed a buy-in contract in June, and you are launching a public procurement procedure in November. The provision of Article 24, which I quoted at the outset, clearly states that the circumstances that caused the exceptional urgency cannot be in any way related to the client, that their appearance, these extraordinary circumstances, cannot depend on the will of the client. Would someone be willing to explain to me, and how does the government without its will lead to such a stretch of deadlines in the process of carrying out something she intended to do back in 2010? So one possible conclusion is that the government has deliberately put itself in a position not to act within the deadlines provided for in the open procedure. This procedure has also been chosen on purpose, as a potential demand for consumer protection, e.g. from some competitor who would offer a more suitable building at lower prices, not to prevent the conclusion of the contract. Because only in such a procedure and when the reason for urgency is stated, protection of consumer rights does not prevent the customer from concluding the contract. That's why you won't change the Public Procurement Act. That's why you didn't want any changes or additions to allow. It serves only as a front for promoting competition and public proceedings. Based on everything I've told you, it's clear that the conditions are not met to apply the negotiation procedure without making a public call the way you did. Now, not to keep everything in the story, we ask the Ministry of Justice and the Government to submit a report to the Finance Committee on the negotiated procedure and to request the Public Procurement Authority until you have abolished it, to give its opinion on the basis and regularity of this procedure. The primary reason why we're looking for this is because the Public Procurement Administration for the first half of 2011 identified irregularities in such negotiating procedures, where the abuse of exceptional urgency was used as a reason, abuse worth 1.4 billion dinars. Only one procurement made by the government by abuse of proceedings and deliberate delay is a billion and 331 million and 200,000 dinars. All that others abuse in six months, the government does in one procedure. I point out once again that, therefore, this example very clearly illustrates how dangerous it is to obtain real estate, which is to amend and supplement the law, and you have changed many laws to worse than the original texts, which is not applicable to the acquisition of immovable property by the public procurement law, even if this is bad. Because if they were, you could never do this. Or maybe I'm wrong. This government thinks it can do anything, because such acts go unpunished. Now we're asking the whole thing. Since the purchase price is 800 million and the loan is 13m euros, the question is raised – how is the value of the necessary works on the adaptation and recovery of the facility in the rest of the five million dinars? By the way, the proposal you sent us here, it's not supposed to be how credit use is going to be done, what's the plan for the withdrawal, what's the plan and the amount of the payment of the loan? Everyone who's ever done any public procurement procedure knows it's a mandatory part of the competition's documentation, even in this process. Why are you hiding it from the public of Serbia and from us MPs? We have fought with Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic to provide MPs and the public with a contract with banks and other financial institutions when it is ratified by the Assembly. We don't want to verify here by vote or opposition, and we don't really know what it stands for or who it stands for. Why didn't you provide us with this mandatory part of the contract, or competitive documentation, and it exists unequivocally? For example, according to the loan withdrawal plan, the start of the loan payment is also determined, so I quote, you say – the release of the first tranche of credit into the course, which depends on the dinar equivalent of the loan. Since there are no elements, as well as other elements found in the text of the bill and which will be in the contract, for me, they are, most frighteningly, indeterminate. On the side of the opposition when we are currently promoting dinar loans, our currency and when we try to eliminate the risk of borrowing in euro, we talk all the time as if we are members of the European Monetary Union, where the home bank, the Commercial Bank, we want not to devalue the credit and call it the dinar equivalent, although the cost of using is not at all low so that we can say, here now, because the loan is the dinar equivalent of payment because it is paid in the country, so it's defined as being 13 million euros and plus, not at all, insignificant or easy terms of borrowing. Finally, if the deadline for payment of the purchase price is November 30th, the government is already late. I've never seen him write a payment of a tight interest, or it's part of what we didn't deserve, as talkative, barking messengers, to find out. The Serbian Progressive Party has a completely different view on the procurement of the building to the First Basic Court and we have submitted it to you with amendments and explained it to you. In every section where you mention the purchase we wrote that you should actually get for the needs of buying a building, so you delete "Aeroengineering" and "implementation of works", and change the words" for building a building". The Aeroengineering Building, which is the subject of purchase, I believe that each of us knows what this building looks like, is according to its architectural and technical characteristics such that even the most expensive adaptation can be very difficult to adapt to the needs of the court. It should also be taken into account that this building is very old, abandoned and that nothing has been invested since construction. How the 110 courts that need to be equipped with software connections, computers, power supply will be equipped, how much it will cost, will that exceed the basic value of the contract that you're coming here to ratify, we'll avoid it if you accept the solution that we offer you. You've listed what the price of buying and useful building surfaces are. We have a source that says it's nine and a half thousand square meters, on B 92 there's information that it's 7,800 and now we're saying that the prices of squares, meaning unconditional, old and detached buildings move between 850 and 1000 euros per square. Can such a large space be bought at that price? Is that allowed? If, I'm sorry that Mr. Dulic came out, there's room to be built and he's doing it through one part of his project where your adaptation goes 500 euros per square, that actually building a new building can cost a lot less and the adaptation itself, in an old building like this will take longer than building a new building. So we think it's much better according to the project, and I'm reading in the press that Elkoms worked and the project, so you have projects that should look like a building from those 110 courtrooms, so here you are, government and land management. There is a large number of space that can be used for this purpose in New Belgrade, there may be appropriate parking spaces along with it. Here now with a bridge on Ada or via Ada, as you call it, the citizens will come easily and quickly and have a place to park and to ensure easier and faster access and more conditional work and people in the judiciary and the citizens who need to use this building. Also, we have a very interesting proposal to make the funds, which is most important for the reconciliation of this obligation, are not used from the budget, but rather to sell the Fourth and Fifth Municipal Court, because you have made the reform of the judiciary a small number of employees, good enough and quality enough to be able to do all the work, so from the sale of these two courts and of the increased court fees or better charges, please settle down the building that will be much cheaper, if in such a procedure you provide for the First Municipal Court, rather than in the way you have foreseen here, and by trying to correct any privatisation errors that have failed to complete the process of selling or in bankruptcy the process with the "Aeroengineering". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64575	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome students of Belgrade Business School, High School of Professional Studies, who are visiting the House of the National Assembly and are currently monitoring part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. The presence is: Samardžić Ilija, Belić Milan, Filipović Milovan, Filipović Luka, Stojmirović Ljubisa, Malešević Ljiljana, Đurović Đurić Zvezdan, Vučičević Slobodan, Kostić Dušan, Borota-Tišma Ankica, Jokanovic Vesna, Lekić Snežana, Matović Dragan, Randžić Draga, Samaržić Mile, Branković Nenad, Stojan, Rajković Bosilka, Vasić Branka, Ždrnja Ivana, Stanković Zorica, Jovčić Milan, Odjalović Tomo, Lomas Aleksandar, Mrja Bojan, Karakaš Nedeljko, Matijaš Zlatko, Bojković Cedomir, Tomić Saša, Koć Stefan, Bakal Miloš, Nedić Miloš, Nedić Milasović Milov, Milović Milov, Milović, Milović, Mirjavić Poš, Mirjavić, Mirjavić, Mirjavić, Mirdjanović, Mirdja, Mirjavić, Mir, Mirna Mir, Mir, Mirnović. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Dejan Mirovic has the word, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64576	Thank you. Today on the agenda we have multiple contracts with the German Development Bank and, unfortunately, from our point of view, from the point of view of the SRS that always stands for the domestic banking system, for one national policy and in the financial sphere, it is a sad fact because after 2001, we do not have the opportunity to create one of our development banks, one bank that would finance our businessmen, our exports and all of these projects that are mentioned on the agenda, because, as you know for sure, I am sorry that there is no Mr Cvetkovic, as former and current finance minister, four development banks have been shut down because of the demands of the World Bank and the IMF and instead of creating one development bank, today we take unfavourable loans from the German Development Bank. My colleagues and I will prove that these are unfavourable loans, that the conditions of these loans are bad and that they are, that is, the essence of these loans, aimed at improving the work of German forms on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This is the essence of these loans, and this is something we should not run away from, but rather look the truth into the eyes and see that the German Development Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and all other banking institutions related to Germany and the EU are essentially and in fact giving credit to their consultants, their firms, while at the same time Serbian businesses, Serbian workers, Serbian construction companies are mostly losing their jobs. These are the facts behind these loans and we will prove them in the debate, of course, and we will show that it was much better that these funds were directed towards our businesses and our people facing growing unemployment. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the draft law confirming the agreement on amendments to the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Unfortunately, the minister did not say a word about the agreement. We think it's very important and it's so-called. Co-operation with the European Investment Bank or a bank which is, in fact, one of the types of consulting institutions or bodies of the EU, the European Investment Bank is one factor in financial and economic terms that determines the direction of these loans and the acquisition of public procurement. In fact, through these unfavourable conditions, the Law on Public Procurement is suspended, which is a disaster and a scandal for which, above all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible. The European Investment Bank that we are discussing today, i.e. an agreement to be changed with the European Investment Bank, as you know, was established in 1957 by the Roman accords, the Lisbon Treaty has already gained a second function and become an EU advisory body. However, behind the European Investment Bank, this should be said openly, Germany stands, as Germany is the main shareholder of the European Investment Bank. Germany has invested most of the funds in it and with other major European Union countries, Italy, France and the UK, has a majority in the Board of Governors, there are over 50% of the votes in the body that decide on the establishment of the European Investment Bank. The European Investment Bank is in fact taking loans on the financial market and continuing to direct them towards market interest. So it's not about any aid, it's not about any philanthropic or any other motives, it's about market laws, it's about the bank behind which Germany stands, and it's about making it clear when it comes to some kind of assistance from the European Union, some kind of good intentions and the like. Also, as regards the agreement with the European Investment Bank, it should be stressed that it is only part of a framework agreement with the European Investment Bank, which the Republic of Serbia signed several years ago and which was published in international contracts in 2009, i.e. in the official messenger. It is simply a framework contract, whose agreement we are discussing today is part of, a framework contract that is more than harmful to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to the enterprises of the Republic of Serbia and especially to construction firms. It is simply enough for you to look at Article 6 of this Framework Agreement with the European Investment Bank and it will be clear to you that this Article 6 is effectively suspending the Law on Public Procurement of the Republic of Serbia or a law that is more than important and the law on which we today, yesterday and every day listen as if it were a big problem with corruption. We from the Serbian Radical Party think that is not the case and that the main problem, as regards the Law on Public Procurement, is the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and all those banks that suspend fair and equal conditions regarding public procurement. More specifically, and I will be quite specific, you have in Article 6 of this Framework Agreement, I quote, that the bank can occasionally agree and finance projects by agreeing to participate in public competitions and other concrete procedures. What does that mean exactly? It does not take much interpretation to bear in mind that the European Investment Bank or the bank behind which Germany is standing will literally finance and force banks, firms and construction companies from the Western part of the EU. That is the essence of this agreement with the European Investment Bank. That is the essence of all our relations with the European Investment Bank. We have concrete evidence of that and it's not any conspiracy theory or any conjecture now. Look who's building the bridge at Beska. See who is building the Žeželov Bridge in Novi Sad, the bridge on Ada, who is renovating Gazela and who is doing all the roads in the Republic of Serbia. Foreign companies, and our bridge building that built those projects or the Energy Project, have to go to African countries on the Russian Federation market to get a job. It's a scandal. This leads to this poor negotiation with the European Investment Bank or with the Bank behind which the Federal Republic of Germany stands. These are facts that cannot be escaped, if you look at them and interpret them in economic, legal or any sense. This is also due to the phrase that the EU has no alternative in economic and other terms. Of course there is an alternative, the alternative is Serbia, the alternative is to help our businesses, our workers, our construction companies, those who deal with these contracts, which we are going to consider today, about heat and water. They have and there are our construction companies, there are companies in these areas that will do it better and at less cost to the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is a fact and the SRS is, among other things, against the phrase that the EU has no alternative and that the EU is a rescue in economic terms for the Republic of Serbia. No, it's not true, it's bad and it's a disaster for the Republic of Serbia both in economic and political terms and whatever you want, starting with the abduction of Kosovo, i.e. 15% of our territory goes on. As regards this framework agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia, there is also another one for us that is incomprehensible in the legal sense of that word, that the competence of the European Court of Justice is foreseen. How is that possible? What lawyer wrote this? Is it possible for you to recognise the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice, although Serbia is not an EU member? That's scandalous. This does not even exist in Germany, which stands out of this European Investment Bank and these loans from the German Development Bank, but there is one subtlety and primacy of national law over the EU. It is only for us that a judicial authority such as the European Court of Justice may be in charge of something relating to national law. This is completely incomprehensible and we think that it should simply be rejected, that this provision is essentially void and that it is destroying the legal coherence of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Also, in Article 10 of this Framework Agreement with the European Investment Bank, it is mentioned that there will be a possibility of subbrogating or crossing the claim of some other creditors, which is once again a form of legal uncertainty and a form of confusion being introduced into the legal and economic system of the Republic of Serbia. As far as this contract is concerned, the framework loan contract, and so should be highlighted, because the details we do not know and we will only see these details, we hope in the National Assembly, or it will again be non-transparent in that EU context, of 45m euros from the German Development Bank is for heating in certain parts of Serbia. The preamble again mentions that public procurement will be effectively aligned with the conditions of the OCD, which again leads us to the conclusion that the simple Law on Public Procurement is suspended and that you simply have some institutions, primarily the European Investment Bank, the German Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank and the IMF, which have a championship on the financial and economic market of the Republic of Serbia, leading to further unemployment, the fall of industrial production and, of course, further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and the payment of enormous and interest on the financial market of the Republic of Serbia. It is also a completely confusing definition that the Republic of Serbia, in the preamble to this agreement with the German Development Bank, will contribute 9.250m euros, which is completely incomprehensible. If you get credit, how can you give another nine million euros in fact, just over nine million euros? So this is not explained in the preamble and this shows that this contract with the German Development Bank is simply unclear, incorrect and that it needs to be further defined. This once again shows that our definition is true, which is that it is a framework agreement whose goal is to re-emphasise the fact that German firms are performing on the market of the Republic of Serbia. This is a fact that cannot be denied in a legal and economic sense and which is indicated by interpretation and other members of this contract, a framework contract with the German Development Bank. See Article 2 of this Treaty and Article 1 where one agency is formed to make these heating operations. It is not written which companies will be in the agency and it is not listed, for example, that it will be companies from Serbia, but rather a single interpretation, a kind of interpretation or a kind of legal void that the agency will be, for example, companies from Western Europe, and most likely it will be companies from Germany. There's no guarantee it won't happen like that. Also, why is this agreement harmful? It's also harmful because of a large number of commissions, a large number of tight interest provisions, a flat-rate fee. For example, Article 4 states that the commission is about 0.25% for, watch out now, an unpaid part of the loan. So you're going to pay for the unpaid part of the loan that, as it exists here in the table, is in the wars, you're going to pay a huge commission of 0.25%. After that, Article 4 also states that there is a compensation for the business of 0.5% of the principal. It is about 250,000 euros and we are literally giving rich and developed Germany 250 000 euros as a kind of gift. That's what this bad loan's got to do with it. Also, Article 7 of this framework loan agreement with the German Development Bank states that there is a tight interest of some 300% base points and that there is another flat rate charge of 300% of the base points, which shows that it is one conditioned loan, that it is a credit that is bad, which is non-transparent and which is one type of burden on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, not one development loan or one loan that will lead to a improvement in this sphere which it regulates, i.e. As far as heating is concerned. From a legal point of view, it is completely incomprehensible that one party to this contract, which is the German Development Bank, may have the right to file an account based on credible evidence. What's convincing evidence? How is it possible for one side to interpret what is convincing evidence? I guess that should be interpreted by arbitration or a court of law. It's completely incomprehensible. This shows that there is no equality between the Republic of Serbia and the German Development Bank. Because it's impossible for one party in the dispute to automatically be right based solely on the definition that it can provide convincing evidence. It can be determined in the case of a dispute only opinion and position of some arbitration, for example the International Trade Arbitration in Paris, not arbitration in Frankfurt, as stated here in both contracts with the German Development Bank, and again shows that it is simply an unfavourable loan, a loan that is simply not the result of equal will between the two sides. It is also quite scandalous that the Republic of Serbia has committed to paying part of the tax on this loan to German taxes. It is as if you claim that the Republic of Serbia is part of the SR Germany. It is not true, it is not true, maybe someone thinks it is so, maybe someone thinks they should give in to both KIM and the economy, and in the so-called European integrations, but in a legal-formal sense, the Republic of Serbia is not up to the SR Germany legal-financial system. These are the facts, although formally so, in fact it is a second question and that is already a question for another debate, it is a question for the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and so on. Furthermore, if there is an increase in costs, it is stated in Article 10 of this harmful contract that they can come as a consequence of central bank measures, changes in laws or multilateral contracts. So, when you look at this and the language, logically, legal and any other interpretation, you will conclude that if Mrs Merkel or Mr Sarkozy changes the Lisbon Treaty, then there may be a change in the loan contract that the Republic of Serbia takes or, more specifically, to take further and additional costs, as stated in Article 10 of this harmful and bad loan agreement with the German Development Bank. So this is about one non-transparent, one conditioned, one framework agreement that will not contribute to a better economic situation in the Republic of Serbia. I think the essence of both contracts with the German Development Bank and I urge you to pay particular attention to Article 11, where it is said that the Republic of Serbia and the agency that will be formed to carry out this 45m-euro loan is obliged to "trust good consultants in international tenders". We don't need some big brain, we don't need any special interpretation to come to a conclusion based on previous loans concluded with the European Investment Bank, with the German Development Bank and with all other so-called. European banks, that it will be consultations from the Western part of the EU. Since it's about the German bank, it's probably going to be about consultants from Germany. That's a fact. So Serbia will be in charge of paying German consultants to pay German companies. That is the essence of this harmful and bad contract with the German development bank of 45m euros. Also, as I have already said, in Article 14, more than harmful, the jurisdiction of arbitration in Frankfurt is cited, rather than arbitration that is generally known, international arbitration of the International Arbitration Chamber. Also, all of what we have said about the previous 45m loan can also be seen even more about the next loan with the German Development Bank of 25m euros, more specifically at 17m euros and some 7.5m financial contributions. The financial contribution, more than clear when you look at the provisions of the 17m-euro contract, will be paid to German firms, German consultants to deal with water supply problems in the Republic of Serbia. It is a scandal and another proof that the phrase that the EU has no alternative is harmful in financial, economic, political, legal and any other sense to the Republic of Serbia. Also, it is a conditional, framework agreement, as Article 1 of this 17m-euro contract or 25m euros states that special contracts will only be concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the German Development Bank and that so-called. The financial contribution, referred to in the preamble, may be reduced or conditioned. So it is not certain that these 7.5m euros will at all be paid, to whom they will be paid and that they will ever come to the Republic of Serbia. Also, Article 4 of this Treaty states that a commission of 0.25% to be paid by the Republic of Serbia, a commission of 0.25% of the principal and interest, in addition to all these large fees, of 3.49%, will be prescribed again. You certainly know that every interest and 3% is bad in economic and legal terms for the borrower. Of course, Article 7 mentions a tight interest, in Article 11, what is main for the German so-called. partners is that the project of these 17 or 25 million will be entrusted to consultants and firms that will apply for international public procurement, namely German firms, German consultants and all those who increase unemployment and bad living standards in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64577	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled and uniform search, the application for a word, and in writing, with a number of MPs, the distribution of parliamentary groups: LDP, Forward Serbia and the SRS. We move to the part of the session when the right to speak comes from the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search of the proposals for the laws referred to in points 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the agenda. The first to be reported is MP Bojan Djuric, followed by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64578	Dear Vice President, I signed up before this second session was opened, to take advantage of those seven and a half minutes of the remaining time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, so I'm going to speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64579	National MP, you can now use 14 minutes 24 seconds as much as you have as a parliamentary group. It's all the time you can use, so please, according to the Rules of Procedure, that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64580	I don't think that's correct, since you and I talked about it a dozen minutes ago at the chair table and we agreed...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64581	National MPs, I have made it clear to you and my colleagues, Vice-President Judit Popovic, the authorised representative or president, can share his exposure in two parts, one before the debate begins, and the other when the list is exhausted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64582	I checked in then.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64583	People's MP, now the list has begun. You're the first registered speaker on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64584	All right, don't just yell at me, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64585	People's MP, I warn you to treat other participants in the session with respect and not even try to disrespect the rules you were obliged to read before you even took part in any session. A clear and clear rule in the Rules of Procedure which describes how the session takes place in the joint principle and uniform search is that the presidents and the authorised representatives receive the word immediately after the committee's proposings and rapporteurs, that at that time the MPs who have been declared in accordance with the order of the list and that, when the list of speakers is exhausted, all those who have not applied their rights and, of course, the Proposer have the right to speak. I ask you most kindly to use your right to say your word with respect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64586	I just wanted to say what I'm going to really talk about and how I'm going to talk about it. I thought I'd start my presentation with an analysis of what Mr. Mirovic said in terms of commercial or trade law and perhaps some mistakes in his presentation, but after this analysis of you, I really won't go in and I won't criticise Mr. Mirovic, I'll stick to some other things. There is no Mr. Dulic, the minister, as a representative of the government, so it's very difficult to deem, there were no answers to his questions asked here in the first part of the session. In spite of that, there is one political problem, which we are talking about here, and in an analysis of this problem and perhaps seeking a solution, it prevents us, primarily, from the behaviour of the ruling coalition's representative, not only the coalition that first signed for these points of Mr. Bozidar Djelic's agenda, which in the meantime resigned, not the problem that these contracts, agreements with the German bank signed by Prime Minister and Finance Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who is not here today, nor that any of the representatives of the ruling coalition are responding for a word or at least not speaking in this first part, when they speak to authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. I promised I wouldn't do much to expose Mr. Mirovic, but I only have one sentence, all he said, I think he'll deserve to be in some of the first minutes of Hedov's two RTS. Simply the last days of the "Dnevnik" of two RTSs, it actually looks like what Mr. Mirovic was saying. This anti-German campaign that's being conducted in our media, this truly incredible insolence, that you have the beginning of a television "Dnevnik" that talks about it – Germany different from Brussels, German blackmails towards Serbia, all of us in Europe love, only Germany hates us, and in the follow-up to Dnevnik you have a contract on unscamatic loan from Germany to help the construction industry in Serbia, i.e. to increase energy efficiency. You have a debate here in the Assembly today, wherever we are talking about two loans from the German bank, in fact, under conditions that are far more favourable than the third loan, means the Commercial Aero-engineering Bank, which we are talking about here today, and not to talk about what kind of credits were, as the right was agreed, how relations and procedures are regulated, let's say in our contracts that are related to the implementation of the energy agreement, i.e. the privatisation and investment agreement in Serbia's "Gasprom Naft" oil industry, as the company is already called. If we can make that clear a little bit, what are the conditions of these loans, therefore, a loan relating to construction, or revitalisation of the remote heating system in Serbia, at an interest rate of 2.5%. There is this view of the economy and banking business that says that any interest above 3% is unfavourable for those who take credit, but I must remind you that this rate, a fixed rate of 2.5% per year, is practically at the level of the average inflation rate in the countries of the European Union, i.e. in the era. So the loan we get in the amount of 45m euros will actually come back without real interest, so we will only pay what is the inflation cost in the countries of the European Union. There's something higher interest on the credit arrangement for water supply and sewerage, it's 3.5%. In order to compare how favourable the interest we receive from the German bank, or the German state, can also serve us this third contract that we are confirming here today, it is a loan agreement for our state, with our majority state bank, the Commercial Bank, whose interest terms are determined in the following way. So, the six-month euroribor plus a fixed margin of 4.2%. That's between 5.9 and 6% at this point. Today we take two loans per interest of 2.5% and 3.5% and a loan to the domestic bank at 6% interest. So much for helping the domestic industry, the domestic banking sector and how much better it will be for Serbian citizens if loans are taken from domestic banks. On the other hand, this debate is interesting, regardless of what MPs of the ruling coalition are involved in. There are arguments here that are also political, which speak about the attitude of the German state towards our government. However, the contracts also stipulate that the German federal government will provide guarantees for the realisation of these loans. So there will be some sort of debate in the German parliament. I fear the same kind of political argument will be launched in this House. Which is why it enters such favourable arrangements, which is why the German state in a certain way finance or co-finances the construction of municipal and other infrastructures in Serbia, while the soldiers of the same state die in northern Kosovo and while it is part of it, or at least it was part of the official Serbian policy. Neither Liberal Democratic Party MPs nor Serbian Radical Party MPs can give that kind of paradox. The answer to these questions, the answer to the question of bilateral relations with Germany, the answer to the question of how we will finance these and similar projects in the coming years, unless we have contractual arrangements with the European Union, if we stop our European integration path should be given by government representatives. And it cannot be the director of the European Integration Office, which, with all due respect to Mrs Delevic, is a technical or bureaucratic function, the answer to this question must be given by politicians in Serbia. Those who, at the same time as the agreement was signed, spoke very affirmatively on 29 September about what happened in Jarinj, two or three days earlier, as well as those who, meanwhile, declared victory over certain countries that allegedly do not want Serbia in the EU. I suppose at that moment, thinking of Germany with which they signed and planned to ratify credit arrangements to about 70,000,000 euros only through this tranche. No minister, I can't ask him any more specific questions. We talked a few days ago about the problems that Serbia's Construction Directorate has with the Internet presentation, and in the meantime it turns out that the construction directorate is obviously having much bigger problems building apartments in Kosovo, with some past times. I suppose this will solve investigations and court proceedings but it simply speaks to how effective our state bodies or state institutions or quasi state-owned enterprises are in the realisation of these projects. We're in charge of 70m euros today, and we'll be returning the loans for the next few years, and in the meantime, we'll be in charge of 4.5 billion euros in 2012 next week. For the most part, we will use these funds to repay the loans we took over the past few years. Today I guarantee you that if this policy continues, somewhere before the end of this grace period, which is practically foreseen in all three contracts, we will have to take new loans, at significantly more unfavourable rates, and I am sure that these rates will be much more unfavourable if we stop our European integration, or if we do not renew them already in February or March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64587	Seven minutes and 28 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, and after that, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64588	The next two loans I want to talk about are loans from the German State Development Bank, KfW, which seems to me due to associations on a long-planned basis, and never achieved the job of setting up a domestic development bank in Serbia, is fully deliberately called only the German Development Bank, and that in fact neglects what I'm really interested in, which is the property structure of that German State Development Bank. Regardless of conspiracy theories, there may be some German revenge for Serbs, as someone thinks, of a very unpleasant role that Mr. Mass, for example, found himself in yesterday, why the distinguished Mrs. Merkel was in Kosovo, and she's not here. I think the principle of functioning is both the German state and the German Development Bank, something we should have learned at least 10 years from now to have our own development bank. We also had a basis to create it in the deposits of four large shut-down banks on which there are reliable data on what the funds were, in the deposits of the state and its current accounts from the level, the state-of-the-art, and now the republican states, the local authorities who kept their own free deposits or daily inflows in the business banks of others, and not their development bank that could be the cheapest base and the cheapest source of funds to invest in what the state set as a priority. We have not learned this for many years, but we have managed to anger a great Germany by the way we have paid interest and undrawn funds, and we have certainly supported this country with loans of all kinds and for energy efficiency, all of which, by purpose and jurisdiction of the German State Development Bank, which is financing housing, knowledge such as education, energy efficiency, development of municipal and other infrastructure. But to those to whom the money is being paid, and on their part, they have been very successful in financing and exporting their products, as well as exporting their knowledge through experts who have been staying with us in such water companies, i.e. water pipelines, enterprises that have dealt with the competences of water and sewers, as well as rehabilitating the remote construction system in Serbia. They financed them and the development of a system of protection and resolution of deposits with us. There were a lot of grants, there were a lot of funds that we knew the exact price and purpose for at all times. What I'm particularly pleased to say is that Germany is a country to be seen for how it monitors its companies by financing their exports, lending to customers countries, which we are, I can read freely objections or observations or by getting to know the public with details of contracts that, for example. concluded in April 2006, and the rehabilitation of the local heating system in Serbia, phase III or to read the 2003 Treaty will be equal. There's a fine on unrestricted assets that's called a payment of 0.25% a year from the basic value of the contract. The borrower will pay an operating fee of 0.5 for the total amount of loans at the first moment and should not seek anything hidden. So we've agreed to the terms of someone who's quite regularally funded not only us but also everywhere in the environment of this activity. I ask one other question – why have we angered the German state at this time, when it was necessary to listen to the opinion of the European Commission, Germany will be the one to question the entire EU institution, which decides so, consensually, jointly, agreeing with its opinion, and that we remain short-sleeved, and we were very close? It is said that we have denied Germany participation in many privatisations and that they have lost the opportunity somewhere unfairly to participate in privatisation, and that we have not provided us with sufficient advantage for some others for political or non-performing reasons. We're left with loans and interest anyway. It goes to the soul of this and earlier government. The Meser Technogas was one of the primordial privatisations in 1997 and one of the best privatisations was launched. I can even say that the privatisations that came from that side were the purest in terms of the purity of the conditions agreed upon. Did we respond with the same measure, or can I not insult the male race by system, but according to the men's conversation system in the pub – give us only the money, we will do it easily, and then in the system of realising the problem as much as you want? You can't talk to Germany like that. I'm really sorry that we got into a situation where we felt uncomfortable talking about pulling one of these credits. I don't have a report here again about how these loans have been spent and what their effectiveness is. I know that in last year, in this current, as the new budget goes, we paid foreign loans to 20 billion dinars, and it was planned in the basic text of the budget only 14 billion. How could this country be wrong about six billion dinars of cost in 2011, and the eurobor didn't grow? What happened? What happened to the information about our journey in the right direction suddenly turning? Is it quite an acceptable excuse that suddenly good neighbourly relations are in the first place and that's where we made the problem? I don't believe it because I have reliable information that Serbia has not honestly done reform processes in terms of - the story of corruption was a story rather than a struggle. Today's story of corruption is stories against political competition and abuse. Today, the story of competitiveness is what I told you about the use of the negotiation process when buying the Aeroengineering Building. This enables all to participate in public procurement procedures. It's similar to privatization. Does anyone know in what procedure the Trajal has become a newly purchased company by Americans where the Ambassador has promised to do anything to be a regional leader? What regional leader? We are when CEFT was brought a little bit to the side to be at that training centre for preparation not because we were not left with the possibility of having our house properly, but because we didn't want to do it ourselves, not us citizens, but the government that led us. Instead of correcting the bad parts of these loans we got from the German bank KfW, and there were, here's one of those contracts I have on me, talking about the costs of the financial plan of this loan, I'm going to repeat for those who forgot, from e.g. 886m euros almost 801m euros went to the cost of project parts where vehicles, transport tickets, accommodation costs, equipment purchases, computers, offices, etc. spent on experts who come to control heat and thermostats and check the automation of boilers, built-in, bulkhead valves for the distribution network, etc. in some 11 substations. The practice started by taking credit from guardians from the World Bank trust fund in 2001, in which out of six million dollars of credit, 4,780,000 went to consulting services, and only the rest of the goods were a practice you didn't want to fight at any time in a way to say – okay, your experts who came here to give instructions and advice worth, but they don't value 80% of the project and to be the supplies of goods you're wondering about. So the effectiveness of the loans that came here had to be the subject of analysis and the effectiveness of these investments. No, you remembered today through the Agency for Business Registers you check where six billion-euro subsidies went and see if the money invested in the regulations has brought any benefits to the citizens of Serbia. Well, something can't be destroyed or spent first, and then we can check how well it's done. Is it gonna be one of us in our own house or in the state he thinks he's doing his own house like this? No, I don't. One of these contributions to anyone who might present themselves here with suspicion, I won't, because names are mentioned, but I can deliver to those who suspect where it is, for example. invested in the territory of the Vojvodina of these funds from KfW Bank for the development of the water industry. The lion's share, 90% went to the expense of experts, to monitor and monitor, and we were left with such costs that we were supposed to pay 26 billion dinars for the head of the loan this year, and in the next year we're going to have to pay for the new budget of 38.8 billion. That's 146% growth. The interest mentioned was 20 billion on foreign loans, and in this year 26 billion dinars. The budget has been increased by 1 billion euros. Many have fallen and we all say the ministry won less. Guys, what's the structure of the loan we're taking, where's it going? What is the structure of these costs that are being paid because telling the story that there is a fiscal advice to make sure that we share a fair burden of cost and life at the expense of future generations is unequivocal, hypocritical, because we don't care at all about living beyond the limits of our opportunities and not just leaving debts that we no longer have to serve because we've allowed a less and less economy to operate, but rather to bring one lender, like Germany, into a situation to turn our backs completely in every sense and that our further regulation of the state in terms of respect of contract, judicial reform, privatisation, translation into good neighbourly relations. It's inadmissible and it's a huge mistake and a burden of this government. Now, instead of doing this credit structure, you arrange for some goods to arrive, that our people are training, so that now they're doing it, the thugs take the system out of privatisation and the same scheme, counselors, advertisers, advertisers, legal, economic and other professions, through the Privatisation Agency, pick up most of the funds, leave a little bit of change in the budget, and instead of saving it when it was, for the days when they'll have less, which every good host does, we've come to the situation that Mr. Cvetkovic tells us -- we're in charge of one billion dollars while we have a credit rating, but we haven't spent that money, he says, we're saving them. What smart man pays the cost of a loan and holds the money without any interest? Or who takes the money where the cost of the loan is less than the cost, that is, the income you receive only when you give money on savings? Is there any higher interest on savings than interest on credit? It doesn't exist, it's the opposite of the laws, the definition of banking business, because the interest on the loan is accounted for on the basis of the entry cost, and that's the other's money you pay some expense on, it's mostly the cost we pay to the savings, so all the costs that the bank has, interest margins, and then the price of the loan is formed. So you've twisted the upside-down and the purpose and the means and the objectives and led us to ask us here why the Public Procurement Act is like this, where you're putting yourself in the process, why you're giving this kid back to those who don't have to, in fact, for what's called mere survival as social protection, like life-threatening layers, social benefits, student standards and everything else, either on the lowest possible branches or at least cover as much as you recognize inflation, not as real, but as much as it's real, but as it's recognised. I believe that since 2002, if not since 2001, then since 2002, this country has been able to have its own development bank and to fund certain strategic projects, such as this, alone, and not to make today the state an ideal debtor and to be the most important thing for us to be in line for the loan. It is a falsely depicted social product, deliberately increased and Mrs Diana Dragutinovic admits only today when she is not a minister, that the methodology deliberately increased revenues, the methodology deliberately reduced expenditures, so that we could borrow. When I told you in this room that big and strong Germany was introducing a debt brake, and there's a way to repay the loans, you didn't want to listen. The crisis wasn't, so she left, so she came back, so it's all somebody else's fault, but it's not this government, who doesn't really want to deal with what's essential -- how is that little money that's coming from the citizens best? All written-off debts of public enterprises, roads, what is reportedly 700 million when we did not participate in the work due to waiting for a session on Kosovo, passed here as a write-off, 700m euros of credit, all of which will be paid by Serbian citizens through the budget, as well as interest on this loan, as well as interest on all credits taken from which we do not have a report, even though the Public Debt Administration was eventually formed, even though the Fiscal Council was formed, even though an countless agencies, an organisation that allegedly needs to deal with the better and more efficient management of what we have from natural resources, to the money available to this country. I am deeply disappointed that in 2011, we are talking about plans for the establishment of a development bank, which continues to be implemented in the fourth phase of the project and that we will have to re-pay the costs for the outstanding funds, and for the first time we saw that we have these costs when the auditor gave us the first report on the audit of the final account. If it hadn't been for that, they might not have known today, because creative reporting and accounting is a very interesting discipline, where everything can be hidden, but I hope it really can't be long. They say – you can paint snow in black, but not all winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64589	It's been used 19 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been given by MP Dragan Stevanovic, and then by Parliament of People Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I'm just going to look back at a few of the findings that some of my predecessors have made, and it's about the SRS and certainly in the context of the agreement, that is, the borrowing we're talking about today. We do not really defend any or any of the MP groups in this assembly and do not dispute the right to lementate over the fate of the victims or soldiers who suffer from the German contingent in the north of KIM, for the SRS is the thing that we are independent of. We think they came uninvited and the sooner they leave with KIM, the less they'll get hurt. But if anyone expects you to because of their injuries and so on. We accept the victims at KIM and welcome these loans to Germany's KFV bank, and we won't do that either. For both the public and your colleagues sitting here, there must be one thing to know. These are loans that Germany is not helping and does not support the Republic of Serbia. Germany sells us all their money that we will have to, of course, in the time ahead, all together to pay back. The problem is the money's been spent so far as it's been spent. Don't you fellow MPs lemble over the fate of Germany. It would be wise to comment on the fate of Serbia, which very quickly, and not at a time when we will have to repay these loans, will not be able to service its obligations, obligations on behalf of foreign credits and foreign responsibilities, which you have charged with your unreasonable and irresponsible economic and fiscal policy to all citizens, both yourself and your children of this country on the back, or on their own. I wish, as the colleagues next door said, that you had a fight with the EU. Not only have you not had an argument with the EU, the government in Serbia has never been more serviced than the EU and where luck is that you are looking for support and perspective in the country behind the Urals, because if there were little intelligence, you would know well, not slow, and that you know that good relations with German cities are right across the country behind the Urals, or the Russian Federation. But you can't mess with friends, you can't mess with those who want to be both political and economic allies and ask them for support for anything you want as a government to do and to do. These agreements that you have presented before us today essentially promote your incompetence, your irresponsibility and the non-domestic business of government and governance of this country. This kind of borrowing seems to be the only thing that manages to keep you on number 126. The only thing left about these destructive financial matters is that you don't have a problem getting together, giving the quorum and possibly voting this out. For you, all the other decisions and laws in this House have become ballast, become a stumbling block. But it's very bad and dangerous for this country and for its future. I don't have much time, unfortunately, and I'm going to start right now with this first law, which concerns taking money from the Commercial Bank, to finance, imagine, no less or less buying the building and its adaptation. This agreement, by its essence, I apologize for the expression, represents one rotten smudge. It's just that we don't know who's messing around, and time is probably going to be as good for Kolubara and Resavica and everything else, show or show, who's in the interest of adopting one of these agreements. The procedure it takes, implements and assumes the procedure it will end up on, if you wait to carry it out because of your mutual relations, is a raving. Now I'm going to say on behalf of the SRS why we have that attitude. The only thing that's not questionable here is, let's not be critical to the end, which is the domestic bank, at least you've shown a little political correctness, and if that's why you've been carrying out public procurement, then you could have said it openly. But that's not the problem. Here, the least important interest, the payment deadlines, even here, I repeat, were the rude ones, or whoever wrote this argument, this law. Imagine the insolence to call the law, that is, the loan you will repay with a grace period in five years you will call long-term. I wish there was a genius, anyone from the government to tell me – and what is the loan we're going to pay back in 2025 - 2026? So what are these loans, where's the first charge coming in 2016, if it's a long-term loan coming back in the next four, five years? At least you couldn't keep it quiet, so you wouldn't be irresponsible to the end and show one complete mockery to both the public and the MPs who would get this read. Now look at this, on February 24th, a decision was made, that is, the conclusion that this building was supplied to state property. Then they waited eight months to empower the Ministry of Justice in November 3rd to comply with the Public Procurement Act, and Article 24 paragraph 1 point 4). Now I will only read to you, and also to the public, what it means when such a procedure is carried out on the basis of what the Government is calling, if, due to exceptional urgency, caused by extraordinary circumstances or unforeseen events, whose performance is in no way dependent on the will of the client, the client could not have acted within the time limits set for open or restrictive proceedings. What did you not control in the judicial reform process, i.e. the establishment of a healthy and adequate judiciary in Belgrade, since it is the First Basic Court in Belgrade? You've affected everything. You are conducting a reform of the judiciary and through your reform of the judiciary, a bunch of judicial buildings in Serbia sound empty because of your network of courts that you have established. In Surdulica, I know, here I live, a beautiful building, reconstructed and arranged, empty, because of your law on a network of courts. You're referring to a member of the Public Procurement Act that says you couldn't control something. You were able to control everything. Is there really no building in Belgrade that is owned by any firm or any company that has been destroyed in the criminal privatisation process conducted in Serbia? You couldn't use one building like that, you were going to buy the Aeroengineering building. You boast about the law of taking property from a criminal offense, which is why you haven't set up such a magnificent facility, so for 10 times less money, it's also out of credit, adapted and reconstructed, it's going to create a courtroom with 110 rooms in which, so on. Belgrade reformed judiciary, be effective? Just to find them a building and they'll be extra efficient. Serbian citizens, some, will finance judges who work, so Serbian citizens will pay non-working judges out of their pockets, so Serbian citizens will pay for the loan, which we will buy the Aeroengineering building, that the first basic court in Belgrade is European. Right? Here is the essence of the story – why "Aeroengineering"? Why are you buying a building owned by a company in bankruptcy and liquidation? Whose debts do you want to settle down here, for 10 times less money? Since the building is state-owned, you could have built a new building. Ask any serious construction firm and they'll tell you. The state could not charge the utility, not to charge the land and be only a whole naked square, construction works and possibly techniques, and that no longer cost, I say, 5m euros. But someone has to take the money and someone has to finance it. Who mentions it? Karici, these ultra-modern European fanatics who are now in the story and mention another name, Janjusevic. That's your baby DS. Whose debts settle? It would be nice for the government to tell us. Who will get five million euros in adaptation and reconstruction? What kind of company is this, and what kind of public procurement process is it going to be, to confide in this business? This is all a hoax, and that's why the SRS won't vote for this, and he has no intention of supporting this thing. We'll see each other in time, and then we'll deny ourselves, either you or you see us. One more thing, and I'll be done real soon. As for the loan from Kfw Bank and regarding the heat in Serbia, gentlemen, two or three weeks ago you adopted the Law on Public-private Partnership. I'm sorry Mr. Dulic isn't here, but do you know how he presented the Law on Public-private Partnership? It's a model to get private capital into municipal activity. You know what, the SRS then suggested that, besides the water and sewerage, the exemption and heat from the framework, on which they would be entrusted to private companies to carry out this work. You didn't accept it through the amendment. We said it was a matter that the state had to deal with. Then it might make sense to say - the state withdraws money for the heat that is in the problem. You bring the Law on Public-private Partnership to secure capital and the recovery of the heat, and then you assign the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to give the heat money. You do not believe in your strategy and concept, because you know that your concept of public-private partnership is doomed to failure, because your political will to do so is not to succeed, so that you can continue to have a monopoly in the public sector, to spend money through public procurement, and that spending money through public procurement you know what it represents in the Republic of Serbia today. As far as the SRS is concerned, it doesn't occur to us to support this. This just shows that the government is completely incompetent, completely irresponsible, that, as the mandate stands out, nothing is more interested and that the problems that anyone will succeed after them, and we hope that it will be national conscious and responsible people, will be truly great and will therefore bear political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64591	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is 12 minutes and 45 seconds. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic. After her, MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64592	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are almost the last days of this year, and in these last days, the government is in charge. That's how the year started, the loan session, and that's how it goes. Two loans for heat and water lines are planned and shown in the budget for this year. Otherwise, when we talk about how much Serbia is in charge, it is evident that the debt is too high. Officially, we're on the verge of duty. We had a chance to see data from the finance ministry a few days ago, which showed that at the end of November, the debt was 44.8% of GDP. These data from the Ministry of Finance do not match the data we had the opportunity to hear from the NBS representatives, who say that already in September has exceeded the law defined a maximum of 45% and that it was 46.7%. The justification is trying to find in a different methodology used by these two institutions, which is not only irresponsible but, if it weren't unfortunate, it would be ridiculous. Whatever data we're looking at, it's clear that the condition isn't good. Instead of being called to account for this condition, we now have an unprecedented absurdity. In addition to these two tasks that I mentioned for a little while and which are planned by the Budget Law, we are also discussing the government's borrowing of 13m euros to buy a building. I stress this -- one building -- and I have a lot of reasons for that. We see in the explanation that the implementation of this law will provide funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This new loan is not planned and this bill should, in the process of even more urgent than the one put on the agenda of this session, be withdrawn from the procedure. There is not a single valid reason to spend 13m euros, plus interest, plus credit costs. On whatever side you turn, you can see a lot of buildings that are empty and that can be bought at a much lower price and bring a purpose for also much less money, or even to build a new one, and to meet again the needs of the judicial authorities, in this case the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. We in the SRS respect the needs of this court. Whether efficiency will be improved when it is tried daily, we will be able to talk after a while. Now we have to let that time pass. However, what is indisputable is that we literally have large and decent buildings at every step that have been empty for years and in which capital letters are written – for sale. At this time when there is no end to the crisis, only a new blow is expected, increasingly strong, the government in Serbia allows itself the luxury of throwing 13 million for one building. The Serbian Radical Party sees dirty work in it. On this occasion, I will provide some information on what prices some Serbian companies have privatised and how they have successfully done business. I'm going to start with the "Hello," which is kind of the closest thing I've ever seen. For three and a half million euros, they were sold... (President: National MPs, I beg you, Article 106) I understand the width of the discussion, but privatization or contact any of the points of the agenda or I ask you both to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. ) Thank you, Madam Chairman, for making comparisons between 13m euros that will be spent on the building with the sale of some other buildings and other state property. So, for three and a half million euros, business buildings and production halls and equipment and rolling stock, patents, licenses and everything else that makes one successful company. If someone hadn't transferred me to talk about that kind of health, in that one, Leskovac, in southern Serbia, I'd say another example closer, the building that wants to buy is located in Belgrade. Here's a closer example, the Smederjev ironworks sold for $21.3m, and again I'm making a comparison with one building that the Serbian government wants to pay eight plus five million euros. Of course, from a budget filled by all citizens, in which long ago there is not enough funding, so the funds are taken out of credit. But what the credit is now taken for is really absurd to take credit for this kind of luxury. The remaining two loans are from the German Development Bank. It is very interesting that these loans are guaranteed by the German government. It is even more interesting that for the water supply and sewerage programme, in addition to the 17.5m-euro loan, we see that the German Development Bank wants to give even 7.5m grants. They repeat what Mr. Zoran Krasic says every day, that cheese is free only in mice. No one will give you anything unless he sees his own interest in it and in any way secures the market for himself. On the other hand, the same Germany, which allegedly wants to improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens through improving water supply, continuously blackmails Serbia in an indirect manner to recognise the self-proclaimed independence of the state of Kosovo. As of yesterday, we had the opportunity to listen to their ambassador openly say that Serbia should agree to the regional representation of the alleged state of Kosovo. For him, regional representation of Kosovo is an easy solution to the problem, and he has a simple idea. Put on a name board that says who all the participants are and the problem is solved. There is a state of Serbia and there is a state of Kosovo. Serbia will never accept that. The same ambassador, Mass, assured us last year that we should explain to our children that the bombing was right. We in the SRS are of the opinion that the gentleman mentioned should be explained that their bombs with poor uranium have led to increased mortality of our infants and increased malignancies. In fact, why would anyone explain it to him, like everyone else knows it, but it suits him better this way. What is the use of their soldiers as part of the international forces that Angela Merkel came to the post at KIM? We in the National Assembly had a public hearing organised by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and all the speakers in their discussion presented the data that the biggest loss, the biggest Serb persecution from Kosovo took place at the time after the peace forces arrived. Finally, when we look at all these proposals that we are discussing today, it is much simpler to make one right move, give up throwing 13m euros for one building, provide that space at a normal price, save millions of alleged aids and Serbian citizens will be spared the ballast debt, anyway the debt is too large and the crisis is increasingly intense, unemployment is growing and the drop of living standards is unsustainable, and no one is invited to account. The government has an obligation to propose measures and repay debt to defined frameworks. Instead of doing anything about it, we have a 13m-euro debt ahead of us or just over a billion and 300 million dinars per building. This year, the budget has a deficit of 142.7 billion dinars, and 125 billion are scheduled for next year, although the prime minister and finance minister, I speak openly, that after the election, there will be a need to rebalance and some new government will do so. We didn't expect this government to design a budget differently for the year in which the elections will be held, to convince citizens that someone deserves their trust, somewhere the roads will be paved, somewhere to fix the water supply and sewerage, somewhere to improve the state of the heat. All this falls under the burden of all Serbian citizens and representatives of the government will overwrite their merits and boast that they have done well. One who does good doesn't create this much responsibility and doesn't waste millions on one building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64593	Nine minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's MP Dusan Maric has the word, followed by the MP Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64594	Ladies and gentlemen, with these three laws, the Republic of Serbia is additionally in debt for 76m and 83m euros, respectively. We from the SRS will vote against the adoption of this set of laws because we believe that the Republic of Serbia should no longer be in debt. Of the 100 euros that the Republic of Serbia is producing and incomeing today, 45 euros is being spent on debt. Otherwise, this is the 1271th day of work of this assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In those 1271 days, the ruling majority passed a total of 68 laws on the debts of the Republic of Serbia with fewer loans and loans. When you pass these three laws, and there is no doubt that you will vote them, on a new debt of 83m euros, you have charged the state's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with exactly 6,024,493,000 euros for the 1271 day of office. When these figures are added interest and loan service costs, it is a total of 6,626,942,000 euros. What does that mean? This means practically that the ruling majority MPs tasked the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with exactly 5,213.396 euros each day by raising their hands. Every day 5,213.396 euros and so on 1271 days. What does this practically mean if this task is divided into citizens of the Republic of Serbia? According to the latest census, the Republic of Serbia has seven. 120,666 inhabitants. This means that each of them, including the only children born, have been charged with 930 euros during this term. What is particularly absurd is that with 930 euros you owe more than a million citizens of Serbia who do not have permanent incomes, who are unemployed. With 930 euros, you owe more than 700,000 people who today do not have 1.5 euros to buy basic life supplies, live below the poverty line, and with 930 euros you owe 70,000 people who feed on people's kitchens. There's one question. Today we need to adopt the laws on debt, today we are discussing the laws we are in charge of an additional 83m euros. The main question is what benefits the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially these millions of unemployed, and especially these 700 thousand hungry, who should probably be the priority of each and these authorities. I call on the ruling coalition MPs to ask themselves one question -- how is it possible for the Republic of Serbia to be in charge of 6,626,942 euros for 3.5 years without feeling the standard of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that there is no improvement in life? On the contrary, we have a situation where the number of unemployed is constantly higher and the number of hungry is constantly higher. The question arises – where did all these billions go? It's six billion and 626m euros. If you vote, and there is no doubt that you will vote these laws, it practically means that you are during your term of office 2. 497,187 households in Serbia owed each 2,653 euros. Here's what responsibilities look like per year. This is all for reasons to convince the ruling majority not to vote for the adoption of these laws. In 2008, a total of 15 laws totalled 946,330,000 euros. The year 2009 - 22 laws, total debt 2,679,380,000 euros. Third year, 16 laws on credit and loans, total debt of 1.630,266,000 euros. This year, if you vote and vote these three laws, a total of 15 debts totalling 1,370,966,300 euros. A total of 6,626,942,000 euros. You know, if we divide this amount of 6,624,000 thousand into MPs of the ruling coalition who voted for the adoption of these laws, 127 MPs, then we get one amazing piece of information. I want this information to convince the MPs not to vote in favour of this law. We are given the information that each member of the ruling coalition has owed the average Republika Srpska over the past three and a half years with 52,180,645 euros. We get even more interesting information if we split the task by 68 votes. Do you know what information we're getting? With every vote in this assembly on the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, the state is in charge of 97,455.029 euros. The last argument to convince at least some ruling majority MP not to go into the hall is the next one. These 68 laws were passed with 8.735 votes for the ruling coalition's MPs. When the total debt of 6,624,000 is divided by the number of votes for, it turns out that each member of the ruling coalition is individually, each time he raises his hand for the duty of the Republic of Serbia, he tasked the state with only one vote with 761,717 euros. Serbian citizens often have the opportunity to hear the term – voting day in the debates. Listen to what voting days the Republic of Serbia is in charge of... (President: People's MP, please at least a little bit on the agenda, and on voting days, I say you don't know what they look like because not a single MP attended the same. Please, on the subject of the agenda, Article 106. No matter what the numbers are drawn, everything is in line with the subject, except for what you've just started, because the voting day you don't know what it looks like. ) Because of the ruling coalition's MPs, I would like to list just a few examples in which the Republic of Serbia is in charge in this same way, for much greater amounts, hoping that this will affect their conscience and that those in the voting day will not vote that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are needlessly in charge of the new 83m euros. It says – improvement of services at local level – 32m euros. Now, look at this. (President: National MP, I reminded you of the topic of the agenda. So I listen very carefully to you, all the creative contribution of multiplication and division, but you can't talk about laws exactly in the same context that were long ago adopted. So please on the subject of the agenda, you have four points, so on one or all four. Here you go. ) Well, the third point is the 25m-euro debt to improve water supply in the Republic of Serbia. I am using this last minute of my discussion to express a protest on why among the investments, which will be financed by these 25m euros, is not the Great Plan's Water Factory. Who knows how many times I've warned here about the fact... (President: People's Parliament, I asked you about the agenda. So, the topic of the agenda, on yours and perhaps unfortunately for me, is not the Water Factory in the Great Plan. Then I ask you not to disrespect the National Assembly by talking for 10 minutes about not being in debt, counting innumerably, and then asking us to be in charge of some special water factory. Please, without insulting the reputation of the National Assembly, bring your discussion to an end on the agenda points. ) I apologize, the title of the law is – the Law on borrowing for the rehabilitation of all water supply systems. During the opening presentation, Mr. Minister said, that is, he listed the municipalities and listed the projects for which these funds will be used, and I only took this opportunity to express the protest among these projects and among these municipalities is not the Great Plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64595	For the third time, I remind you that you are talking about the topic of the agenda, because it is precisely because it is listed what it is used for, or what the funds are used for, are approved, it is the topic of the agenda, not what they are approved for, or for what they are not all approved for. Do you want to continue? No, I don't. 10 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. I ask the MPs that, using their creative light-to-air review on how to discuss the item of the agenda, they do not even think that they will be allowed to demean the reputation of the National Assembly, the jurisdiction, the violation of jurisdiction, or that the subject is used to abuse a member of 106 who obliges us all to talk about the agenda and other members who bind us in the way we treat our work and others in the hall. The People's Messenger Momcilo Duvnjak has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to say something about the bill to confirm the loan agreement for the rehabilitation of the district heating, water supply and sewerage system. When you see the proposal for this loan, you can see right away that this is a bad loan. When we read the terms of the loan, it is immediately seen that the German state is asking that, if we get this loan, imports of equipment from Germany and that there is supervision from Germany, the project from Germany and they determine the contractors, it is certain that they will not determine the contractors from Serbia, but will determine the contractors from Germany or from EU countries. This shows that our companies dealing with the production of this equipment, that this country and this government are destroying our companies, this is certain that Serbian citizens know that they are preparing to privatise these public enterprises, heat and plumbing throughout Serbia. I ask the first question to those who gave this loan proposal – if we get this 45m-euro remote heating loan and forward it to Serbia under the same conditions as Serbia -- 2.5% on the annual interest level, will the heat in Serbia have better heating? Citizens of cheaper heating? Are we gonna have better equipment and better charge? We won't be safe. You gentlemen need to know that the problem with our heat is not equipment, it's nothing, the problem is personnel and employment. Now, run a heat-to-heat analysis in Serbia, see how much heat-to-heat debt is, and how much heat they owe. I'll tell you the truth, and we've been doing it, that they have more heat claims than debt. Here's an example in Krusevec, public enterprises, institutions, owes city heat 254 million dinars. The heat is down to 110 million dinars. What does this mean? If half this debt was charged, the heat wouldn't go down. You know, the city administration only owes 18 million dinars. What does this mean? There's no heat...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64597	People's MP, that means you're not talking about the subject of the agenda. I would like to remind you of the subject of the agenda, and I remind you that you are obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda. I listen carefully to every MP and there are things that can be illustrated by examples of what is a discussion, and there is a clear and clear violation of article 106, which is your case right now. So we're asking you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64598	I noticed in this loan law with the German Investment Bank that if the equipment is taken from Germany, that customs duties will be released and VAT will not be charged. Here, I am openly telling you that we have companies in Serbia that have this equipment and that this equipment will be 15-20% cheaper and with these benefits from the EU or Germany, which imports this equipment. We also have companies here that produce and pre-insulated pipes, Zrenjanin and Aleksinac, North Subotic pumps, heat meterers, "Electronics" from Nis. I say again, our companies dealing with this production, this government wants to destroy these companies, not to build that equipment anymore, but to import these equipment from EU countries. We had an example in the town of Krusevec, where they told us about the expansion of the water factory that we should borrow, the same conditions are here – 6m euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64599	People's MP, but we're not talking about a loan that someone once asked for or offered Kruševec, but the topic of the agenda is what the topic of the agenda is. The second time I remind you, the next time you force me to remind you, I will be forced to, on the basis of a member who says clearly in his position that the chairman is obliged to give notice to a MP who does not want to speak on the subject of the agenda, do so. Now is the last time I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64600	It says here that you're taking a loan under these conditions, we don't know what the amount of water supply and sewer credit is, is it 25m euros or 17m euros, and you have to say, wherever we have these loans in local self-government, that they're soft loans. Every loan is bad, so you know. What does soft credit mean to you? Soft when you take it, hard when you come back, right? This is a disgrace and a disgrace to what you propose to the citizens of Serbia. First, you double-crossed them with the heat price. Do you know what you're doing with this gas? The first price was 10%...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64601	National MP, what part of my reminder that you deliberately violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do I not speak clearly enough? Are you going to talk about the subject of the agenda or should I begin by giving a warning measure? It's up to you. You have time at your disposal, but without disrespecting the MPs. Please sign in so you can continue, since you do not want to listen, as you did not want to read the rules of the Rules of Procedure that you would like to follow. You are required to listen to the chairman when he reminds you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that we are all obliged to respect. I've warned you three times that you can't just take the right to not talk about the agenda. So either the agenda or I'll give you the warning measures without further warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64602	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in law and in terms of obtaining credit with the German Investment Bank for Water Supply and sewerage, one sentence says experts from Germany will participate. This mentions my municipality of Triestenik, which will receive these funds for the expansion of the water factory. Finally, I will say that the national investment plan has invested in the municipality of Trstenik, for the expansion of the water factory, 2.5m euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64603	People's messenger, I give you your first warning. People's MP, you're required to listen when the chairman speaks to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64604	... But if the MPs knew that 2.5 million euros had failed, the rings for the expansion of the water factory...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64605	People's messenger, I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64606	... And there's nothing from the water, 2.5 million euros are gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64607	People's MP, if you continue to violate the rules of the Rules of Procedure, I will take your word and exclude you from the session. I conclude that, because of the violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Momcil Duvnjak, according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, was given the first and second notice. Thank you. The time used is seven minutes. I don't understand what makes you think that you can throw and that you can do whatever you want at a certain point, without any self-control, during a session of the National Assembly. By seeing the stenogram, you will see that I have tried everything any chairman can to explain to the MP that he cannot take for himself the rights that he has denied to others. National MP Vitomir Plužarevic believes he can throw and act beyond the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. People's MP, do you want to take the words and disfellowshipped from the session? These are the following measures of caution, criminal measures for a MP who thinks he can talk about whatever he wants at the session. You're throwing the People's Messenger out of place. Now, for the last time, I'm warning you, after that, I'm going to tell you a measure of taking words from you at a session that's under way. See how the MPs well advise you to start by self - control together to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Vladan Jeremic and the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this latest borrowing of Serbia for 83m euros is merely a continuation of an infamous story and a confirmation of the Serbian Radical Party's stance that the general government of the Republic of Serbia has obviously unsettled problems in the conduct of economic policy. So far, the argument has been made, therefore, to the essence of the issue of the European Investment Bank's loan, the German Development Bank. Of course, I'd be underprivileged if I said that it's not necessary to regulate such important areas as water supply, heating, sewerage, that's something that's certainly necessary for normal functioning in the 21st century. But what I would like to point out to this opportunity is, therefore, a question that is inevitably being imposed, is the only solution to all these accumulated problems just taking credit and especially what I think it is and how the public is interested is from whom and under what conditions we as a state of Serbia, so we take loans. So, indeed, one unbearable ease of borrowing is extremely unacceptable, the state clearly owes too much to international financial organisations, banks and other countries, and it is particularly a problem that this task, and also this today that we are talking about and in principle in that people's society, takes everything that life provides for you, the problem is that obviously all that we've been doing in the past will have to return many generations after us. I'm not going to deal with much of the data that points to the fact that the Serbian government has been solving problems. Of course, it is now clear as a day that the only source, i.e. the only alternative to all these problems, has been seen again by the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. The problem is that, let's say, the money that was directed at certain infrastructure projects, like the ones we're talking about today, obviously wasn't directed where it really should have been, because if all that money from loans were based on various contracts, the agreement ended where it really was meant to be, we could have much better living conditions in Serbia today. For example, here's the information that we could have built without any major problems or two bridges, or even 250 kilometers of highways. Instead, it is obvious that the money received on the basis of loans, loans and the rest ended mainly in some ongoing consumption, and we in Serbia today certainly, or the government cannot be commended for the fact that in the past period it managed to build everything about 60km of highways, etc. The problem, of course, that follows this policy, the borrowing policy, is certainly investments that are also stagnating from year to year, so of some of the expected three billion as planned this year, apparently the government will succeed, given that by the end of the year there are only about ten days left, to provide just a little more than a quarter. Of course, the Serbian Radical Party believes that instead of the essential reforms that needed to be dealt with by the government, that actually problems are trying to avoid exactly borrowing, and as long as that is the case, there will be no motive for neither substantial reforms nor savings. It is simply incomprehensible, economically there is no logic that, at the rate of growth that we have in the country from just one to two percent, we are in debt, and that is, after the decline of inflation, at about 6.7% or 8%. This is simply not sustainable, and in this way only additional debt is charged to a weaker economy. I will also remind the public that Serbia as a state is under pressure from one of these international financial institutions, on which it is apparently based its economic policy and has passed some kind of fiscal responsibility law, under which this public debt should not exceed 45% of GDP. However, the question arises as to how much this is too much of a burden, or whether the service of that obligation will take away the money that is overly necessary for investment. Furthermore, of course we could solve problems not in this way, so not by borrowing, but by really the growth of the economy, and everything else. Of course, a well-organised economy is needed, that local sources are needed, and primarily for export production because it brings foreign exchanges because all of this is some kind of science fiction for us, we actually come up with this devastating fact, which is that Serbia is really a country in charge of economic policy, and in particular there is a problem with all these potential investors, which, of course, are most important to know whether the state is able to repay the loans it takes. Of course, unless it's a state that can go bankrupt, and then they're also bankrupting banks as government creditors, and this is one of the worst possible scenarios. I'm afraid unfortunately Serbia is moving towards him in a hurry. Therefore, it was not worth any of the warnings that we gave on behalf of the SRS when it came to the state of the outside partner, on the obligations on the basis of regular interest, the principal, etc. There were even some insurmountable answers to withdraw less than possible money. Of course, if this is to comfort the objective of international financial institutions where Serbia was mostly in debt, of course it is never to repay only the principal but to rightly own a debtor who regularly pays interest because in this way, after that economic dependence on the one who gives money, economic dependence turns both into political and then the trustee and can dictate to the debtor what and how to do. So from there, as we have heard from counterpart Mirovic, we see that especially in some members of the proposed agreement, especially when it comes to the German Development Bank, it is indicated that practically we as a state will have absolutely no impact on everything that follows the implementation of such an agreement. The problem certainly is that most of the money spent mainly on market interventions, spending through the budget is a good part in the pockets of importers, of course debt service is passed on to future generations, and therefore in Serbia today is an evil friend. I was frantic when I found information that in the past ten years in Serbia, credit, donation, investment, privatisation process, even about 55 billion euros have entered the diaspora sign. It was not easy to calculate that for this money several corridors of 10, 200,000 kindergartens, as many schools, could be completely modernised by a railway network or built without a small half a million apartments of an average size of 60 square meters. Then, even in spite of the fact that we have had so many economic experts in all the governments of Serbia, in addition to this constant tutorship of the World Bank, the European Bank, the IMF and others, we obviously as a state and society have touched the bottom, with all these problems that exist, we also suffer annual damages from those almost 300m euros due to reduced customs revenues, which is precisely the result of such a relationship that the regime has with the EU and the harmful application of that Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So it's very difficult with the destroyed economy, limited agriculture, financial organisations such as the IMF and Western banks, that Serbia has some other solution than the one imposed, so borrowing as one time without an alternative. The government's direct debt by taking foreign exchange credits as is now the case, or perhaps by broadcasting dinar securities of value, is practically whatever because Serbia as a whole is spending a lot more than it earns and it has become clear that this lack of money for all projects can come, so either from creditors or through a domestic banking sector that is true to the will and does not exist anymore. What's the state's motive in all this? Well, it's pretty clear, and it's especially important in this next period, so to the elections, to prevent and stop a financial collapse, that is, to preserve social peace at all costs, and then to continue with some further or new story with this kind of called economic policy. To sum up, if all that has been done in the past, if we add what we're talking about today, we've already heard that Serbia is in charge of something over six billion euros in these nearly three years, that the structure is such that bonds, domestic and foreign, are 3.7 billion, while credit debts are 2.3 billion euros. We also heard how much power was in charge of us this year, so by the end of the year, there are only a dozen days left, so I do not expect that there will be any more of the proposals that we are talking about today. The debt trend is clearly continuing until the end of the term of office. In 2008, they said the crisis would bypass us, so they would benefit us because investors would rush into Serbia. Then it was said that the recovery began in 2011. Now it's clear that next year will be even worse than this one. In the end, as long as there is such authority, let the last man who comes out turn off the light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64609	It was used 11 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Marko Milenkovic, and he is the last registered speaker. The time available to the parliamentary group is 16 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64610	"Invented bankruptcy is one of the favorite ways of taking property. The real organizers of this outrageous robbery are far more important, and they are politicians and their tycoon friends. On March 25th 2010, the bankruptcy judge of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade, Gordana Arangelovic, opened bankruptcy over Aeroengineering d.o.o. And because of the alleged debt of 928,754, 87 dinars. The entire assets of this company, worth millions of euros, are literally pushed into the hands and pockets of tycoons connected to DS and G17 plus. "The newspaper text from the laundromat for a year where it announces what will happen. Let's take it in a row. Also in the news text: "So on September 28, 2010, there will be an Aeroengineering building in New Belgrade, size 9.5 thousand squares with an initial price of around 12m euros and a 510m-square villa in Kronska 76 in Belgrade at a starting price of just over a million euros. It is interesting that, except for Air Engineering workers, who are looking for unpaid earnings for about three years of work, sales money, according to all of them, will receive Karici himself, who are still the owners of 48.24% of this company. Albi capital and 8.52% state. The Serbian government buys and adapts the Aeroengineering Building in New Belgrade, which will accommodate the full litigation department of the First Basic Court, so that in the future, every judge will have his own courtroom and will be able to judge every day of work until the will. State Secretary of the Justice Ministry Slobodan Homen said TUNJUG that the building will be paid eightm euros, or about 800 euros per square cent. The rest of the loan will be invested in building adaptation, etc., 110 new courts. "It's an announcement. So the Aeroengineering Building is worth more than the Traylov tire-generating plant. The Aeroengineering Building is about half of Sartide, a little over half of Sartide. To remember, it's been voted here several times and bankruptcy laws have been passed. Who's doing the bankruptcy of Aeroengineering? Privatisation agency. Who's on behalf of that agency? Commissioner Dragan Perkovic. Why is the company going bankrupt? Because she's over-indebted. Creditors should settle their claims, but in bankruptcy, as a rule, this is done in proportion, not in full. If bankruptcy is open because of millions of dinars, how can 13m euros now appear? Were there any conditions for bankruptcy? We have received a proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Commercial Bank. So who built this Commercial Bank? Where's that famous director? Is he some friend of Bogoljub Karic? We're in charge of buying the building and doing the necessary work. Which are the necessary works, that'll tell us "Elcoms." For two million dinars, they need to make documentation. However, equipment and furniture were sold here. It's all sold. Let's see what the Privatisation Agency says. They tried last year to sell real estate and movable assets through a method of public collecting written offers. The estimated value is two and a half billion dinars, and this year, since that didn't work, then the sale is done by direct contract. The minimum price is 800 million dinars. Wait, who determined what it was worth? There's BK TV opening the other day. And Tihomir Simic progressed as the fit of this Cankov over there. What's this all about? Does this parentheses really need justice? How come eight million euros and now 13 million? What is this five million-euro adaptation? Who makes their claims out of this amount? You know, strange things happen. This law must not be passed. Why would the state be in charge of this? There are so many empty buildings that sound empty, but no, someone's got their eye on this, and two years on that building it says "for halls" and there's tourists and no one to "salt," no one to call. It was "for rent" too. Do you think the state is for rent? Now we have two contracts with our dear German friends. I just can't figure out why you're criticizing the German state here. They're doing their job nicely. We'll give you money to fix the district heating, the plumbing and the sewers, but under our terms. They negotiate very well. They say – for our money we will say our parts, our equipment, our brain, our commission, and you, Serbs, as subcontractors, will be slave labor. It's their interest. So it's not a problem with them, it's a problem with whoever concluded the deal. Who made the deal with them? The one with the two bags, remember, come on, come on to Europe, Bozidar Djelic. He's the problem. It is not Mladjan Dinkic's fault that he said 1,000 euros in free action, it is those who believed. It's his job to cheat, it's your job to believe or not to believe. Under these conditions, these German loans are exploitable for the Republic of Serbia. Our vital economic interests forbid a contract like this to be signed. The need to breathe, the need to drink water, the need to be normal in Serbia, prohibits everyone in the Republic of Serbia from making such an agreement with KFV etc. So it's not the Germans, they're doing it nice. It's the one who's agreeing to this. Why does someone agree to this? Because there's a fifth column in power. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64611	Nine minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64612	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, today's draft legislation on the additional borrowing of our country of 83m euros, will do no good to neither the state nor the citizens, as so far these funds will be spent without public insight, unreasonablely, without control, and therefore without positive effects. Remember, citizens of Serbia, by adopting these laws, you will be longer by 83m euros, and yet you will be out of work, without standards and money for basic living needs, after 11 years of the rule of democracy in Serbia. While the average citizen cannot imagine 100 euros in his pocket, the government of Boris Tadic is leading Serbia into a debt crisis that will be difficult to get out of. The proposal for a 13m-euro borrowing law with the Commercial Bank for the purchase and adaptation of the Aeroengineering Building is absolutely unreasonable, wasteful, and thus excessive. If we take into account the market-real very low cost of bankruptcy companies, such as Aeroengineering, which is also the method of direct contract, sales, the privatisation agency for as much as eight million euros. Remember well, the government agency is selling to the government a building like this, abandoned, old, without conditions for the needs of the court for eight million euros, while another five million euros will magically disappear in the reconstruction of the building for the purposes of the First Basic Court, as State Secretary Homen, who is up to his shoulder involved in Luke Belgrade's affair, will only when every judge has his own courtroom have conditions to work. So, Serbian citizens, to this day, there was no justice just because judges of the First Basic Court in Belgrade did not have an adequate 13m-euro building, and as of today, you can only imagine what justice will befall you in a reformed judiciary with the fabulously expensive First Court chambers in Belgrade, which the government buys from itself for eightm euros, plus fivem euros for adaptation, instead of investing directly in the production or construction of maternity, hospitals, schools and kindergartens. In order for the tragedy to be even bigger, in the reasons for the entry into force of this law you are calling for the urgency and necessity of taking this loan, because as you say, it is possible to unilaterally terminate the contract by Aeroengineering in bankruptcy, and everyone knows that you are absolutely controlling the Agency for privatisation and bankruptcy managers and all levels and mechanisms of government, so you're supposed to be afraid of breaking the contract, except that no one trusts you. In addition, it is unimaginable to put on the agenda the next two loan agreements, the first of which is 45m euros to rehabilitate the central heating system in the fourth phase, and you do not specify what was done in the previous three phases and the second of 25m euros for a medium-sized water supply and sewerage programme in the municipalities in the second phase, without reporting what was in the first phase. Furthermore, the bill makes it unclear to split a 45m-euro loan to heat-generating companies and to grant the municipalities and distribute a 25m-euro loan. The Serbian Radical Party will vote for further borrowing of its people who do not know where the funds will go, and even less how they will be used. I understand your motive for new duties, the government's register is empty, and you need the money. If we look at the state's financial situation, we can freely say that we are the financial Titanic in which it leaks everywhere, while Boris Tadic's orchestra plays the stranglers, or the citizens of Serbia, a beautiful song about the EU. The cabinet of Mirko Cvetkovic is likely to enter history as the government most indebted to Serbian citizens, if only Serbia's large debts are collected in the government's mandate, plus today's 83m euros, for 3.5 years you borrowed six billion euros. Borrowing in principle – take everything life provides while you are in power, is absolutely immoral, because your debts will have to pay back the next generations, only in the coming year for interest will it take a billion euros. Serbia, citizens of Serbia, wake up. It's time to see who's leading Serbia and where it's taking her. These government loan agreements are just another proof that serious people must come to the head of the state, that the SRS, which can only provide citizens of Serbia with a dignified life, is not for the benefit of individuals and state officials of America, Germany, the EU and their banks, but for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64613	Six minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. This exhausted the list of MPs reported for debate in the principle of a single review of the proposals for the laws referred to in points 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the agenda. I ask whether before concluding a joint principled single search, whether they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude a joint principle and uniform search on: a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia by the Commercial Bank A.D. for the purposes of buying the Aeroengineering Building and carrying out the necessary works on the facility for the purposes of housing of the First Basic Court in Belgrade; a proposal for a law to confirm the loan agreement and the programme for rehabilitation of the remote heating system in Serbia - a phase IV amounting to 45,000 euros between KfW Frankfurt at the Main Republic of Serbia; a proposal for a law confirming the loan and financing agreement between KfW Frankfurt on May and the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 25,000,000 euros for a water supply programme and sewerage in Serbia's medium size municipalities - phase 2 - and a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on the amendments and additions of the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank on the establishment and the activities of the regional office of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia. We're moving on to the next joint single search. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, for a joint single search on the agenda points from 14th to 18th, next to the representatives of the motionary Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy and Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Energy, called for the sittings to attend and Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Dragan Jovanovic, Assistant Minister for Infrastructure and Energy, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary for the Ministry of Energy and Radoje Savicevic, Head of the Group for International Agreements in Social Security at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principled single search on the proposals for acts under items 14 to 18 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and is distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, belong one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group of the SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak, each and every five minutes. I also ask the parliamentary groups if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, and with a number of MPs. The parliamentary provision is that the application for a word is received until the opening of the search, regardless of whether the principle, common principle, joint single search, as in this case when it comes to the points of the agenda from 13) to 19. No one's been authorized so far. Do the parliamentary groups have an authorised representative for this parliamentary group? National MP Aleksandar Martinovic is deputy president of the parliamentary group, and the Rules of Procedure does not provide that he specifically informs the chairman that, since he has the right, he is to appoint any of the MPs and to report for the word whenever the Rules of Procedure makes it possible. So there are no others. Thank you. According to Articles 170 and 157, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the Conditions of Travel of Citizens of the Two Countries; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement on Co-operation in the fight against Organized Crime, International Trade in Drugs and International Terrorism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bulgaria on Social Security and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Uniform Technical Regulations for Vehicles with Points, Equipment and Parts, which may be incorporated and/or used on Vehicles with Points and Conditions for Reciprocesssion of Approval of Approvals granted pursuant to these Regulations. I ask the service of the National Assembly to inform Minister Rasim Ljajic, whom I welcome and my associates. I'm asking Minister Rasim Ljajic. add a postcard to the Minister so he can address the National Assembly. Please, no direct communication. Minister, according to the Rules of Procedure, you now have the right to receive your word. Do you want it now? Yeah. If you want, just sign in. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has so far signed 26 social security agreements, mostly with EU countries, which is particularly important because they live, reside and work for a large number of our citizens. This is one of the type agreements that we sign with the Republic of Bulgaria, which regulates the exercise of the rights of PIO, health insurance, insurance for unemployment cases, as well as for accidents in work and occupational diseases and child benefits. This agreement facilitates the treatment of one and the other citizens in the areas, in particular health and social insurance, such as the direct payment of the benefits obtained, to a user who has obtained the right to give in his place of residence. It also allows the collection of the period of insurance to carry out both Contracting States in order to exercise pension rights and the cash compensation for unemployment. Then, the use of healthcare for persons who have residence or residence on the territory of another Contracting State, which is significant for tourists, pensioners and detached workers. Also, once again the principle of insurance is confirmed. In fact, it is possible for the burden of social security to be borne by that country whose insurance policy is at stake. The entry into force of this Agreement ceases to be valid, an agreement concluded with the Republic of Bulgaria as early as 1957. I said this is the 27th agreement that goes into effect. In the coming months, we expect to conclude an agreement with Canada, Slovakia, as well as a new agreement with Austria. Also, we have launched an initiative to conclude and conclude this agreement with Australia, New Zealand and the United States, where a large number of our citizens also live. I expect that the ratification of this agreement will allow our citizens and our citizens to exercise health and social protection rights in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64615	Do the committees in charge want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, the SRS believes that here with us there should be another Minister, Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, because most of these agreements that are on the agenda today in the jurisdiction of his ministry and Mr Ivica Dacic has signed an agreement that is mildly scandalous, completely unreasonable from the legal and political aspect for which Mr Ljajic, as a representative of the Government, did not find it appropriate to say a single word. It is likely that Mr Ljajic is ashamed that the proposal for an agreement today is on the agenda at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so he probably avoided even talking about it. What's this about? The SRS strongly protestes and considers it scandalous, finds it offensive, that today, among other things, the draft law and confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation in the fight against organised crime, international illegal drug trafficking and international terrorism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania. Mr. Minister, we expected you to explain to us how is it possible that you signed an agreement in this area with a country that is everything, just not an example of a state fighting organised crime, international terrorism, human trafficking and drug trafficking? Albania is everything, it's just not that. The agreement itself states that the agreement is to be signed, among other things, on the basis of UN General Assembly Resolution 45/123 since 14 December 1990. I want to remind you, Mr. Minister, and I think you know very well that in 1990, Albania has just come out of one of the darkest periods of its history, under the authority of communist dictator Enver Hodge, and after that, Albania has just been the site of international crime of all kinds, above all, drug trafficking, human trafficking and international terrorism. I would like to remind you, Mr. Minister, that your government has signed an agreement with a state in which weapons were freely sold on the streets, with a state where weapons were brought out of military and police warehouses, with a state that is yet to be introduced into the order of civilised states. I don't think there's any need to remind the citizens of Serbia, but I want to remind you, Mr. Minister, of what other state this is. Representatives of the Serbian government, like the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic himself, seem to have forgotten about a man named Dick Martin, who has offered many relevant evidence that Hashim Thaci is the main trader of the human organs in KIM, and that as a country that has worked closely with Hashim Thaci in that trade, illegal trade, this monstrous, inhuman trade in human organs, the Republic of Albania. This famous yellow house, a notorious yellow house in which Serbs and other citizens living on KIM, first of all, Roma, then those Albanians who did not support the terrorism of Hashim Thaci, so human organs were taken out in the yellow house and the yellow house is located on the territory, that is, in the northern part of the Republic of Albania. And never in the past few months, when the Republic of Serbia has been exposed to the most severe pressures from individual EU countries, notably Germany, then the United States, to recognise the independence of the KIM, the president of the Republic, then his head of the negotiating team Borko Stefanovic, the KIM minister did not say a single word about negotiating with Pristina, as they are euphemistically called, in fact leading to representatives of the government run by Hashim Thaci, a man who traded human organs, a man who raped, raped, kidnapped, who took out vital organs and sold them on the black market. That man's name is Hashim Thaci. He's some kind of self-called Prime Minister, so-called. The Republic of Kosovo and you with such people, Mr. Minister, are still in charge of negotiations, and you are still being warned by your EU friends that you need to improve dialogue with Pristina. When Pristina, ladies and gentlemen are said to be MPs, and respected citizens of Serbia, the EU actually thinks of its friend and ally, Hashim Thaci. You with them, Mr. Minister, are having talks, which is, of course, an absolute violation of the dignity of the state of Serbia, which is an absolute step towards the Constitution of Serbia, Resolution 1244 and, of course, the full gait of the victims of Hashim Thaci. The Serbian Radical Party is seeking, above all, an emergency session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss this so-called. negotiations with Pristina. We're looking for a suspension of all the agreements we've reached with so-called. With Pristina, or Hashim Thaci, we are asking that the EU be no longer a mediator in these talks, but that the talks be transferred where they belong, which is the UN. Of course, there is no saying that any Serbian radical would speak to representatives of the government led by the villain and criminal Hashim Thaci. And a close associate of Hashim Thaci, in everything that's been going on in KIM since 1996, when, according to American data, it's officially formed so-called. The Kosovo Liberation Army, to date, is also the Republic of Albania, a country with which Mr. Ivica Dacic, who now cries and complains that the EU is allegedly asking us to recognise KIM independence, signed an agreement on the fight against organised crime, on a country that has done everything to arm Cypriot terrorists on KIM. He signs the agreement on fighting organised crime, terrorism, human trafficking, with a country that has been doing all this, which is the main culprit, among other things, in addition to the United States, Great Britain, France and Germany, for all the horrors that have happened in KIM since 1996 and to this day, and the victims of these horrors were primarily Serbs, but they were also Roma, Turks and all those Albanians who did not support the terrorism of Hashim Thaci. It is amazing that you are preparing to ratify such an agreement in conditions where the Republic of Albania has not only recognised the independence of KIM, but represents the political, media, financial sponsor of Hashim Thaci. It's just amazing. I don't know if there's one country in the world that would do something like this. Imagine if someone remembered to sign an agreement with Adolf Hitler on time to oppose the formation of concentration camps, the use of gas chambers, with a man who did all this. That's what you're promoting in Serbia today. You signed an agreement with one of these states. What is amazing, Mr. Minister, and what is also your government's representatives will not say publicly, tell us finally, without twisting – what does the EU ask of us when it comes to KIM? By December 9th, you could talk and deceive Serbian citizens that KIM, or the EU, is two separate tracks and two separate issues. After December 9th, it is clear that they are not and that it is a key condition for Serbia to gain EU membership candidate status, to recognise the independence of KIM. Your government, Mr. Ljajic, is criminalizing Serbs in the north of KIM. You are the ones who claim that the conflict with KFOR has actually caused Serbs, and that KFOR has only defended itself and thus give legitimacy to the views of Angela Merkel, who is actually looking for a reason why Serbia did not get candidate status, so he says -- these evil and corrupt Serbs, among other things, attacked German soldiers. Germany opposes Serbia getting candidate status as a result. It's not the original idea, Angela Markel. The idea came, at the beginning of World War II, another German, German representative and Zagreb, Zikvid Kasha, who claimed that the conflicts on NDH territory were caused by Chetniks, and then, in his words, the Ustasha clashes were radical. Then the Germans justified crimes against the Serbs, as they do today. What did a permanent representative of Russia tell you in the U.N., Vitali Curkin? That KFOR is responsible for incidents in the north of KIM, that KFOR is provoking conflicts with Serbs. In the end, it is scandalous that no one from the Serbian government responded to yesterday's statement by Angela Merkel, who is probably a Hague and criminal. What does it mean that the situation in the north of KIM will be resolved by a combination of politics and military resources? Against whom will this German military force be directed? Against the Serbs, Mr. Minister. Why didn't anyone from the Serbian government react to that? You are full of the mouth of human rights, democracy, Euro-Atlantic integration, declaring Serbs genocide, bringing the declaration of Srebrenica, we are to blame for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, all others are our victims, etc... (President: National MP, meaning that agreements concerning topics allow us to really widely interpret everything in the agenda, yet I would ask you to link all these arguments you have with one of at least two points of the agenda. Thank you. ) So, at St. Nicholas, one of the greatest Serbian fames, Angela Merkel comes to Pristina on purpose and says – the situation in the north of KiM will be resolved by a combination of politics and military methods. No one in the Serbian government responds to that. Why, Mr. Minister? Should the Germans shoot us again? Did they kill a little while during World War II? Do we have any Kragujeans, Kings, Hats, Nisha, any Serbian casualties? (President: People's MP, with full understanding, I remind you, that I would not waste your time and bore the course of the session, if I did not read the subject of the agenda, I would like you to make the argument you use in connection with any of the points of the agenda, from 14 to 19.) Mrs. Komic, I think you know a fact that is familiar with me and all of Serbia's citizens. From Albania's territory in 1999, Kosovo's Liberation Army terrorists, among other things, entered the territory of the SRJ and fought the Yugoslav army and members of Serbia's MUP. Here in the parliamentary group is General Delic, who is a living witness that even the soldiers and officers of the regular Albanian army participated in the struggles with members of the Yugoslav and Serbian military. We were exposed to direct aggression, not only of the NATO Pact, but also of the Republic of Albania. You and the SRJ state's aggressor, among other things, are signing an agreement on how a terrorist state will fight international terrorism. You can't convince anyone. That's scandalous. This is a shameful agreement to be found on the Serbian Parliament's agenda. I think the idea could have been born into an extremely unreasonable head, which absolutely has no hearing for the moment in which the state of Serbia is located and where its citizens are located in Kosovo and Metohija. Well, don't you have another country with which you can sign one of these agreements, but you have found the Republic of Albania, which is the sponsor of all the horrors that have happened in Kosovo and Metohija since 1996, until today? So it is the Republic of Albania behind Hashim Thaci. It is the Republic of Albania that promotes Kosovo and Metohija's independence. The Republic of Albania is a sponsor of terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija, and that should be said openly. What is also amazing, Mr. Minister, is that your great friends from Germany don't mind Hashim Thaci. You saw, yesterday, Mrs Angela Merkel was very warmly welcomed with Hashim Thaci, but was reportedly disturbed by Serbian extremists in northern Kosovo and Metohija. Well, I don't know what kind of extremists they are, no one up to those extremists, under the assumption that he didn't slaughter people, pull out their hearts, kidneys, lungs and those vital organs on the black market, and Hashim Thaci was doing it. How is it possible that one lady, who comes from a supposed civilized, democratic European country, is not bothered by such a man and that no one from the Serbian government reminds Mrs. Angel Merkel that she has given her hand to a man whose hands are bloody to the shoulder, who committed crimes that were not remembered in the 20th century, who may have a pandan only in what the infamous Nazi doctor Mengele did? Angeli Merkel does not mind Hashim Thaci, she is disturbed by Serbian extremists in northern Kosovo and Metohija. What message do you send to Serbian citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija by ratifying such an agreement? Gentlemen, what can we do for you? This is where Angela Merkel came in. She's going to solve your problems with the use of military force, or the German KFOR contingent, we can't do anything about it. She's our great friend and, you know, that's a condition for us to get an EU bid. If, Mr. Ljajic, it is a condition for you to recognise the independence of KIM, what do you think will be the condition to be full members of the EU someday? To give up the Vojvodina, Raska districts and bring Serbia down to Belgrade's pasture in a literal sense. If we need to give up KIM to obtain candidate status, what will they ask us when the question of our alleged full membership in the EU is raised on the agenda? The SRS is asking you to answer those questions. Let you now social security with Bulgaria and type-approval of wheels on vehicles, that is a complete question, not from the second one, but from the fifth row compared to what is happening on KIM. (President: But they are on the agenda, MP, the questions you mentioned, so I ask you about it. ) Yes, Mrs. Komic, it is the subject of the agenda, but unfortunately the state of Serbia is the only country in the world that does not hold to its dignity and is ready to ratify an agreement with a state that is open to its sovereignty and territorial integrity at KIM. Find me a country in the EU or outside the EU that is ready to sign one of these agreements. That's not the state. The only country in the world willing to do something like this is the Republic of Serbia under the rule of Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic. You don't have another example for this. Next, Mr. Minister, how do you treat Serbian friends in the world? Here, among other things, is what these agenda points are talking about. You are about to ratify an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, this country that was formed by secession from the SFRY was admitted to the UN as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and by signing an agreement in such a text, you are directly pushing your finger in the eye of Greece that did not recognise KIM, and you are giving for the right of Macedonia to do so. Would you be offended, Mr. Minister, if I told you your name was Suleiman and not Rasim? Probably would, because every civilized man expects you to call him what he calls himself. If this country is called the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, what do you call the Republic of Macedonia? Greece has a completely historic excuse not to recognise Macedonia's name, because Macedonia's notion is related to ancient Macedonia, to Alexander of Macedonia, for its Hellenistic political historical heritage. What does these Serbs really have to do with Alexander of Macedonia? They don't have anything to do with it. It is absolutely amazing that you who are calling for international law violate this international law. To us, the international right is one essential link to KIM, which is Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council. On the other hand, you from the Serbian government violate that very international public right, giving a false name to one of the states with which you sign the agreement. You can call the state in agreements as well as under the name under which that country was admitted into the organisation of the UN and no different. The country is not called the Republic of Macedonia, but the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. That should be insisted, so that someone doesn't pass out to think that Macedonia has anything to do with Macedonia now, Philip of Macedonia and his son, Alexander. It has nothing to do with historical, territorial, language, or cultural. Instead of handing over Serbian friends in the world, among other things, Greece, you are working against them, while signing an agreement with the Republic of Albania. Then you wonder how Serbia does not have allies in the fight for KIM. You sincere allies of Serbia are pushing away, and you want to accept states that clearly and loudly say they do not want to be your allies. Mr. Minister, what should happen, how many Serbs in Kosovo still have to be killed, so that you realize that Germany doesn't want you, that Serbia doesn't want us, that the UK doesn't want us? These are the souls who killed Serbs whenever they had a chance and the Germans would do it again if they could. That's the essence of the whole story.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64617	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report to use their right in this part of the session? No, I don't. If not, I would like to inform you that it is in accordance with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search, applied for a word in writing, and with a number of MPs, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. The first reported in a row is the People's MP Vjerica Radeta, followed by MP Petar Jojic. So, MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic, Milorad Buha, Dragan Stevanovic, Natasa Jovanovic and Dusan Maric. The service will be ticking and delivered to you. The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we are here today, among other things, discussing an agreement on co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, and then the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, misspelled, and then between the Government of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bulgaria. Interestingly, all these countries are on the list of countries that have recognised the false state of Kosovo. What's interesting and what we of the SRS are asking you is when are you going to stop at such a bump on, obviously, the losing path to the EU? They must have cooled your heads on December 9th when they made it clear to you that it would not be Serbia in the EU, but it is not enough for you, you continue to trample on the dignity of each Serbian citizen individually and trample on the dignity of the Serbian state, including any agreement with any of these countries, which we are actually talking about today. Interestingly, when it comes to this agreement between Serbia and Bulgaria on social security, what is in Article 1 of this Agreement? This Article 1 speaks of the definition of terms and is said: Bulgaria – in this agreement the following terms mean, number 1 - territory "in relation to the Republic of Serbia, the state territory of the state of Serbia". Mr Ljajic, do you mean in this term the Republic of Serbia with KIM as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia? We fear not, because you conclude the agreement with the state that has recognised the false state of Kosovo. So this in terms of Bulgaria means the state of Serbia without KIM. This is a very serious question and we really expect to answer all these questions that we've asked you so far, and of course the ones that we're going to ask you today during this debate. And what is completely insane in this whole situation is that you first sign the agreements and then bring us these agreements for ratification. Of course, if that were the case, I don't know why the chairman is looking at me strangely, that's something that's completely upside down in Serbia's legal system in the last 11 years, but unfortunately, it's not the only thing in the Serbian state's legal system that's been upside down, because nothing you've done so far has proved to be in the interest of any Serbian citizen and is not in the interest of the Serbian state. We also have an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, as you have written here, not to repeat what my colleague Martinovic said, that you cannot call a country any other than the names that were accepted in the UN for that country, but well, you've already heard that, and you probably don't care. But it is an agreement, therefore, as you have written between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the conditions of travel for citizens of this country. Let's remind ourselves, a few days ago, a citizen here who is unfortunately the president of the Serbian state, Boris Tadic, and without ratifying this agreement was visiting the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia and from there, giving an interview to their daily Dnevnik, it seems to me that they are called, told Serbian citizens and told their European friends, that he thinks it would be good to recognise dual sovereignty when it comes to KIM territory. Double sovereignty means nothing long-term recognition, official recognition of the false state of Kosovo. It is simply amazing that the president of the state sends messages to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this way, not even from his own country, but from this other country. He also said that we must take care of the Serbs in Macedonia in Temisvar, Montenegro, etc. And he says, of course, about the Serbs in Kosovo. So, Boris Tadic has brought the Serbs to KIM equalized with Serbs living in...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64619	People's MPs, I am going to ask you to bring the president of the Republic of Serbia into contact with some of the laws confirming the agreement, in order to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which obliges you to speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64620	The next agreement you proposed on the agenda and discussed is the Agreement on Co-operation in the fight against organised crime, international trafficking in drugs and international terrorism between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania. It's really amazing, and it's perfectly clear to you that such an agreement and any agreement with Albania can be signed by any of you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that you're asking that this assembly ratify it. Among other things, in this preamble to the UN General Assembly resolution, you say the number of resolutions, relating to international co-operation in the fight against organised crime, as a single convention, etc. I would like to draw attention to this in order to make it clear that you are here referring to some resolution of the General Assembly, and we ask you why you are not referring to Resolution 1244? Of course, that doesn't occur to you. Again, I must mention the name, or function of the president of the state, who on December 9th talked about how those in the EU told him to demand that Resolution 1244 be denied, so he told them, etc. Like he was talking about some of his family relationships. Even if he talked about it, he'd probably be consulting with his wife and kids. So, it's just amazing. The basic motive for confirming this agreement, you write this, is the need to further strengthen and improve police co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Albania, as a territorialally close country. Mr Ljajic, Albania is not a Serbia's territorialally close country, but a state bordering Serbia. It's amazing that you can write these things in this explanation. So you already acknowledge that there is a state between Albania and Serbia. This is one of the 20 ways you have already recognised the false state of Kosovo, you from the government of the Republic of Serbia and generally everyone in the Boris Tadic regime. It's really scandalous what you're trying to plant on the MPs. When it comes to Albania, we can't help but remind you of Dick Marty's report. When a colleague Martinovic earlier spoke of the truly monstrous things that the sheptari did, when it came to human organ trafficking, when he mentioned that they were pulling people's hearts, organs, that they were slaughtering people, etc., I watched some folk MPs frowning and, like, they couldn't listen to it. Yes, it's terrible, it's monstrous and to listen and to be said, but it's what they did to Serbs and living Serbs, they pulled out their organs and sold them through Albania. You want us to work together with Albania? It's just amazing, Mr. Ljajic. Why didn't you insist, we of the SRS suggest that you really start an investigation on Dick Marty's report? How – under the auspices of the UN. Who should lead the investigation -- the competent authorities of Serbia and Albania. Why? Because it's about citizens of Serbia, who were living by their organs. Why and the authorities of Albania? Because Albania as a state was very involved in human organs trafficking. Then you're ironic with the MPs and you say you want some kind of deal in the fight against international terrorism with Albania. Is there a larger litter of international terrorism than the work of the Shipari and what is being done in Albania? Living people were getting their organs out. What did the state of Serbia do, how much did you push for Dick Marty's report to come on the agenda, to really get Dick Marty's report conducted, and to have someone answer, to match Hashim Thaci, directly involved in this? No, you have Hashim Thaci as prime minister of some state, he's your partner, Mr. Ljajic. You're talking to the vice president of the so-called state of Kosovo to that Edith Tahiri. She and Borko Stefanovic are talking. You acknowledge both in this way and in many ways you have recognised the false state of Kosovo. Then you still want us to agree and sign an agreement with a country whose territory is a yellow house, a famous yellow house. It's really amazing. What I also need to finish because of my other colleagues, just to point out the short preamble to this agreement concerning Serbia and Turkey. In a desire to improve bilateral co-operation, you say -- with the aim of strengthening and developing friendly relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey, to improve well-being and stability in the peaceful atmosphere in both countries, as part of the principle of mutual respect for the sovereignty of both sides' interests. Have you also admitted here that you do not recognise the sovereignty of the Serbian state within our Constitution and the Constitution of established borders, where Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia. I'm also afraid you haven't, because Turkey doesn't recognise such sovereignty. Turkey has recognised the sovereignty of the fake state of Kosovo. Mr. Ljajic, you haven't talked about these agreements, perhaps because you agree with us, with what we say. If that's not the case, then tell me if we're right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64621	Thirteen minutes used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have already pointed out in previous exhibitions the monstrous attempts and the unprecedented scandals of what the state of Serbia is doing, i.e. Its government when it comes to relations between neighbours and between states. This is a scandal. Mr. Ljajic's not here, the minister's out, but it's a shame he came out. We must have the first established borders between Albania and Serbia. We don't have that. We have no established borders with Macedonia either. We have no established borders between Bulgaria. We don't have Croatia either, although Croatia is not in this draft agenda this time. It is a miracle that we so easily identify ourselves and forget the crimes committed by Albanian terrorists, criminals and robbers for centuries. Ms. Vjerica Radeta and Mr. Martinovic warned you that you did not stick to the basic international document Resolution 1244. If we want to conclude agreements with Albania, we need to review relations between Albania and Serbia as much as we need to determine which crimes were supported by terrorists, criminals, criminals, thieves, frauds, and you can call them anyway because they deserve it. The former SFRY singled out 365m dollars each year, one million a day for Kosovo and Metohija, to bring Albania together with separatists from Kosovo and Metohija and to do everything possible only to drive the Serb population out of their country. Participation in events from 1990 to 2000, and since 2000, no one from the ruling coalition has mentioned Kosovo since the arrival of DOS authorities in the Republic of Serbia since 2000. There was no concern for the citizens of Kosovo, no concern for state territory about its sovereignty and security and the integrity of the state. Only a year ago, two days ago, the government began to advertise after Hashim Thaci and his criminals and terrorists declared the independent state of Kosovo and Metohija. Why hasn't the Serbian government asked for and demanded first of all before the United Nations, so the Security Council...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64623	People's MP, I ask you about one of the topics of the agenda, or that the argument that you're making right now is connected to any point and that I remind you that you are obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64624	This agreement is scandalous. This is not a good agreement for Serbia, when it comes to Albania, and also when it is an agreement with Macedonia. I noted, you have probably noticed that we have no established borders, and the other with Albania we have experience that Albania has primarily been a protagonist of leading terrorist actions in the area of Kosovo and Metohija and that we do not have a planned number of police, military and customs officers, as regulated by Security Council Resolution 1244, and in order to conclude an agreement with a state, we have to have clean accounts. We must first, determine whether it's a friendly country or hostile. Albania is an enemy country to Serbia. This agreement is being signed, and here it should today, as Mr Martinovic said, also finds the interior minister who could give us some information, what is the state of the border between Serbia and Albania. Since we Serbian radicals don't recognize this, let's call it an independent Shiptar, criminally independent state. We can now talk about the border between Albania and Serbia. That is my opinion and the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party. But the current government does not mention for years whether our forces should return to the border between Albania and Serbia. It's silent. And this is fundamental, above all evidence, that the international community and the Security Council should be addressed daily and asked to regulate the issue first, and then we can talk about closing any agreements, not that we conclude agreements with an enemy that destroys the Serb population in the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija. There's no way we can forget the crimes of the Shipar. In no way can we forget that Joseph Broz brought first of all a regulation prohibiting vomiting
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64625	People's MP, but I really ask you, Joseph Broz and these four certification laws, you really can't in any way put me in a relationship and please, I really ask you to spare me the obligations if we're MPs together taking care of the order at the session, to spare me the obligation to give notices because you resist the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the agenda. I'm asking you about the agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64626	Mrs. Comic, I guess it is undeniable that we are talking between Albania and Serbia and in this agreement. I'm only sticking to that agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64627	People's MP, I wouldn't remind you to stick to the agreement and these four as well as everyone else carefully read and check, listen carefully to every MP, and I believe that in good faith we can listen to all the breadth of the argument, but when the MP insists that he maintains his argument and exposure without having anything to do with the agenda, I have to react, I am bound by the Rules of Procedure to do so. I ask you about the agenda, without Joseph Broz and resolutions that have nothing to do with the topic of the agenda. As much as that was set up as an argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64628	I'm bringing Article 1 into contact with both Broz and Albania.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64629	People's MP, this is the last time I'm warning you. (Petar Jojic, from the place: You see, illegally...) People's MP, you have to listen to me, last warning. I interrupted you twice. It is your obligation to listen when the chairman interrupts you. Now I'm interrupting you for the last time in your exposure, next time I'm expropriating your first warning. Please, on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64630	You see, in this preamble agreement that says that the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, representing the interior minister of the Republic of Albania and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Serbian Interior Minister, would have asked you a little earlier, it would have been good if Mr Dacic had explained some things to us because we still didn't understand things very well from this text, he said "the parties in an effort to contribute to the development of mutual relations". Am I on the agenda? I did. "Convinced that co-operation in the fight against international crime is of importance to both countries." We say -- with Albania, we cannot conclude agreements because Albania is an enemy country of Serbia. Be careful, he says, "concerned about the danger of spreading illegal drug trafficking and other dangerous and harmful substances, weapons, international crime and other, both countries". You know, if the government's proposal is that he is a country, that he represents both the government and the state and the National Assembly, I tell him that he is not the one who can, without a citizens' referendum, conclude contracts with the enemies of the Serbian state. "Coordination of activities in the fight against international organised crime, illegal migration and hence," it continues. You see, Mrs. Comic, from Albania's territory for more than 100 years, they have crossed the border of Albanians, settled in KIM and thus occupied our country, and no one asks them how they came from the sheep's flocks and how when the weapons were stolen after 1990 in Albania, how these weapons were transported to KIM on donkeys and that Thaci's KLA was armed. I don't think that's right and it's not good for the state of Serbia to have us conclude a deal with Albania. I was in Kosovo in 1981 with 10,000 police and I can tell you...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64631	National MP, the agreement is with the Republic of Albania. I interrupt you only when you show intent beyond any doubt that you are talking about what you want, not what the topic of the agenda is. So your attempt to talk about a subject that is not the subject of either of these four points will not be enabled. Please, on the agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64632	Here, on the agreement, the case, Article 2. We believe that these forms of co-operation absolutely cannot be applied and that these forms of co-operation are harmful to Serbia. The competent authorities provided for in Article 3 are also bodies that absolutely should not participate in any bilateral or other relations with the Republic of Albania on behalf of Serbia. Since you showed me that I did not stick to the agenda, I do not agree with you because I was really on the agenda the whole time and I tried to say something when it comes to relations between Serbia and Albania. Once again, I must announce to the citizens of Serbia, Albania is an enemy country and there is no conversation with it and no agreements should be concluded with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64633	It was used 12 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Buha, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64634	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing several agreements that do not correspond to the issue from the SRS' point of view. We object to the government and state institutions not paying attention enough to conclude these agreements with total diplomatic, economic, economic, financial aspects between countries. When we talk about relations between Albania and Serbia, I think it is unacceptable any form of bargaining until all the problems are solved, including what should be addressed at the Security Council for the other day, regarding human organs trafficking. I think it's important and there's no agreement or deal until this dispute is settled. In the historical context, I think that between our people and the Albanian people there are very controversial points that have been very present throughout history and it is unacceptable to talk in one segment and the overall relations are undefined. A similar situation with Macedonia. First, I would agree with the predecessors that the name Macedonia does not stand in international legal terms. We know what the UN Organization has done, and we need to uphold international law. In some situations, we consistently advocate certain resolutions and certain conventions, declarations, resolutions, etc. and we are calling for international law, and here we stand down from international law. I think we are violating good friendly and brotherly relations with the Greek people who were very consistent, principled in not recognising the independence of KIM, the sacred Serbian country. This agreement violates these relations. Why does that seem? Firstly, it is due to the inconsistencies of the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia. The moment Macedonia recognised an independent KiM, the state authorities made the right move, they declared a state representative or ambassador of Macedonia persona non grata and he left the country. Such a trail of relations had to be with all countries in the region and in the world. Persona non grata was declared Montenegrin and Macedonian ambassador. What about the others? We are now entering a segment and you are saying in the light of this agreement with Macedonia that the aim of this agreement is to establish friendly relations between the two countries and regulate certain relations in facilitating the travel of citizens of this country. We can't leave that aspect. Why? Because the huge problems of the Serb population in Macedonia are. They are discriminated against until the end. I was a representative of a commission visiting with the support of the embassy in Macedonia, which gave us a clear picture of the position of the Serb population in Macedonia. The people are discriminated against. Our people in that country do not have the scope of human rights that is necessary and normal in modern relations. Our people there have been denied faith. The Serbian Orthodox Church is not recognised as a religious community there. Religious processing is carried out in private facilities. A few days ago and five years ago and three years ago and so on. Episcope Branski, an official representative of the SPC, was arrested. The same is true of the clergy of the SPC. Hundreds of SPC religious facilities were seized after Macedonia's independence in 1991. On the other hand, our historical cultural objects are collapsing. Here, and now President Tadic was at a monument that was erected in the 1930s, it is the famous Zebrnjak monument for the victory in the Kumanovska Battle, where more than 20,000 Serbs died. The facility is collapsing, the facility is knowingly collapsing by Macedonian authorities. What did President Tadic say during his visit to the facility? Not a single sentence about why you're doing it, it's a historical monument. What's wrong with this? Who's bothering me? Why are they tearing him down? Cemeteries are collapsing, historical monuments are collapsing from battles during World War I, World War II, etc., but the biggest problem is the Serb problem in Macedonia. They've been discriminated against, they're not employed, they don't have as much rights as the Macedonians have here. We must apply a system of reciprocity, as many rights to the Macedonian national minority as the Serb population has rights in Macedonia. I'll tell you from the financial aspect one piece of information. In 2010, the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia gave over 100,000 euros to the Macedonian community. How much did they get in Macedonia? No euro.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64635	People's MP, please give the argument you're using yet sum up with the content of the agreement we're talking about and the law on confirming this agreement. All the questions you've raised at least in some way, you've got to get in touch with the agreement, otherwise I have to remind you not to talk about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64636	I am talking about Article 1 concerning the equality of citizens in terms of mutual travel from one country to another.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64637	That's right, MP, the journey between us, so I'm asking you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64638	State-owned Serbian institutions in Macedonia have been discriminated against. They cannot get state documents from Macedonia, they cannot get state documents from the Republic of Serbia. Some were born in Serbia. Their children, in some circumstances, have given birth here, etc. There is no correlation between these national authorities. You must understand that. That's what we've been trying to figure out. We informed the Serbian Parliament in writing because we were representatives of the Serbian Parliament as parliamentarians and pointed to all the problems our citizens face there. They've got a lot of problems. We can't go to this agreement on a partial basis, not seeing their problems. We have to protect them. The presence of the president of the state doesn't mean anything. It has been manipulated as have been manipulated by many ministers who have left so far. We were present with 30 representatives of the Association of Citizens, various cultural, sports institutions of Serbs in Macedonia, who told us openly – this is terror over Serbs, help us. Here, in the national sense alone, I'm going to say that in the 1960s there were over 250,000 Serbians living there. How long is she now? It's 35,000. It's open discrimination, assimilation of the Serb population. We have to stop that. Are we stopping with a deal like this by nagging fascism in Macedonia? We're not stopping.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64639	People's MP, I'm really warning you now on two grounds. First, let me remind you of your responsibilities for the public word. You are a messenger of the people, and you have spoken things in the hall for the meetings of the National Assembly. Please let us listen to ourselves as we speak. Please listen carefully to what we're saying. Your word, like any other 249 MPs, is heard very far. Now I warn you, I do not give you any warning, but I warn you that you first speak about the subject of the agenda, secondly, to take care of the way in which you express your view of anyone, for your own sake and for your own sakes and for the sake of the rules of conduct.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64640	What I said, that's what I wrote. It's an official report from a committee that was a three-member and a commission that was there.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64641	People's MP, on the subject of the agenda, and next time, I'm really telling you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64642	The task of the national authorities, when entering into the negotiation of the agreement, is to collect all relevant data, including information relating to travel and administrative and personal documents. In a concrete case, the Republic of Macedonia does nothing to allow Serbs to receive travel documents, IDs and any documents relating to individuals and inability to travel normally. That's what they told us openly. I suppose I can say in this House that I was officially authorized in front of this Parliament and transferred that position. That's what I wrote. I asked for a position, including this parliament, regarding the state and position of the Serb minority in Macedonia. The second agreement I want to talk about is the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bulgaria on social security. This is one form of agreement in which Serbs again have no particular benefit. Who benefits from that? Who has certain obligations? It has obligations that the Republic of Bulgaria must conclude with all neighbouring countries social security agreements, i.e. social security, according to EU provisions and principles. Do we have that obligation? We do, but we're still in the middle of something unprincipled. We and Bulgaria have, let's say, in the last twenty years a lot of good relations, but this principle must be applied not only in the case of Bulgaria, but also in all other countries. We made a contract with Croatia. Under the provisions of the agreement, Croatian state authorities were obliged to pay off all pensions, all disability and all other social benefits in accordance with the provisions of the signed agreement. How much of it did they do? Almost nothing. A similar situation is with the social insurance agreement with BiH, Montenegro and other countries we have concluded with. We don't apply, we don't materialize all those provisions. That's the essence of our problem. We sign it and then leave the verse, let it happen the way it happens. So, what's the situation after that? We run out of material rights and all the financial obligations that our citizens have. From the point of view of the SRS is an unacceptable way of carrying out. We'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64643	Ten minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been given by MP Dragan Stevanovic, followed by National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64644	Excuse me, if you could just tell us how much time we have available?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64645	Thirty-three minutes and 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a lot of this has been said by my colleagues and in some way expressed the position of the SRS regarding all these agreements that we are talking about now. In most of my time since the time of the SRS parliamentary group, I will refer to the agreement spoken by the minister. I have often spoken in this assembly of events and phenomena that occur in border areas, especially in relations with the Republic of Bulgaria. I think that this agreement that we need to talk about today, which, if you provide most of the voting day, will I assume and ratify, what effects will it possibly produce, and will some of the effects essentially in the lives of people living in border areas, will it produce any effects, will some things be made easier for them, and will some things and some of the phenomena that have very bad political connotations across the Republic of Serbia be introduced into legal flows? Of course, what I must say in principle, and as far as these agreements are concerned, I think that today through debate and eventual vote of these agreements and ratification, we send a very bad message to our friends, the friendly states who want to support us in our political ambitions to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state, and if this does not concern the political interests and intensity of this country, then also for the economic, social, diplomatic and each other. Why do I say that? We are talking today about agreements with countries that have recognised the independence of KIM. It is simple, you must admit, to support one taste in the mouth when you talk about an agreement with Turkey on co-operation in the fight against serious crimes, terrorism and organised crime. I remind you that today Turkey is the largest lobbyist of recognising Kosovo's independence in the world. And anyone who today in Serbia does not want to accept the political, military and economic power and the power of Turkey to recognise it, that it exists, that it is visible, would be unserious. But in preserving our political and national territorial interests, we have no obligation to make such agreements with them. We think this agreement will not help Serbia defend, yet, at least declare the political stances of the government, but will safeguard the territorial integrity and integrity of this country. This will not stop Turkey from accepting, admitting and saying that the country so-called. Kosovo has been called on terrorism, organised crime, serious crimes, and we will have our relationship with Kosovo, as an independent state, that is, towards the Republic of Serbia to change and we will accept Serbia in internationally recognised borders with its southern Serbian province. Turkey's political ambition and political presence in these areas for Serbia is very destructive. Turkey is the largest policy exponent of the United States in the Balkans. And no one can and cannot deny it. The Ito services of this state know, but the services are whispered, the services are framed by the official policy of this country. They can't do their jobs, because the state doesn't have the political courage to stand up to ambitions that aren't our best interests, or they can't be compatible with our political interests, and we have a problem here. It is a problem of politics, not state institutions and services that may be able to function under leadership or a conductor's stick of a completely different policy in a completely different way. We therefore believe that Serbia needs an absolute new policy, a policy against European integration policy, a policy that will show courage, courage, diplomatic wisdom and dignity. It will be the best message to all countries in the world, how the national interests of one country are protected, and on the other hand, or indirectly, it will give you the right to expect or possibly seek any support from these countries. So, to make agreements with states that are absolutely focused on destroying the state sovereignty of this country, it's completely pointless and we repeat, that country behind the Urals and other countries that are friendly, they send a very bad message. Now let me refer to this agreement Mr Ljajic spoke of. You see, this agreement will indirectly out of force put two agreements, or directly one, and indirectly the other. The one that will be indirectly put into effect is from 1957, the People's Democratic Yugoslavia has concluded it with Bulgaria. The second to be put out of force is the agreement between the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Bulgaria which was ratified, I think in November 2003. Imagine what it says here in the explanation that after its entry into force, there was no exchange of ratification instruments, and therefore there was no agreement between these two countries. This indicates how interested the state was, in fact, and how important and important it was to give to this agreement and in general relations with the Republic of Bulgaria. And in principle, as Mr. Buha said earlier, we have had a correct relationship with the Republic of Bulgaria these past few years, but behind the scenes there are very bad and dangerous things that represent very one, in perspective, unpleasant political connotation for Serbia. I've said here on several occasions what in Bosilegrad certain people and certain elements are trying to do. But I am not sure that this agreement will significantly address any problem of these people in the border area, nor will this country wake up and try to focus its attention much more actively, and attention, and capacity, and political and economic, to protect the Bulgarian people representing the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in that area. These problems don't bother them. They're the state of Serbia, and I'm going to say frankly, she forgot. Dear Sir, give it to the government for six months, the government of the Republic of Serbia is unable to get off the master's path connecting Bosilegrad with Surdulica. They haven't been able to make their way through the highway for six months. Don't ask us what the road is like there. Do you know why I'm saying this? Because the social, health, judicial protection of the people of Bosilegrad must be achieved in Surdulica or Vranj. They have to make it happen and they have to come. So, from the House of Health in Bosilegrad, they were sent to Vranje health center or Surdulica. They can't come because the state doesn't take care of that people up there. What comes out of it, dear gentlemen? Of course, and it's natural to turn to those who want help and want to give it to them. That's what I'm talking about. A citizen of Bosilegrad, who pays health insurance in the Republic of Serbia, should wait a year or more to replace a hip or solve a problem with his hip at the Clinical Centre in Nis, but on the cost of local self-government from Bosilegrad, it was organised by an agreement signed by the municipality of Bosilegrad with VMA in Sofia, in three or five or ten days, they solve the problem, and imagine, without a single dinar, or euro, or left, depending on what the means of payment is. This deal won't work out. You will not change the country's concerns with these citizens by this agreement, nor will you stop official Bulgaria from doing these things. This is very, I don't want to complicate things, but these are very perfidious things that undermine our political stability and our state integrity. They're our citizens and we have to take care of them. Dear gentlemen, I'm not saying what's going on in the field of education and education. Namely and nominally, I can talk about people who are absolutely focused on destructive action in relation to Serbia, and they receive the salary from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Children finishing schools in Nis, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Leskovac, in certain schools have no chance of getting a job in Bosilegrad, our universities. Therefore, in a month's time, colleges in some state schools in Sofia, Bulgaria, and under some very strange circumstances in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, have ratified their diplomas in 15 days of school in Bulgaria, becoming professors or directors of schools in the territory of the Bosilegrad municipality. These are real life problems. So the school director shows up to you, I'll tell you the name and last name, Methodi Chipe, the high school in Bosilgrad and the student who graduated from school, the university at the University of Slovenia says openly – you won't get a job at the competition you answered. You can't get a job. But the one who finished school overnight and magically nostrified his degree in Serbia in some institutions in Vojvodina gets a job. Not to mention the problems of entering books, the opposite of attitudes, laws and interests and the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this area. These are serious problems. This agreement doesn't solve it. The Republic of Serbia has far more important and important problems in the area, above all, to protect domestic national interests, the national interests of the Republic of Serbia, protecting citizens of the Bosilgrad municipality, whatever nationality they are. These are loyal citizens and the state must show its care and motherhood towards them, not their mother being Bulgaria, and their stepmother being Serbia. This is serious stuff. We appeal to who knows which way to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for educational inspection, for health inspection and for all other competent state authorities, to focus on this area, so that we have all the arguments in our hands to defend our state sovereignty and integrity and in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64647	Twelve minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and after that, MP Dusan Maric, and he is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64648	Mrs. Comic, it is a real shame that the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Ivica Dacic, is not present, to discuss this agreement, which has been most said today, of this really great shame and shame for the Republic of Serbia, to sign this agreement with the Council of Ministers of Albania, of an agreement on organised crime, international trafficking in drugs and international terrorism, because we have already, while Mr. Dacic was chairman of the Committee on Defence and Security, and also later at meetings of that committee, repeatedly through the the thematic discussions and through reports we have just dealt with this topic. For us Serbian Radicals and for all of Patriotic Serbia, it's amazing, and, imagine, this is what Serbs now view as KIM, that the state of Serbia has dared to sign such an agreement that is truly embarrassing and embarrassing. I have to remind the public, if someone didn't say it at the beginning, when the agreement was signed. In March of 2010. A year before the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Dick Martin, a former state prosecutor, and now Senator Switzerland, submitted a resolution on the trade in Serbian authorities, which they tortured, beastly killed both living people and children by Cypriot terrorists in the area of Albania, in a "yellow house", in a place that many world media, even before Marty submitted a report, had investigated. You remember that in 2005, we had a lot of potential for that group of GNI agents, which was active in KIM, under some humanitarian alleged work, in the Parliament of the Assembly we talked about, which unequivocally established, on the orders of the Bundestaga Committee, that Cypriot terrorists were dealing with arms trafficking and people, and that they were beastly killing the Serb nemity, Serbian civilians and in the "yellow house", as they wrote to you, at the end of the cursed village, all of this was done, and later quoted by Karl del Ponte, who also in his book, after a certain time, as this false indictment against our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, announced that Zoran Djindjic had said, since he had ordered that such indictment to be written, that our president had not been brought back to The Hague for nine years. How many states Serbia has absolutely no hearing of what the people recognize as treason, as a scandal, such as this, so the one that we had 15 days ago -- the signing of an agreement on military co-operation with the Ustasha Croatian authorities, speaks enough about Tadic, your regime and the fact that there is only one man here who is a representative of the ministry, who can neither pollute with us, nor respond to all of this, and the facts are on the side of the speech of Serbian radicals and what I will continue through concrete data. Anyone who has been invited to political developments in the area of the former Yugoslavia, and especially after everything that has happened since the occupation of our southern province in 1999, knows very well that the Albanian mafia represents not only the greatest evil in Europe, but, as many experts say, the world's greatest evil against organised crime and terrorism. Albania's mafia today counts over half a million members and applies to one of the most powerful links of the world's underworld, because it controls the US market, Europe, the Middle East and North Africa, and its specialities, and absolutely everyone knows it, including the committee and committee dealing with this issue in the organisation of the UN, is precisely the specialty of the Albanian mafia in human trafficking, human organs and narcotics. That it was the World Crime Base, it was concluded early in 2005 in the US State Department, but it didn't bother the Americans to continue to finance, as they did 20 years ago, the Shipatarian terrorists and ballistics, who killed Serbian children and committed atrocities, this in the "yellow house" and other places at KIM, but they, behold, the reforms are working, and it was published by "Washington Post" and some media have written about how the Albanian mafia works and what their real goal is. In the spring of 2009, a similar assessment was brought by the Committee, which I already mentioned, for organised crime by the UN, which in Vienna found that the Albanian mafia remained at the top of the world's underworld, in which it has been active for 40 years. The tentacles of the Albanian mafia and the terrorist chain of all these crimes lead right through Albania, with which you signed an agreement on such co-operation. The largest foothold in the Balkans is right in the area of our southern province of KIM, moving from Pakistan, through Turkey, to Central Europe, the eastern coast of the United States and Canada. Naser Keljmendi, now 54, is headed by the currently strongest Albanian mafia and criminal families in the Balkans, who run all the affairs from Tirana, Peća and Sarajevo, because these are his movements, which are known as one of the largest drug lords. Now, explain to me, Mrs. Comic, you are a reasonable woman and you are a longtime parliamentarian, how will the state of Serbia, which at this point neither the police nor Serbia want under, first of all, Djindjic, and then Tadic, now use the annex of the 1244 treaty, to send at least a thousand police officers and soldiers to our southern province, that then a state that has absolutely no police presence, no security authorities, which we know very well through the reports that we receive in the Defence and Security Committee, will do anything to stop the operation of Albanian terrorist groups, drug and other mobs, when they are precisely with the help of NATO, America and Western Europe, the EU, which you are eager to enter, selling out Serbian territory and giving up KIM, doing just that in the fruit for various intelligence services, above all the US CIA? It's all data and it's exact stuff and no one can kill it. Then a sound and reasonable question arises – that someone before the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Serbian state, sign such an agreement? You know, it wasn't the epilogue that adopted Dick Marty's report, it was just the finals. He worked for two years on a comprehensive report voted by 169 MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. But there were absolutely all the Ship's lobbyists, from all the countries, because we as members of the delegation attended that debate and voted for that resolution, and we knew and knew it, as were those from Washington, the State Department, as well as Angela Merkel, who came to give the evil man Thaci's hand, to give him support to continue with her plan, which is the complete secession of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia and, of course, the next order you'll get from them was, and later on February 12th, and later in March of the month, and already these days it's being carried out from the Brussels administration, to dissipate, as they say, the parallel institutions in the north of KIM...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64649	Please, on the agenda topic as broadly as the argument requires, but still on one of the agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64650	This has everything to do with the functioning of the Albanian, or the Cypriot mafia in the entire Balkans, because they could not have done anything, the UNHK terrorists, had not had direct support from Tirana and elsewhere in Albania. This is what the facts are, and many of our people and experts working on it are written about today. As for the Albanian mafia and how well-known it is for people working in security structures, you know, back in 1988, the way it was, the post-Broat security structure was written by the UN and asked to shed light on the link between Albanian drug lords and political structures that prepared the secession attempt and now the keen support of Merkel, Washington and the EU of our southern province. This really is one topic that takes a lot of time. The very data I would bring here would take at least an hour to tell them about it. How irresponsiblely we are to this issue, since we are discussing this in the Assembly, the People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia, I will tell you, Mrs. Komic, the shame and shame when we were in NATO's pact this summer, in which you want to enter, and the criminal organisations, when DS MPs laughed over the data that counterpart Boris Alexic brought to those evildoers, NATO's generals, saying that sheik Al Muhammad, one of the deputies...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64651	People's MPs, as interesting as that may be to you and, I have no doubt, quite correctly, however please, the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64652	Mrs. Comic, I wanted to finish my presentation with a very reasoned...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64653	People's MPs, I have to interrupt you every time you're completely away from the agenda theme so far that my silence and forgetting that I should remind you would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I can't afford it because of my ageing on the agenda, so I'm asking you about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64654	I'm going to end this, and then I'm going to give you a notice that this sheik Muhammad, one of the main helpers of Shiptar terrorism and organised crime, has just stayed for 10 years at KIM and that your MPs did not want to accept it as a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64655	People's MPs, I can't say anything other than to express regret that they are so stubbornly insisting that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure do not apply to you. It is an immeasurable damage that seems to this institution, which seems to me to be everything that I'm sure is your party's first advocate, and that this party's ideology should also be advocated by the MPs' club. If you want to deny by your behavior all the things that you normally stand for in your words, I'm sorry to have to say so. National MP Dusan Maric has a word. He's the last registered speaker, available for nine minutes. Please, on the subject of the agenda, without warning you. It is clear that I will apply the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64656	Ladies and gentlemen, when you and the Republic of Albania sign an agreement on co-operation against organised crime, against international terrorism, against drug trafficking, it's about as if you and Somalia are signing an agreement on co-operation in the fight against pirates or signing an agreement with Pakistan on co-operation in the fight against al-Qaeda and Islamic terrorism. I remind you that in the Republic of Albania several hundred Serbs have disappeared from KIM, that these people were killed there to extract their vital organs that were later sold on the world market. Carla del Ponte's report claims it's 300 people. For 10 years, the Republic of Albania has been covering up this crime and refuses to reveal the whereabouts of the remains of these unfortunates. Instead of considering breaking diplomatic relations with the Republic of Albania, which I think would be much more normal, the government of the Republic of Serbia proposes that we sign an agreement with this and such Albania on co-operation against organised crime, including the fight against human trafficking. Also, I repeat the fact that on maps literally all the police of the world's north of Albania are designated as a centre controlled by organised crime, that Albania is marked as the main drug trade centre in Europe and as the main recruiting centre of Al-Qaeda for the European area. I ask the question: How can we co-operate in the fight against drug trafficking with a country whose drug trade is one of the main business activities? The US Antidrug Agency (DEA) said in its report that Albanians control 65% of drug trafficking that appears on the world market and 90% of drug trafficking on the European market. He says, "The Albanian mafia from the Republic of Albania controls the US, Europe, the Middle East and North Africa." State Department's report on the state of world crime: "Albania is a transit country for drug trafficking, weapons, illegal migrants and counterfeit goods. "The UN organised crime committee report from two years ago: "The pips of the Albanian mafia, which, except Albania, has its sources in KIM, are moving from Pakistan and Turkey, across Central Europe, to the eastern coasts of America and Canada. Currently the most profitable job of the Albanian mafia is trafficking in people, girls, young women, children and children's organs." The report argues that only during 2008 did the Albanian mafia transfer "at least 70,000 people from Turkey, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, China" and others to Western countries. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not paid attention to these reports on what the US government thinks of the Republic of Albania, I quote the Government of the Republic of Serbia's report on Albania's involvement in KIM crime. I will quote only one sentence: "Albania is the largest money laundering centre and drug trafficking in the Balkans". This is said in the report by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which suggests that we sign an anti-drug trade agreement with Albania. The same government of the Republic of Serbia proposes that we work with Albania to fight terrorism. I'm adjusting to a few facts. The Republic of Albania was also the other centre, the Kosovo Liberation Army's command centre. Next, Tirana is the front seat for the ethnic liberation of Albanians. To liberate, they say occupied territories in the south of the Republic of Serbia, Macedonia, Greece, etc. This front has formed a terrorist organization called the Albanian National Army, ANA. Now, listen to this official data, headquarters, the ANE command center is located in Tirana. This terrorist group, the organisation, they say, is an army, and it is indeed an army that is part of the Kosovo Liberation Army, led by state security operatives of the Republic of Albania, Gafur Aljili and Aljban Josif. I also point to the fact that under his command, ANA has four divisions, four divisions of the terrorist army. One of the ANE operational headquarters is located in Pristina. One is located in Prizren, and the headquarters of one of the four divisions, and the division is called Adem Yasari, is made up of the Kosovo Protection Corps. This is very important and the Kosovo Liberation Army is located on the territory of the so-called area. the Republic of Kosovo. Next, the government of the Republic of Serbia signed an agreement on co-operation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, with a country whose literal political and mafia master Sali Berisha. At the celebration of 130 years of the Prizren League, I quote - we plan to create Albania within its natural borders by the end of 2013. As for the trafficking of human organs and these yellow houses. I ask one question whether anyone really believes that the authorities of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are removed in houses without electricity and water, in unhygienic and non-medical conditions. The yellow house is just a slow case. The kidnapped Serbs were pulled into these specialized clinics, which were fully equipped to extract organs, store organs and transport them to the orderly. For these reasons, all these clinics were located in a wider area of Tirana. This is confirmed by a special rapporteur of the Council of Europe, Dick Martin, whose report says that Serbs with KIM were brought to the village of Gura. Take a geographical map and you will see that this village is 25 km from the center of Tirana. The same report also mentions the village of Ripe, which is also 30km from Tirana's airport. Carla del Ponte says in her book: about 50 Serb civilians brought to the village of Ripe for organ extraction were butchered from KIM. I also draw attention to the fact that Dick Martin is categorical, that his report, I quote, is based on research and also on the available documents of Western intelligence services, after which man concluded that America and the EU countries knew about these crimes, but that I quote, they decided to simply close their eyes to those allegations. That the extraction of human organs and trafficking in human organs is an important business in the Republic of Albania with which we need to sign an agreement and that the government has already signed it in the fight against organised crime, it is seen from a report by the Greek government that says – in Albania there is widespread trade in children and children's organs, the extraction of organs is carried out in equipped clinics from where mainly diplomatic channels are transferred to Italy to continue to the west for sale. I was quoting the Greek government report. I quote the recent report by Greece's private television "Alpha" that claims to have published the survey and that in the last seven years, more than 12,000 children from Albania have become victims of illegal smuggling, and in most cases children or their organs have been sold for money. With this and such a Republic of Albania, we need to establish co-operation in the fight against organised crime, in the fight against drug trafficking, in the fight against human trafficking. This agreement will remain a dead letter on paper. He will only use the Republic of Albania to improve his image in the world public. Everyone will say that if Albania were such, the Serbian government wouldn't be crazy to sign such a shameful agreement with her.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64657	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups or of someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? If so, would you please sign up? Since there are no reports, I'm concluding a joint single search. Since we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the bill's proposals and I am now setting a break that will take a little longer than an hour. I remind you that the work has been extended, so we will continue to work in the afternoon work at 16.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64658	We can start the afternoon work. We move on to a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2011 and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2012. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on points 19 and 20 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I would remind you that it is in accordance with Article 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly belong to one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes; to the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - JS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit statements for the word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would also like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorized them to represent the People's MP Milorad Buha, the SRS parliamentary group. There are no other applications. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2011 and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2012. Is there anyone on behalf of the Proposer's representative who wants a word? No, I don't. Does anyone from the board of directors want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Mr Milorad Buha, president of the Committee on Industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64659	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, it is two decisions that the Committee on Industry, in line with the provisions of the Energy Law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, considered and proposed to the Assembly for adoption. I have to point out here one circumstance that is very unfavourable and very harmful from the aspect of the legal norm that obliges this body, or the National Assembly, to all those decisions on financial plans not only of this institution, not only of this regulatory body, but also of other regulatory bodies, to consider and adopt in terms provided for by the legal provisions so that these legal acts and financial acts, in this case and legal and financial acts, the financial plan for the performing year must have legal and financial form. In this case, it's two financial plans. It's just a miracle, here, the end of the year is 11 days, that today we're discussing the 2011 Financial Plan, when it was delivered here by the Energy Agency in the legal term, by the Committee on Industry was delivered on 16 December 2010, and here almost a year he didn't get into shape. Why is that now, why isn't it before? Why is it not common practice to consider at the end of the year financial reports not only of these agencies, but of all other agencies and of all other state institutions that have an obligation to drag their financial acts through the Assembly? When I say "prosecution," in a certain legal form, they get adequate decisions, and then it has one legal continent, one legal essence, legal integrity, and all this ends up being published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". That way, you use it often, you say we're becoming transparent. It is transparent and Serbian citizens must know what the Assembly adopts and does not adopt. In this case, the 2011 Financial Plan clearly appeared to have been standing somewhere in drawers in the National Assembly for a year and only today are we considering it. It is appropriate and normal to do so, and since I am in charge of the Industry Committee, I know that since 2004, this has not been through the Assembly or been published in the Official Messenger. These institutions worked financially and submitted final accounts and financial plans and proposed. The committee responsible, the Committee on Industry in this case, has given its own court, consent. Most of the board members were adopted by this Financial Polan and passed here. It is a grudge to the Assembly, but not only from the aspect of this agency, but other agencies must do so, and other regulatory bodies must make an account, laying down here their decisions on financial plans for the upcoming year. Why do we have problems? Why do we have crime? Why do we have various affairs in the means of information in those agencies? Just because we do not respect the legal norm, we do not respect everything that is a legal obligation and miss certain deadlines. In this case, the Assembly and criticism of the SRS refer to this Assembly which, here this legal-financial act has been held in its drawer for a year. On the other hand, we must point to a certain aspect of the SRS and the SRS' position on the income of individual agencies. We see these heterogeneous relationships in application of the regulations. Some agencies are financed exclusively from budget funds, others have mixed variants, partly budgets, partly income from their own sources of income, and some agencies have an exclusively variable of income by their own work. May I continue as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64660	Yes, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64661	That's one heterogeneous approach. Both the SRS and the economic team of the SRS have often pointed out to you, criticising the many agencies you have established, especially in the last four years, not to apply the strict provisions of the Law on Public Agencys, which oblige you to unify regulations and adapt the work and business of those agencies to the provisions of the Law on Public Agencys. However, nothing there has been done in terms of uniformity, homogenisation of certain regulations, and in particular this is important in terms of business. Why does it matter? Because individual regulatory bodies make their own sources of income and spend it the way they think they should spend it. And we have a situation that these agencies and regulatory bodies themselves determine the amount of compensation, taxis and other fees in terms of their income, which is unimaginable in the legal system, that I am determining the amount of compensation myself and that in this way I am making high incomes so that I can spend as much later as I planned, or adjust my income to my expenditures. The more he raises the fees, the more the fees, the more opportunities he will have in a dissuasive sense, in terms of expenditure. It's unimaginable in the legal system. You have it in the business of our regulatory bodies, it's one negative practice. There's crime, there's everything, but you don't do anything to get rid of it. For years, the Serbian Radical Party has indicated, and through these two points of the agenda, we will point to this problem and ask you to apply the provisions of the Public Agency Act consistently in practice. When we talk about the financial report, the financial plan for 2011 and 2012. There's a satisfied form, but yet there's still not a contentment that I'm going to talk about a little bit more about, just one segment. This is an independent agency, this is an expert agency in the field of energy, and it's been on the verge of events so far. She didn't have the essence she had in modern energy systems. By amending, or by innovating the law, the new Energy Act that we adopted five, six months ago, the agency received huge powers. During the debate on the Energy Act, we pointed to aspects of this agency's work and asked that the powers given to it be reduced. Why should it shrink? Because, in both human and political terms, I will especially highlight this political aspect, and in a professional sense it is not copied, it is not mature at this time to carry out everything that one regulatory body in one social system should have. As of 1 January 2012, this agency will be the regulatory body for determining the prices of all energy products, independent, independent, as defined by the law. It is a great danger, because of the political volunteerism that governs us, regardless of which agency is independent and professional and which will prepare adequate documentation to determine prices, who will really set the prices? Again politics, again government or individuals in power. What's most devastating is the price of energy will determine the lobby. What lobby? The energy lobby, from Lazarevic, from Hamovic and everyone else. We've been telling you that. Don't let us have one body behind which the lobby will hide, when it goes down, when the people, as it is now when the gas prices rise, the people stand up and say – don't, increase 20.25%. Then these authorities say from the Prime Minister to certain ministers, they say -- no, there's the agency, it's given the right parameters, it's consistent with the rules on how and conditions of determination and price levels, it's all searched for it, etc. We're amazed, but it's political volunteerism that's very harmful, because behind it hides the will of individual lobbies that suit us to have high or low prices at certain times. As a rule, it's high prices, prices our citizens can't bear. When we talk about the position and position of this agency, we must say that it will be exposed to enormous political pressures and will not be able to resist these political pressures, and in practice we will have political demands that certain prices are leveled in accordance with the calculated costs of our public enterprises and EPS and Serbiagas and heat, etc., of all those who are this branch. Can all Serbian citizens pay for this? I can't. We know ourselves from information funds, we get information that EPS citizens and businesses owe about 83, 84 billion dinars, Serbia's 40 billion, heat tens of billions, etc. A billion and a half euros is now the debt of citizens and businesses. It's huge debts. In normal countries, at the moment companies are in a blockade, they have to go bankrupt. However, this is quite normal for us, we even hear information from the EPS that it will most likely be a positive business. Can it be real business, normal and positive, if we have that kind of debt? It can't be normal and it can't be positive. What we do to enable citizens to settle neatly, if we know there are millions of unemployed, there are 50,000 people with disabilities that are not in the social care system, because we don't have a social map, we don't have a plan to resuscitate individual systems through certain social and state resources that we're going to help the public sector that in this area can't charge for objective reasons. The situation today is such that citizens cannot meet obligations, especially those that are unemployed, especially refugees, internally displaced persons, especially disabled people, especially those four hundred and some thousands of pensioners who have less than 100 euros in pension. How are they supposed to settle this high energy prices? I can't calm them down. You can't avoid the situation of helping them through a social map. But here's your promise for years that you'll do it, here's the social map, etc. We listened from Minister Ljajic at the beginning of the term of office of this government and this government and him as minister – here, in six months, in a year we will make a social map, we want to help the citizens, etc. Here is the end of the mandate, no social map, no social contributions and no help to Serbian citizens in those categories of population that cannot meet their obligations for social reasons. It's crazy what was done with the Ministry of Energy. In the third month when the government was reconstructed, the Ministry of Energy was abolished as an independent body and was attached to the Ministry of Infrastructure and thus became the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy. What's the reason? System reform. No one, no country in the world has ever entered reform procedures in an area, in a particular branch, and it shuts down the highest state body, the ministry. But behind that is a certain political story. From the head of the ministry, a man who advocated pro-Russian politics had to leave and he was removed from the ministry, the ministry was shut down, set up as an energy adviser. You know who it's about. It's a crazy situation for us to shut down something and get into reform procedures in the area. Is this about reform? It's not working. It was the only political dogma through which we would replace one, insert an independent authority into another body, etc., to baptise everything behind it, and behind it is the EU position which did not correspond to that man at the head of the ministry. When it comes to debt in the EPS, 83 - 84 billion is what citizens and businesses owe. It's about half the debt of citizens and businesses. Just that we don't have a social map and that the citizens are threatened and that they can't settle it. But what is the situation with the economy, and what seems to be the EPS, that through certain special contracts and special prolongings, payments and special benefits, the economy is being helped and the state is involved in all of this? Is the state showing interest in helping a public company? On the other hand, is there an EPS initiative to solve this problem? It doesn't exist. For the last year, that amount of 50 has risen to 83. What kind of situation will happen next year? Even worse – 120, 130 billion will be next year, etc. Rapidly, it's increasing, and we're not doing anything. The government and the government are doing nothing to stop this negative flow. Where is the position and position of the agency? What are you gonna do to that agency? You say it's an independent body, etc. Can she help with that? She can't – not professionally, not humanly, she can't help it all. He can't do it without the government. He can't do it without a serious government entering the system and reforming it. It's better to make a mistake with a certain measure, with a second and a third measure than to leave it to the verse. This is a naked verse. How are we gonna get out of it? Hardly. Not at all. With this power, not at all. That's why you have to give the election, to come forces that will change relationships. What the SRS tells you about how to finance the agency and other regulatory bodies, own revenues cannot be the income of a state institution, agency. This must be the state's income, because the state has formed an agency and there will be no abuse. Then, in balance, you will unify the system and level the expenditures in those agencies, and in terms of earnings, and in terms of material and immaterial costs. Like this, every agency looks to scratch as much as possible from the budget and as much from our own incomes – we raise our taxes, raise our fees and then spend as much as we collect. As a rule, we pick more because we set the price level ourselves. From the point of view of the SRS, it's tragic. You are aware of these facts, for you do nothing to correct it and remove it. Any revenue from the state authority must go to the budget. It is shared from that budget as well as from any direct budget beneficiary. Then it's known exactly that in that and that agency, the profit level is that way. It could be 10% higher or lower, but it can't be two, three, five, eight times. A cleaning lady in the Serbian Parliament has 16-17 000 salaries, and a cleaning lady in certain agencies has 7-8 times more. How is that possible? And one is a state organ and the other is a state organ. That's possible because you allow it. The position of the SRS has been clear and we've been telling you for years. Any revenue obtained by any agency in the system of its own services is State revenue. It goes into the budget and through the financial plan, each agency's income and expenditure are planned. Then you have a balance and you have one legal system that works and works. Otherwise, you've got everything you've got. Then we have a situation that individual agencies, each worker goes to two expert consultations, has various kinds of schooling, have holidays, have winters, have paid vacations, and who knows what they have in relation to others, and especially, and even the ministry. What's the difference between profit in the assembly and the ministry? It almost makes no difference. But between institutions that are monopolies in that, and I'm talking about regulatory bodies, there's an incredible difference -- two, three, five, eight, ten times. How is that possible? Why would you allow that? It's harmful and we insist that you change those things. Otherwise, I call on citizens to change the situation because it's mature. Now it is clear to every citizen after all our appeals, suggestions, objections, complaints that it must be changed. When we talk about the position in the energy sector, we need to point out the lack of government and the lack of government. The last serious energy facility in the energy system was built 30-35 years ago. Then we know what's going on. If in 30-35 years this country has not found the opportunity to build a new energy system, a new thermal power plant, a larger thermopower plant, then we see how much this country cares about the energy system. There's nothing to worry about. It's a system that's a broken system and only happiness saves us that we have natural resources that we can meet some of our needs. On the other hand, we have irrationality and we have enormous spending, first of all, in state institutions. Lights up and up, it's wasted, it's scattered, etc. There's no responsible access to energy, no rational energy consumption, we're wasting it, and we're throwing it away. Our resources are limited and we must adapt our policy. Above all, it's the government and the government's task. What was done in that direction? We have the Energy Efficiency Agency. Maybe the last year something's been moving, but that agency's been there for six or seven years. Did the state put that agency on its feet, give it certain powers laid down by law? Did she insist on asking her to make an account? As the Energy Agency submitted its financial plan, the Agency for Energy Efficiency and other agencies had to submit a financial plan to control, through the financial plan, through a report on the implementation of the final account for the past year, monitor and analyse, etc. Each institution must account at the beginning of the year and take a certain position. You're not looking for a financial plan for the coming year, you're not looking for a final bill for the previous year, you're not looking for a report, etc. It's a mess that can't do any good to this country. Regulatory bodies operating in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia are organised in a different way and therefore we have these relations and practices that are very bad. Some agencies have been established by this congregation through a certain law. Other agencies have been formed through certain government activities. The third agencies were re-established through the third form, etc. It's a heterogeneous approach where we don't have a bonification and we can't have a relationship. The attitude of the SRS is to change this state. This situation is very bad. Here, we mentioned about this agency, about the Energy Efficiency Agency and through others. We constantly point to the problem of the work of regulatory bodies, however, there is no help. The elections are coming, and that's why we call on voters to take care of who they vote for. I think we've talked enough, we've pointed enough, we've offered enough solutions, no matter what you tell us -- here, the opposition has no solution. We have a solution and, in particular, when we come to power, we will change the funding system in agencies, equalize the level of profit in each agency, and we will abolish certain agencies, but certain agencies that have to exist and they must have the same profits, the same material incomes, the same material expenditures and immaterial expenditures. It can't all happen what we have in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64662	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4), Article 96 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with a order of MPs, submitted by the MPs of the SRS. I give my word to the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, we know well that these agencies, which Mr. Buha spoke of earlier, are agencies created by the government, or agencies created in one artificial way, so that we can actually say again under one of your patrons -- here, it's all made for the EU. We are well aware that Serbia is the signator of a contract to establish a Southeast European Energy Community and is accordingly required to homogenise the legislative framework with EU directives. I ask you, does this EU have to or is it the one that will regulate the energy balance system, as my colleague Buha said, and the legal regulation needed to exist in the functioning of the energy system, or in the functioning of any agency, not just the Energy Agency, and the establishment of an energy efficiency agency? But unfortunately, we must honestly say, when we talked about these agencies two or three months ago, there were words where we mentioned and where we said about certain negativity related to the functioning of these agencies. It seems to me that all three agencies are actually set up to be able to function politically similar, i.e. to be able to monitor certain money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. to manipulate the money to cover certain negativeities of your work. Because this area of energy, in fact, is, we must honestly say, a fatal area to be discussed, which should be discussed, as you yourself know, so this energy potential, which is present in Serbia, so we see what kind of abuses have happened in Kolubara. Was that really supposed to be discussed or was the Agency supposed to talk about energy? It's been around for a long time, here, for 10 years, and perhaps a wider, present problem that manifests itself today with regard to energy, which is very little investment in energy potentials. We want to join the EU system. Do you know how much the EU imports energy today, whether it is related to gasification, whether it is related to the electricity system? All of this shows the weakness of the ruling elite, which has been in fact dealing with the imports of energy, and not in fact with certain incentives, individual incentives. When I say individual, I mean the Republic Government, I mean the government's leadership, which in 2000, with the help of tortured miners, came to power, that DOS came to power. That's when he used it, and he's been taking advantage of the bad position all the time. Nothing has changed since that year in 2000, in some positive trend, that the workers in Energy have felt some improvement, at least as far as the thermal power plants are concerned, about the mines. Please, it's not the same to push the button and deal with the production of electricity. It is not the same as those that produce electricity or raw materials, which are miners in low-paid mines, and a system that is even worse. It is very little to invest in these mines. A whole series of these problems that are present today, and there are also problems that are present and are talking about the potential for the largest energy, where the most electricity is used today, unfortunately, in Serbia. What's it used for? Because the industry is not in Serbia at all today, it has stopped functioning. After the peto-octobaric revolution, all the great giants were extinguished, i.e. the great potential of electricity consumption. What happens next? It happens that with a certain potential of credit, what Mr. Buha said, you're trying to wash the system every year, that when you show how much that energy balance is, how much it's spent in energy production, you're trying to hide or somehow fakely introduce it. Serbia is a major importer of electricity, unfortunately. We keep talking about how much potential we have for energy today. I'll try to show you now how much production is, unfortunately, production. In observing the consumer sector, the highest participation in the final electricity consumption, we have a collective view of agriculture and public utility sectors, with a total share of about 40%, while industry is only 34%. Traffic is in consumption about 36%. What's he saying? In the end, you want to show or prove that in the developed world electricity consumption, that the price of electricity used in households and industry is the smallest among us in all countries in Europe. That's not true. I can say that, in terms of GDP or in terms of receiving our citizens, these are the highest prices in Europe. What Mr. Buha was saying is, what is the percentage of today's pensioners who are able to pay for electricity? We have to say that they paid the most for electricity, because they first, what they take in retirement, they pay first, so what's left over after that, but that's why they're starving the most. That's the problem. The most social structure, the social map that is today, unfortunately, which you only show during the election with that bag when you blow up in villages or cities, from household to household, to double-cross citizens how much you think of them for a kilo of oil or a kilo of sugar, or one kilo of detergent. It is, in fact, your concern for the citizens, but not at the time when you are in power, when you should have made a plan and a program of functioning, both in economic and political terms today in the Republic of Serbia. But it doesn't work at all because individuals today rule, because today the tycoons rule Serbia. Today, what is most painful, those who have done the most to this country and who have singled out the most of their personal income, and these are workers, peasants and pensioners, today they are the biggest orphans, because the middle-class, unfortunately, is gone. Today, Serbia is ruled by tycoons who, unfortunately, have come through black funds, or through the black market, have come to power, because during your reign they have laundered money by buying large businesses and objects that unfortunately don't work today, because they only served them to wash away their stolen money that during your reigns have managed to apply it in this criminal way, that is, to abuse it. And this great fight against corruption and crime, it is most expressed in the area of energy, because we well know that the greatest criminals in energy potential, the people who exported electricity, who were also connected with the internal tycoons, as it was stopped by their re-examination of Hamovic, Lazarevic, to show or prove their innocence here in the Assembly, that is, by calling certain MPs at the time that one body worked, and at the head of that body was Aleksandar Vukic. And finally, when it was going to come to the final result, to determine the abuse of these two, that body eventually stopped working, but we don't know how it stopped working. So, Alexander Vukic is normal, and his elite around him, they took the money, because today they take money from these people so they can finance their political option, or show the citizens how much they care about them, because their suits are certainly more valuable than the hectares of the country in Machva or Posavina, or Vojvodina. These are people who, with great incomes today, are trying to have compassion or one mourner over these martyrs today, who are poorly living in Serbia, workers of peasants and pensioners. They try to fool them so they can say tomorrow, we are the political option that will think about you tomorrow, that is, we will reform in any part, whether in that part that is surely the most vital, and that part is the most vital part about their pocket, for their income. But unfortunately, that's not gonna happen. These people, who never thought, will never think of the citizens of Serbia or Serbia themselves, care about their profits, their capital, they care about listening to Brussels and Washington, obeying their orders. It is the alternative political party that says that Europe has no alternative, that Europe which unfortunately has failed and that Europe that dictates the pace and which now dictates Serbia with the help of Tadic and with the assistance of the regime that should form power together tomorrow, which is the regime of Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic with Boris Tadic. That should wait for Serbia today, what is most painful. You are well aware that the SRS is seeking to join the EU, i.e. to stop the deployment of Serbia, the SRS is pushing to stop this trend of citizens' poverty and their destruction. The SRS advocates the national echo, insists on preserving every threshold, every family, to preserve Serbia within the borders it has been in before. So, know that what you're predicting with this agency, it's a pure destruction of energy potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64664	National MP Goran Mihajlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64665	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. To get a more complete picture of what we are discussing today, I would like to remind you that some half a year ago, in July, in this house, we adopted a bill on energy, which is known to be one of the fundamental laws of the state of Serbia, because it deals with production, distribution and regulation of energy and energy markets in the Republic of Serbia. Among other things, under this law, the fifth chapter members of the 36th to 51st deal with the so-called The Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia, which is scheduled to be established as one regulatory body to improve and control this highly sensitive and delicate market. We are all familiar with the fact that the level of economic development of a country and the standard of living of its citizens depend precisely on energy and the energy sector, so it is understandable why this law then had such great publicity in public. What is interesting today, we within the 19th agenda have a proposal for a decision to agree on the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2011. If this were December 2010, so to discuss it, it would be logical, but I really don't understand how at the end of the calendar year 2011 we can even discuss the financial plan for that year. I will remind the citizens of Serbia that this is not the first time. When we recently discussed the defence plan of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, it was the same case, so our authorised representative then Mr Bozidar Delic asked Minister Sutanovac – what if, God forbid, someone attacked Serbia this year, by which we would defend ourselves and defend ourselves? Something quite similar is happening today. We need to talk about the financial plan for the year that has already passed. Obviously anything is possible, so today we're discussing something retroactive, which in a healthy logic shouldn't be. Otherwise, the responsibilities of the Energy Agency are defined by Articles 46 and 47. The Energy Act. I will remind the citizens of Serbia, among other things, that it has the task to adopt methodologies to determine the price of electricity and natural gas, and to set the price of access to the gas transmission and distribution system, so it makes various rules and regulations on the regulation of this area, then issues and withdraws licences to those involved in the energy sector, and also gives consent to different regulations in the energy sector. This agency has great powers, and that's what's dangerous. We have also criticised the powers that the law has given to this agency, because we ourselves know that the energy market, the market where major machinations and abuses occur. Let's just think of "Colubare" and recent affairs. Surely the creators of this law have come from a simple logic: it is easier to bribe a few people in the Agency than perhaps the entire ministry. That is why we reiterate that these powers are too great, because the agency since 1 January 2012, as Mr. Buha has been our authorised representative and said - should take over all competences in the energy sector, and we are sure that it is still not up to the material organisational staff to perform such large and delicate tasks. Furthermore, the position of the SRS is that agencies are something that is unnecessary and excessive at all because, here, specifically here in the energy sector, we have the Energy Agency, and we have the Energy Efficiency Monitoring Agency. Why we need to duplicate functions and just increase the administration, because I'm going to remind you of one thing. The former SFRY had six southern republics and 28 000 people in the state administration, and then there were over 20, 22 million inhabitants, and now Serbia with seven - eight million inhabitants, already has 29,000 people in the public sector. Well, then figure out for yourself what Serbia is at this point a ship that is constantly overcrowding and which, if it continues like this, will have to sink. But, of course, we won't let that happen, we'll be pushing for the abolition of these agencies, because I'm only going to tell you one example, that in Germany, which the current government likes to point out often as an EU locomotive, there are only six such agencies in the Czech Republic, Slovakia 11, and since the first day these agencies have been established they have been the subject of public opinion criticism. What if in our situation they had 131 agencies, so that would be something that's unimaginable to common sense. Furthermore, I would like to point out something else, draw attention to the citizens of Serbia, namely, this agency has never dealt with the energy sector at KIM before. I'll tell you, in Kosovo, huge mineral wealth is, above all, estimated by the World Bank to be about 13 and a half billion euros, only lignite, and then there are about 50 million tons of lead and zinc. We all know what a giant Blink was in European and world proportions. Well, then boxy reserves close to two million tons. People from this agency have never made some kind of cross-section of the state of mining wealth in Kosovo and Metohija. And you see as a member of the Assembly Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, I intend to ask that question to someone from the Ministry of Kosovo from the Government of Serbia at the Committee meetings, but you saw five or six times in a row we come to the Committee meetings there is not one representative from the Government as it is today, and you see that the empty space has been reserved for the representatives of the Government, and it simply seems that no one is concerned with this issue that these huge reserves in Kosovo and Metohija are at large. But, of course, it won't be like that for centuries, it will be the end of this government's mandate, and when the non-patriotic forces in Serbia come to power, we will also be able to raise the question of the mining wealth of Kosovo and Metohija and we will find the best way to resolve it and permanently in the interests of all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64666	I give my word to the People's MP, Momchil Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64667	Gentlemen, MPs, we today have the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2011 and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2012. It was logical that the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2011 was at the beginning of 2011, but the gentlemen of the ruling majority are all possible. You gentlemen of the ruling majority must know that energy is the most important branch for the development of our economy. You are with this establishment of this agency, destroying a set of energy systems, our country's system. You've given these agencies great authority. They work in parties, not professional people. And these agencies serve you only to hire party colleagues, friends and relatives. The Agency for Energy under this Energy Act, which we have recently passed, has great powers and the greatest powers. She makes proposals to the ministry, and the ministry gives it to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly adopts it all. The energy agency, which is most important for Serbian citizens, sets electricity prices and natural gas prices. The Energy Agency must respond to citizens of Serbia, which is the exact price of electricity per kilowatt hour. We're the only country in the world where we have these zones, blue, red, green. There should be a special expert here to know what the real price is, the price of electricity, and when it comes to citizens at the end of the month to know it's being calculated. Why doesn't that agency come out when you've already formed and not told one citizen. How can it be electricity consumption and 2,000 dinars and 72 thousand dinars if they're hacked into some zones? Where do we have those zones? Just here with you. You see here we've been having amazing things lately about the price of gas. Once again, the energy agency has set the price of gas. I apologize to my party colleagues but the real price of gas, gentlemen, is 63 dinar per metre cubic. That's a 33% increase. Who cheated on the citizens? Math is a simple thing, so calculate this and you'll see. You said 10%, take the last bills all citizens. Who took part in that? Agency. What was the price of gas when you told the citizens? With 23 dinars per meter of cubic, four and a half years ago, five. This is the best for heating, the cheapest and the citizens took loans, borrowed themselves, bought boilers, equipment, all and after three, four years, the citizens return to the stoves and wood. Where do we live? I'm going to give you an example of what the Energy Agency is doing with gas distribution in Kruševec. We had a company that was the strategic partner of the town of Kruševec, Technology-Energy. The company was sold to Vojin Lazarevic's brother, at what cost. We can't get an answer. It was all part of the Energy Agency, and Brother Vojin Lazarevic gave her the name "Rasina Gas" once again only sold the distribution network three times at a higher price and what is here. So, mafia, crime. We can't get an answer for six, seven months, and it's all Serbian gas. And then there's the problem, we have 360 tenants in Kruševec where their license to distribute and sell heat was given by the Energy Agency. She denied the company's "Energo macho" to continue to deal with it because she didn't pay a debt of two and a half million dinars. The problem is, and this is from the Energy Agency, the town of Kruševac, the city's government, because the owner who sold heat until yesterday is said to have to give someone 70,000 euros to release gas to the citizens and to keep them warm. There are 360 residents, which is about 1,600 people, and they have been freezing in the town of Kruševec for a little less than three months. What's the matter? The Energy Agency, which is involved in all of this. I'd like to ask another question - what did the Energy Agency do with what happened in Colubara? Is there anyone who belongs to the ruling majority who cares? That's what the Agency needs to take out Serbian citizens, to know what's going on. I once said, it's gonna be like some football guys have their own badgers in the Colubara. There are many of you sitting in that government, that's for sure. But time is passing quickly and this will be over in three or four months, everything will be known. And those whom you protect, and whom you will not say publicly, all will be revealed. It's about the fact that someone doesn't know how to pronounce the name of Savievich, that he cares about it and that's it, or Ken, what do you call him? But he's not here alone. Someone put him there. You know who he is. Why don't you shut up? All this will be learned very quickly in the election campaign. Once again, I ask you to explain to the citizens of Serbia the real price of electricity and the real price of gas. That's what this agency you've formed is for, not for your party colleagues, friends and relatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64668	National MP Dusan Maric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64669	Ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about the draft decision on granting consent to the Financial Business Plan of the Energy Agency for the current year 2011. In my opinion, with the proposal for this decision, there would be nothing controversial, but only on one condition – that today is December 2010. However, on 20 December 2011, on the second day of St. Nicholas, 10 days before the end of 2011, we get the adoption of a plan for the financial operations of a state body for the year that has passed. In order for the circus to be complete, I have a constructive proposal – that the government withdraws the proposal of this decision, wait another 10-15 days, to pass the New Year's and Christmas holidays, and then get together nicely and to finish our work at one cost, and at the same time adopt the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2011 and report on the implementation of this plan, but to make sure that the plan is still on the agenda before the report itself. There are a few very important questions here. First of all, why hasn't the National Assembly discussed this decision before? Secondly, a much more important question, on what basis, on what document did the Energy Agency operate in the current year, 2011? This also raises the question of what about the financial plans, and even more about the reports on the implementation of other agencies, offices, committees, etc., there are more than 130? The fourth question – is it even possible what would happen if a public enterprise from the interior, from Surdulica, from the Great Plan, from Sremski Karlovac, met without a financial business plan in December 2011? And the most important question – could the Agency have answered its obligations under the Law on Energy of the Republic of Serbia without a financial plan for business? In order for the citizens to understand the importance of this problem, I will quote Article 46. The Energy Act, which speaks of the Agency's affairs. Since there are about 70-80 duties here, I will read only the most important and really important: "The Agency's jobs. The Agency shall carry out the following tasks: it shall adopt methodologies for determining the price of electricity for public supply; determination of the price of natural gas for public supply; determination of the price of access to the electricity transmission system; determination of the price of the electricity distribution system; determination of the price of the natural gas transport system; determination of the price of access to the natural gas distribution system. "It's really hard to determine what's more important than this. It is all decided by the state republican authority which 20. December 2011 welcomes without a financial business plan. Next, determining the costs of joining the electricity transmission and distribution system. Determination of the costs of connection to the natural transport and distribution system from the issue of various licences, the rule on the operation of the natural gas storage system, the plan for the development of the transmission and distribution system of electricity. Otherwise, the adoption of the Financial Plan is referred to in Article 48. The Energy Act, and now I'm going to quote Section 5. "If the annual account of the Agency's revenue and expenditure determines that the total revenue generated by the Agency is greater than the total expenditure incurred, the difference in funds is transferred to the financial plan as revenue for the following year, with sources and revenue levels being harmonised for the coming year with the real costs of the Agency for the year." We have no idea if the Agency made any revenue in the last year and last year, whether it had any expenses, let alone knowing what the real costs of the Agency were. Now one question is raised – on what basis is this financial plan for the next, 2012? Under the law, it could not be made on the basis of Article 48 without a 2011 business report, and the previous report could not be made, it is not logical to make it without the existence of a financial plan. So, we had to have a financial plan for this year, we had to look at this financial plan, we had to look at the report on the implementation of that financial plan, and only on the basis of this report could the Agency create a financial business plan for 2012. Finally, I will show you and the citizens of Serbia what you get when you try to get closer to the work of this Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia. You get the following paper: The Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia, authorities and republican organisations - The Company of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia has not published complete information on its work, as well as information on its products and services. Ask this company for more information, contact it via contact form or see other companies in the work of state authorities and republican agencies. So, if you want to get closer to the work of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia, then you need to ask the neighbors, the state authorities and the republican agencies. Now, just to make sure you go to the right neighbor, who has any idea what this agency's doing. To be happy, says: web address – inaccessible, working time – not available, date of establishment – not available, location – Terrace 5/5 Belgrade, Stari Grad, category – general information, gaps in empty, work – state authorities and republican agencies, personal map – Republika Srpska owned by Boris Tadic and DS, fax – unreachable, info, telephone – unreachable, payment cards – not available. The Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia. Every comment is out of date. Any expectation of the responsibility and efficiency of this agency is a pure illusion. I remind you that we in the SRS voted against the adoption of the Energy Act, against the establishment of this Agency, and now it shows how right we were. 'Because of all this, I propose that the government withdraw these two decisions from the procedure, and that the Serbian Government prepares the National Assembly as soon as possible to deliver a new energy law, which will not provide for the existence of the Energy Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64670	Eight minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Vladan Jeremic, and he is the last to be reported on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64671	Thank you. Since the public who is following our work now has definitely become clear that we are actually giving consent, i.e. we are adopting the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2011, today for ten days before the arrival of 2012, then it is certain that no general finding should be surprised, that energy efficiency in Serbia is unsatisfactory, and the level of rationality in energy consumption is very low. What is evident is that energy efficiency and can also need to be improved in segments of production and transmission of electricity distribution, and the same applies to heat energy. However, what is necessary throughout this story is that certainly the state creates a favourable environment for improving energy efficiency through subsidies, new forms of funding, public and private sector partnerships projects, for example. Introducing the savings funding model. Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, does not spend much primary energy per capita, which is true for the will and result of poor industrial development, but remains the problem of energy efficiency, which is otherwise measured by energy intensity or specific energy consumption per unit of newly created value. Our country is lagging behind on this basis in terms of the most developed countries even up to five times. For example, when it comes to countries in the environment, Croatia has an energy efficiency index of 0.45, BiH 0.6, Romania 0.4, etc. It is important that this indicator of Serbia's energy intensity is reduced, in order for the economy to become more competitive, hence, and the standard of citizens, of course, is also being given a lot of time and attention, which is to make the environment cleaner. What the world's experiences show is that the most significant measure of rational energy consumption is its price, which at this point, at least when it comes to electricity, is detimulative in terms of consumer motivation, but also why not tell the manufacturer for the application of energy efficiency measures. So, for the safe, safe and quality supply of energy to all consumers, it is necessary to create an efficient, competitive financial sustainable energy sector in a country that should probably also encourage competition in the market and thus contribute to what is our goal as a society and countries as a whole, which is to improve energy efficiency and renewable energy and sustainable development of the environment. What is a fact is that reliable and secure energy supply is one of the basic preconditions of economic development, and based on analytical data, it is easy to conclude that the energy sector in the Republic of Serbia is characterised by a number of problems that can be limiting the factors of further economic development. In doing so, it is thought of a high level of energy import dependence with a trend of further growth, then basic energy indicators not only exceed standards, but are worse than most countries in the region. The state of infrastructure capacity is inadequate. The level of business efficiency of energy businesses is also unsatisfactory. It is necessary to take a number of concrete measures and activities, and this could, for example, be done to remove these price distributors in energy, to introduce the component, to protect socially endangered energy consumers, to implement the reorganisation of energy entities, etc. What may be missing at this point in this legal regulation, perhaps most of all, is the adoption of this law on rational use of energy and all that would follow, and this means removing administrative barriers, adopting various incentives to stimulate investment in energy projects, etc. This specifically refers to those based on renewable energy sources. The main problem with all the strategies so far, if this can be called, is that the energy sector is largely placed on some technical opportunities to meet energy needs. This left out, of course, what is much more important, which is the economic-financial effect of such solutions, and the basic prerequisite for improving energy efficiency is precisely, I repeat, the establishment of a real parity of energy prices, primarily electricity, etc. Since social problems can no longer be solved only at a low price, it is also necessary to introduce that economic category of electricity price, which would include a support programme for that category of socially endangered consumers, which, unfortunately, are now more and more in Serbia. Since there is no uniformly accepted definition in practice, i.e. the criteria for determining the category, which I have mentioned, of socially endangered consumers, one of the priorities is the setting of criteria, based on the fact that possible forms of protection and consumer category are sought. What this essential, true strategy should do is take several technical and organisational measures, such as establishing a state of energy database in all sectors of consumption, and in industry, transport, households, etc. Then, making a single energy audit for those major energy consumers in the industry sector, so as not to face some of the things that are present in this regard and training people who should deal with this problem in some future period. What is evident is that these energy issues are becoming more and more relevant from day to day. Energy strategies gain increasing importance and represent an important segment of each country's policy. Trends, rising energy prices, increasing energy consumption of all kinds, exhausting fossil fuel reserves and gas missions created by the greenhouse effect, impact on the world climate, environmental status in general, gas supply problems etc., are just some of the facts that contribute to this. It is very important that the creation of this energy policy starts already from some local level, i.e. to define the objectives that this policy should have, to approach systematically. Hence, I repeat, again, it is extremely important to define all of this precisely, to clearly set a framework for these plans, which is actually the goal of increasing energy efficiency. It is one complex procedure, but I repeat again, it is an extremely important segment of every country. Furthermore, one reason to advocate that energy efficiency, while most often mentioned, is to achieve financial savings. Another reason is the possibility of reducing energy dependence on the economy. That, after all, can be achieved precisely by this rational use of energy. The third reason is the need to avoid dramatically increasing the effects of the glass garden. The fourth is that it can be viewed as part of a general change in philosophy in terms of sustainability in this story. All sources, not only energy, must be used rationally, have to be balanced, and the meaningful use of energy cannot be improved without commercial investment. When it comes to them, of course, all commercial institutions do not always have an interest in improving energy efficiency. Given the dynamic technological development, the technology available today, will certainly be replaced by some more modern, more efficient and cheaper technological solution, and investing in improving efficiency, enabling a better overview of the technology market, applying more technology, which could become a key advantage. On the contrary, the investment carries an increased risk that competitors, by applying more advanced technology, before the investment is paid, investments in energy efficiency, accordingly, will be burdened by increasing their price compared to some investments concerning capacity expansion. But it depends essentially on what I call it, a public policy that all these shortcomings and imperfections can be removed from the market. To conclude, what is now an existing legal framework is not binding enough when it comes to increasing energy efficiency in energy consumption sectors. The state, if it truly has an honest intention, must, in the coming period, regulate and regulate the rational use of energy in order to enable the realisation of these identified priority technical measures, political, economic, environmental reasons and, of course, the need for increasing use of existing energy resources, would be monitored by a more rapid industrial development of Serbia. Serbia could develop these new energy sources, thereby increasing energy efficiency levels. Of course, in order to achieve one country's energy stability, its sustainable development, energy efficiency, both production and all sectors of consumption need to be improved. It must be a lasting process, if we really want to come to a group of these prosperous countries. So, one really meaningful strategy is necessary, because solutions that are not based on sustainability, on some longer deadline, are practically not legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-20-0.u64672	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is 11 minutes and 20 seconds. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? If so, please sign into the electronic system. No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude a joint Single Search on a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2011 and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2012. This concludes our work today. We continue our work tomorrow, December 21st at 10:00 p.m., on the principle debate on the Constitutional Court Bill, after which we will move to a search in detail on the agenda points for which we have already carried out a principled search. I thank you all. I'll see you tomorrow, December 21st at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I would like to conclude that the sittings are attended by 77 MPs, and in order to determine the number of MPs who put their parliamentary cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system, please do so in order to determine how many Members of Parliament have been established in the electronic system, and on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which prescribe that at least 84 Members present in the electronic system must be in the hall in order to begin our work. I find that the electronic system has established that there are 85 MPs in the hall, that there is also another number of MPs in the hall and that there are conditions needed for the work and start of the session of the National Assembly. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that it has been prevented from attending the sittings of the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic and the president of the National Assembly of Ms Slavica Djukic – Dejanovic. In agreement with Article 90(1), I would also inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Đukić – Dejanovic, besides the representative of Proposer Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, called for the meeting to be attended by Slobodan Homen - State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Jovan Ćosic - Head of Justice Zlatko Petrović – Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and Bozidar Blagojevic – an independent adviser at the Ministry of Justice. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the 21st point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as to be allocated to MPs' groups by a proportion of MPs of individual MPs, and this: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs, on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The application for a word shall be open until the opening of a principle or joint principled single search of certain points or agenda points, so I ask that all those who have not yet done so deliver a list of names and last names of MPs who wish to participate in the debate in principle. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Djordje Milicevic, MP group SPS - JS; MP Zoran Krasic, MP. If any of the other parliamentary groups appoints one of their members to be authorised to represent them during the debate, please inform us of this, so that we can inform the National Assembly. Before I open the agenda, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I shall give the following notice. Today's working day will pass, following the opening of the debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Constitutional Court Act, after the end of the debate, or the conclusion of the debate today, we will open discussions in particular on which the Assembly has decided to be the subject of a joint principled review and this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Single Election List Act. The debate in particular will be open. When the debate is concluded in particular on this draft law amending and supplementing the Single Election List Act, we will also open a discussion in detail on the Proposal for a Law on Cinematography and the conclusion of the debate in particular on this bill, we will complete our work for today. Of course, if necessary, on the basis of article 87, we will also work after 18.00 hours, and until the debate is concluded in particular on the draft law on cinematography. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposing minister, Minister Snezana Malovic, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Snezana Malović.
