ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54984	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that there are 87 MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Sasa Dujovic and Mladen Grujic. We move to the 11-15th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS, the summary list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Council for Culture, the summary list of candidates for members of the National Consultative Council, the proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education and the Proposal for a DECISION on the termination of the act of the Commission on PRIORITY (Common Single Search) of the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on points 11 to 15 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint uniform review, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 193, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, to be distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, belong one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; to the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; to the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that according to these points of the parliamentary group's agenda, Esad Djudjevic's parliamentary group of minorities; Miletic Mihajlovic the SPS-JS parliamentary group; Svetlana Stojanovic the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica; Gorica Mojovic the ZES parliamentary group. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS, a summary list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Council for Culture, a summary list of candidates for members of the National Education Council, a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education and a proposal for a decision on the termination of the function of a member of the Committee on Charter of Values. Before I ask the promoter if he wants to explain the proposal, I set a break until 12.00 hours, since the Committee on European Integration has organised a public hearing on the situation of refugees, internally displaced persons, exiled persons, returnees and asylum seekers. We'll be in the O.R. one for work. The interest of the MPs is great. In accordance with Article 87, from 12.00 hours we will work until all these hearing points are completed in principle, so tomorrow we will move to work in particular. This will also be the only break for today. [[After break – 12.00.]] There aren't many of us, but as we agreed, we'll continue to work at the session I opened this morning. Do the committee's representatives and rapporteurs, MPs Milan Vukkovic, Jelena Trivan and Zoran Shami, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? First of all, I shall inform that, in accordance with Article 39(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the SRS parliamentary group, held in the debate on the third group of the 4th session of the first regular session of the RS National Assembly in 2011. MP Esad Djudjevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54986	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my special honor to present several views of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities and, in particular, the Bosniak List in this united principle debate on several points of vital importance, especially for members and representatives of minority peoples in our country. First of all, I would give strong support to candidates who are the expression of the will of legal promoters of national larger minorities. It is about candidates for members of the National Council for Culture, Mr. Karol Vicek and Muhedin Fijuljanin, who are common proposals of all national larger minorities. In addition, it is about prominent figures in the order of the Hungarian and Bosniak people, who each in their area made a great contribution not only to the culture of their peoples, but to the common culture of our country, and I would say wider. Karol Viček was born on 21 August 1941 in Novi Sad, a film director and screenwriter, realised about 15 documentary and three feature films, he won several significant awards, such as "Bronzana Arena" for directorship and "Great Golden Arena" in Pula. For her creative work, the Hungarian government awarded him the "Golden Butterfly" in 96 for successful work in Hungarian and world film. His feature and documentary films, shows from education and culture, and today are often replayed on our televisions and represent the lasting values of our cultural heritage. Muhedin Fijuljanin was born on July 13th 1965 in Sjenica, a journalist and publicist. He published over 50 works in the fields of human and minority rights, history and culture of the Sanjah Bosniaks. One of the restorers of the cultural society Bosnjak Sandzak "Renaissance", founder and first editor-in-chief of the journal "Bosnjačka Word", editor-in-chief of the weekly "Sandzačka novine", head of cultural and information portfolio in the Bosniak National Council, author of capital monograph "Sandzački Bosnjaki", won the highest recognition for the contribution to Bosniak culture and the affirmation of the multiethnic tradition of Sandzak, the medal "Rift Burdževic Trso". Also, I would support candidates from a common list of traditional churches and religious communities for members of the National Educational Council, Mr Andrija Kopilic and Muhamed Efendija Jusufspahic. I believe they will contribute to the work of this significant educational body as religious and theological authority. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, the selection of these figures from the ranks of minority representatives for members of the National Council for Culture, i.e. the National Educational Council, will be, I am convinced, a strong contribution to the affirmation of multiethnic and multicultural development of culture and education in the Republic of Serbia and to the construction of a new concept in line with EU standards, contrary to the current monoethnically based model of strategy in these areas, the most important for the preservation and improvement of the national identity of each nation. I would take the opportunity to draw attention again to the difficult and unacceptable position of Bosniak cultural heritage, especially in Novi Pazar, as well as in the whole of Sandzak. Namely, the Government and the Resort Ministry, as well as other competent institutions in this country, pay insufficient attention to the protection and revitalisation of the cultural, material and immaterial heritage of the Sanjay Bosniaks as an indigenous people in this area. This cultural heritage has been crumbling for years and decades because, among other reasons, the opposite of the Constitution and international standards as Islamic, Turkish or Oriental, not as Bosniak cultural heritage has been defined in different periods and under different influences, which we have been persistently asking the competent institutions for years. Such a definition so far allows for and somewhat 'legimitize' the state's view as a relationship to something foreign and imported. The solution to this problem is the establishment of a institute for the culture of the Sanjah Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia, which all other minorities, i.e. the Hungarian national communities, still have. The Elaborate on the establishment of a institute for the culture of the Sanjay Bosniaks has been in place for a long time with the Resolute Ministry, and the alibi for its non-basement is required in a general inadmissible process of stopping and disabling the implementation of the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights. I think this inadmissible approach must be interrupted because the Constitution, laws and standards of the EU must also apply to members of the Bosniak people and the process of achieving the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights for the Sanjak Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia must continue. I believe that this is not only in the interest of members of the Bosniak people but also of the state itself, because this narrows down space for every kind of manipulation and generation of political instability and crisis in Sandzak, in which the Bosniak List will in no way participate. On the contrary, we offer a solution and do not want to be part of the problem, but part of the solution. In the area of education, which is also the topic of today's debate, in accordance with Articles 75 and 79. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 13. Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, Article 9. The law on the foundations of the education and education system and other laws has not been established by the constitution and the law guaranteeing the right to education in the Bosnian language as the native language of the Sanjah Bosniaks. The introduction of this right in practice was reduced to a Bosnian course with elements of national culture in primary schools in Novi Pazar, Tutina, Sjenica and only one school in Prijepolje, in the rank of an election course. In addition to the fact that there has been a joint working group of representatives of the Bosniak National Council and the Ministry of Education and Development, as a consequence of this joint work, the education model for the Sanjak Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia as a professional laboratory on the basis of which the right to education in the Serbian native language would be exercised, its application was lost by the Ministry of Education, which was delivered by the draft on 11 November 2009, immediately after the adoption of the National Minority Councils Act. All this material, numerous letters and parliamentary questions and other adequate contributions are in the process of the Guardian of Citizens for stopping and disabling the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights and freedoms. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia will initiate proceedings these days, in accordance with Article 10(1), paragraph 12. A law on national councils of national minorities, due to a legally and factually based assessment that there has been a violation of the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights and freedom of members of the Bosniak national community in the Republic of Serbia. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to express once again my firm personal confidence and the stance of the Bosniak List, including the definition of a parliamentary group of minorities in this high home, that these problems are possible in the institutions of the system and in the process of European integration of our country, which is why the Bosniak List supports and participates in this government. Finally, I call on you to support candidates from the minority nations for members of the National Council for Culture, i.e. the National Educational Council, in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54987	I give my word to MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54988	President-in-Office, working presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I will present some views concerning the points we are working on here today, but above all, the selection of national cultural councils and higher education. The obligation to choose these significant bodies stems from the laws we have discussed here and passed. Therefore, the choice of the National Educational Council stems from the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the National Council on Culture under the Law on Culture and the Law on Higher Education requires the establishment of a Higher Education Council. So it's very important bodies that have a significant role in education at certain levels and in the field of culture. From what we've received in the material, we see that authorized representatives have made their proposals. These proposals have been discussed on resolution committees here in the National Assembly and are timely for consideration, as we do today. So one procedure has been implemented in accordance with the law, and we have no doubt that in the voting day we will certainly get new compositions of these councils, which are very important for further functioning of both education and cultural areas. I want to say that, in fact, in this period, in transition to say, in this fast walk of what is the practice so far or until 2000, the change in ownership structure, change or reform in social areas, perhaps some moves that have not been sufficiently measured, have not been calculated in the best possible way, some assessments have not been carried out, so that, in fact, in that period, such mistakes that we can hardly correct have been made, and this has happened in the privatisation area, but it has also happened in these social activities and areas, where it was also necessary to implement certain reforms. So it was done in the field of education, where we had that we had adopted some programs that entered the teaching process, which may not have been structured in the best possible way. The question is under question: Civil education, which may need to be reassessed in software and content, which would certainly make us as a society and as a state more able to hold to what our specificities are in the Republic of Serbia, which is our tradition, which is our culture and history, of course respecting all those values in the wider area of Europe. But I believe that in such reforms that we have done, we have one line of modernism, an easy denial of what is ours and what we should hold, and we may easily accept some content that may have a negative impact on what should be our education and education in the spirit of tradition and history, which we cannot deny. Now I'm talking about the importance, so to speak, of these tips, whose function is very significant and their responsibility is great. We assume that the people who are proposed in these bodies have high and professional and any other integrity and will make a significant contribution to making future decisions rightly measured and framed in what we want as a society and as a state. We also had some contents in the teaching programs, which are quickly engaged, drawn up and entered into programs in the area of history, where not enough great distances have passed, and that these contents are both ideologically and politically colored, which is absolutely unacceptable, because any such colour at this point does not contribute to one stability and one right direction, where we want to be above ideology and above politics, in order to properly educate and educate a young generation. When it comes to culture, the National Council for Culture is certainly significant, culture is a very broad term and does not just mean certain rope content in certain fields of art, etc., but involves, so to speak, everything that is life, work, spheres of life and work, it also sees through everything that is work, activity and the presence of the youngest to the oldest and on that plan really needs to be done in particular. Culture is exhibited and exhibited daily and as a way of acting, and as a relationship to the environment in which we live, and as a relationship to sexes and society, and as a way of finding common language on certain issues and much, much. It's just impossible to count everything that is culture at a given time. I think that this sphere, the National Council for Culture, as a professional advisory body, really needs to come in a very detailed and professional way, to give certain guidelines for finding such a cultural programme that will make progress on the ground of our space, that is, the Republic of Serbia, and in favour of the progress and of all that the culture that is suitable for this space, the European space where we live. We're like a society prone to blue. Many facilities are also offered through public information funds and via electronic media that contribute to the construction of a model of behaviour that is in the small-town spirit and cherishes perhaps even a decadent model, so to speak, a culture that is absolutely unacceptable. We are witnesses of daily such influences, where millions of viewers today, primarily the young world, gathers themselves together with such content, and that we have not enough through these media content that is essentially the right value to talk about and what should be in our field of vision. Some research, the other day we could see, say, that the idols of young people or what is rounding them up are mostly what happens on the estradi. Fortunately, there's a sport or our sports scores of our top athletes made that percentage jump in that direction, which is the real value. But, for example, scientific content or young people, children or young people and students who achieve extraordinary results in world competitions are very little presented, in an insufficiently interesting way, etc., so that the percentage that affects public opinion is very low. For these reasons, we believe that the National Educational Council on Preschool Education and Education issues, then general education and art education, then the National Council on Higher Education and the National Council on Culture are very important bodies to which we should pay significant attention. And of such bodies, in fact, through what is law and through the relevant ministries, but we as the National Assembly should also look to them for very significant and ambitious requirements in order to properly direct all these areas, which will contribute to one spiritual progress as a premise to everything else that implies the general progress of Serbia and its citizens. Our SPS-JS parliamentary group will certainly vote for the adoption of these lists and for the selection of members of these bodies, with the expectation that they will be at the level of the task and will work in favour of the common good.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54989	The word has an MP, Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54990	Dear Members of Parliament, of the six very diverse points of the agenda united in a single debate, such as the election of a member of the Board of Governors of the NB, the selection of members of the National Educational Council or the termination of the function of one member of the Securities Commission, the words "elections" and "members" are the only thing these different areas are thematical compounds. I'm going to say something about choosing the National Cultural Council. The situation in all sectors of our culture is extremely difficult, on the verge of a naked survival. The National Council for Culture, which is elected at this session, will be at the wall of a state indifferent to culture. In implementing a cultural policy that Serbia does not have, it would have to co-operate with the entire government, all its ministries. The situation in the country, not only in culture, is extremely difficult, among other things, because the government's ministries do not cooperate in any area or culture. The Ministry of Culture does not take major steps that could change this difficult situation. Shamefully small budgets allocated to culture, 0.62% of total budget expenditure for 2011, the Ministry of Culture uses to patch up where it leaks, draws some marketing moves or donates artists to the taste of the government. Cultural separations are a serious obstacle to systemic change. The long-prepared and countless times amended Culture Act, finally adopted in 2009, has not solved the accumulated problems, has brought nothing good to Serbian culture, and more or less remains the same or worse. In the debate when adopting this law, DSS MPs spoke exhaustively of the Law on Culture being empty and declarative, but no one wanted to hear it. In the Serbian Parliament, however, there are exclusively arguments or fewer arguments, polite or less polite monologues. There's no discussion and no dialogue. There's nothing to deal with. Why do we feel that the Law on Culture is empty, declarative, and that it does not solve problems? First, this law did not distinguish the general and public interest in culture from the cultural industry. The general and public interest of the state must be protected from the market and financed with dignity. The cultural industry, as well as other industries, is obliged to create favourable conditions for development. Then, the Law on Culture did not create the basic assumptions that the institutions of culture perform the activities for which they were founded. The big news of the law is that cultural institutions are funded on the basis of projects they offer, and whose justification is arbitrarily assessed by the Ministry of Culture. If there are no projects that the minister likes or has no means to fund good projects, there is no such cultural activity either. The Council, which we are choosing late at this session, was announced as its most significant newspaper, designed as "a professional advisory body, whose task is to provide permanent support for the preservation, development and expansion of culture", was so important to the legislator that not even a year after the deadline of a certain law was established. We're establishing it at this session. The Council, of politicians, an independent and professional body, would be a significant newspaper if its competences were well defined by law, but they were not. According to the Law on Culture, Jobs and Tasks of the Council: to analyse and give an opinion on the state and culture; how it will analyse the state and need of culture and give its opinion when there is no means of serious research. Then, the Council gives suggestions for creating cultural policy, but the Council's suggestions under the letter of this law are not required to be respected. The Council also makes proposals for the development and improvement of cultural activities. There is no legal obligation for the Council's proposals to be born at least, so that we can find out indirectly what the Ministry of Culture didn't like and what kind of policy it, apart from expert opinion, wants to lead. The Council participates in the creation of a cultural development strategy and gives an assessment of its implementation. Since it had not been established so far, the Council could not have taken part in any strategy. The public debate on the strategy began only yesterday. We're very far from the ultimate goal. If the Council that we choose were to succeed, despite all obstacles to its normal functioning, to surprise the elements of the culture development strategy for the next 10 years, that the strategy be explained for each year in particular and that the Council submits to the Assembly once a year a report on the implementation of the adopted strategy, it would be the first major advance for Serbia's culture. The National Council for Culture has 19 members who are elected for five years. The government – four members, employed in cultural institutions – four members, representative art associations – four members, and the other associations in culture, so unrepresentative – are represented by one member, SANU – two members and the Council of National Minorities – two members. All the authorised promoters delivered their candidates to the Assembly for this important body, only two years later. Representative Artistic Associations, National Minority Councils and non-representative Artistic Associations have proposed more candidates than the number elected and gave the Assembly the opportunity to choose which candidate they consider better. All other authorised promoters have proposed exactly as many candidates as they are elected, so the Assembly's task is only to confirm their candidacy. Will the newly elected Council manage to cope with all the difficulties it will face in its work and will be able to draw the elements of the cultural development strategy that the Ministry of Culture will propose to the government and the Government of the Assembly for adoption? The strategy, as set out by the Culture Act, does not go into the details of the procedure, includes: an analysis of the existing state of cultural activity and creation; which will make serious scientific analyses of the situation and the need for culture pay and how long it takes for such analyses to be made. Is two years after the adoption of the Cultural Law the state of any cultural activity better? No, it's worse. Does creation have better conditions to grow and live? There isn't. They're getting worse. The strategy also includes the objectives of cultural development. We haven't had any clear goals so far. We don't know what the state wants to stand behind and fund it, and what it partially or completely leaves behind the market. This government seems to be leaving all cultural activities to the market, loudly publishing some of its programme that has a certain marketing purpose, fulfilling the entire media space dedicated to culture, but for the general state of culture there is no benefit from these thundering programmes. The strategy also includes cultural development instruments. So far, we've never known which instruments were defined by the government. We suspect the government doesn't have such instruments. The strategy must also provide for the necessary capital investments, they are not available in the budget. The construction sites of the National Museum, the National Library, the Museum of Contemporary Art, the Museum of the City of Belgrade are still only construction sites. I admit that it is not easy to implement declarative, empty, mutually contradictory and unconformed laws, which the government in huge quantities, hundreds of years, brings before the Assembly, and the Assembly hastily adopted them in all areas, in culture the rarest. At the very end, there is no place in this country for anyone who tries to deal with culture professionally and seriously. Not even the fact that culture could be and that in many countries it is a driver of the economy, it is not enough for this government to pay attention to it. From Serbian culture and state, there will be no stone left on stone unless the elections are discussed as soon as possible, so that some new congregation majority can choose a government that will treat their people and the state with responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54991	I give my word to Mark Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in search of common nor for five points of the agenda that you have united in a single debate, the only binding tissue that can be reached is that all these bodies are the creations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and these are creatures that cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia according to word. If we start with the National Educational Council, with 42 members, who receive 40,000 dinars and a president of 50,000 dinars, totalling a million 700,000 dinars per month, we will reach members of the Securities Commission, with a salary of 33,000 dinars, and members of the National Bank Governor's Council, who, of the salary of 125,000 dinars, with other receipts, reach up to 900,000 dinars per month, without success in trying to reach his colleague from the same council with incredible millions of 707,000 dinars, a certain Costa Josifidis, and the state and citizens increasingly poor, increasingly in charge. At all, we have links to what a teacher or a bank clerk has an average salary of 33,000 and 34,000 dinars and how much they do in a month. When it comes to the formation of the National Council for Culture, as provided for by your extremely bad Culture Act as early as July 2009, with a deadline for proposing members of the Council 30 days from the date of entry into force of the Law, it is evident today that the first members of the Government to break the laws, for which you as a congregation majority bear responsibility. Former Minister Bradic announced the election of council members last year, but the council has not been formed to date. In the Law on Culture, whether because of the bad intentions or because of the lack of understanding of the promoters, artists in the theatre are deprived of the right to work for a certain time, and I wonder how many members of the councils you choose today will want to protect actors as exhibits of culture against the will and will of party-set managers in theatres, if they themselves are party-colored. Your Ministry of Culture has left local self-government to decide on theatres, select managers, gas, increase and reduce theatres. In Zajecar, Bosko Nicic closed the theatre where there were 17 actors from 45 employees, and after two months he opened it with the same 45 employees, but with seven actors, because he hired his friends. Knowing his sense of art and theater, he could have left the institution without any actor and still called the theater. He's still changing his status to get a high school principal's seat and he's in the prison theater with a high school manager today. In Leskovec, you were the director of the customs theatre. Now there are no candidates for members of the Council who might convince me to vote for them, if I thought they wouldn't allow more in the sphere of culture and art, and theaters and that anyone could do whatever they wanted. Almost as a rule, either incompetent people, or unfulfilled artists with party books are promoted to the head of cultural institutions in Serbia. In Nis, which should be a garden of culture and cultural life in southern Serbia, the director of the theatre is an actress of the puppet theatre, which is not understood by nature in the evening theatre, because according to the profession, he is a writer with a two-year directorship from Bulgaria and an unsuperfited diploma. It's like a football team running a hockey team coach, so he says, "Let's play football like you play hockey, you say, so we don't know, so how do you not know, and it's sports. So here and here. Members of the Council must stand in the way of such a principle of choice of directors: the less you understand business, the better. Such managers hear about the need for the visual identity of the theatre and in the desire for citizens passing by the theatre to experience the visual experience of the performances being given, instead of the images of the characters from the plays hanging in front of the theatre, they naturally make the painting of Batman, Superman, Modesty Blaze and Sherlock Holmes, and it is not enough for them, but as an ad they write – I am Batman, the bat, I fly to the National Theatre Nis. If it were not regrettable, it would be funny, but it is likely for people who decide on the cultural life of the town of Nisa a brilliant solution and would not surprise me at all that Mrs Biljana Vujovic, in the democratic climate of the Serbian culture, would propose at the very least for the assistant minister. In addition, whether candidates for members of the Council will do anything about control, because of the cultural Sutton Nis, under the DS, faithfully testify and damaged participants of the 20th Sicevo Book Colony, who did not receive fees at the end of the Colony, nor did Ramonida Serbika's laureate award receive the sum of that recognition. The organizer of the event The Low Cultural Centre, the patron of the town of Nis and the Ministry of Culture, took part in nearly 20 writers from the country and the environment, and there is no fee for the participants or the jury. What about the fee? He was eaten by democracy. From the Low Cultural Centre, they say they have not received the promised funds from their founder, according to the financial service of the city of Nis, it has been paid. Whoever lies will be seen, and months after the end of the Colony, the participants will not be paid. Where will be the seat of the National Council for Culture in all these negative socio-cultural phenomena, it seems to me that even now we do not know when it is formed. How many members will be paid - we don't know. What will members of the Council do for Belgrade, a city of closed museums? And we don't know that. Probably nothing. On the one hand, you highlighted Belgrade's bid for Europe's cultural capital in 2020, on the other hand, too long a list of almost all major museums that do not work. The National Museum has been closed for 10 years. Even in World War II, there was no such situation. It does not work, further, the Museum of Contemporary Art, the Museum of the City of Belgrade, the Museum of Deviation in Zemun. So much for cultural heritage as part of the European identity you stand for. Instead of having museums, as national and local identities, at the same time form the identities of our citizens and be a place for education and factories for money from cultural tourism, so-called cultural tourism. The easiest way for a democratic government to solve problems is through the closure of the museum for reconstruction, and without much concern for our history and art, which become invisible. We are still missing to hear before the elections again – the opening of 300,000 jobs or the free campaign of 1,000 euros, and there is a democratic story complete. Now I would refer to the selection of members of the National Educational Council. It seems to me that this government is making easy use of the term national and without justification in the government's implementation with views and results of work. We witnessed the abuse of the name National Savings Centre, which in the public's view created the impression that it was a state institution, although it was a private one, with a number of undeserved privileges from the NB, then, apparently suspicious recapitalisations and attempts to hide these abuses through the sale of the National Savings Bank of Eurobank EFG. There is nothing more beautiful and honorable for members of any nation in the world to be national, because it only means loving their people, living and working for them. Let's look at how national educational council really is national. I want to make future members of the Council more responsible than their predecessors, above all in the work of school textbooks. Since 2000, they have been one of the main topics of pro-democracy education reforms, and therefore Serbia has 27 textbook publishers today, which is why it is a recordr in the region and beyond. In Prokuplje we have three elementary schools where, for example, English learns from three different textbooks. You let teachers and teachers choose their own publishing home, so they get the highest 10% margin depending on the publisher they choose. Given that the publication of each textbook is reportedly preceded by detailed, two-stage control, first through the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, and then through the National Educational Council, you will think of the first view that order has been introduced. However, if we take a history textbook for the sixth class, a certain Radet Mihaljčić, you will learn that "the elderly Albanians have preserved the customs, language and other folk features, while part of the displaced Slovenes have received the language and customs of Albanians and joined them", the 42nd textbook page. Then you will learn on page 86 that "Stefhan Nemanja has won Kosovo and the ends of northern Albania". On page 92, you will find that "Dusan Silni has won most of Albania's landscapes". After this knowledge, sixth-grade children who are in the phase of forming national consciousness and identity immediately realize that there is no point in objecting to Albanians almost nothing at the expense of KIM, as they are also Balkan natives, while Serbs are usurper. Children are learning their history that they are members of the Albanian country and that what the Cypriots take from the sacred Serbian country, they are actually just returning theirs and that it is probably some God's justice. The author, a genius in a criminal enterprise against the Serb people, on page 125, states that after the Marička and Kosovo battles, Turks have increasingly threatened Albanian areas. Furthermore, under the title "Albanians and Turks" after Gjorga Kastriot Skenderbeg's greatness, the author forgets to say Skenderbeg's origin was a Serb. Why is he doing this? Because it works for the Albanian, American and EU interests. Furthermore, in the same textbook, you can learn that the Battle of Mary in 1371 was a break not from the Serbian military and state, but from the Macedonian military. It doesn't matter that the brothers Mrnjavčevići, King Vukasin and his brother Uglješ, didn't come back at all, side 117. In addition to the introduction of the peoples of Macedonian Slovenians into history, the author continues to say on page 53 that the Cyrillic, except for Serbs, Macedonians and Bulgarians, has been accepted by people living in "Bosnian and coastal areas south-east of Split". Now we ask ourselves: Who could these strangers be? Either they're aliens or they're Serbs, the third one can't be. Of course they're Serbs. But that's not to be said, because BiH historians teach children there were no Serbs in the Middle Ages in Bosnia. Now the historical truth does not match BiH's interests and it is by no means European to propagate historical truth through argument. It is simply not in line with the apologies of the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, who always, if necessary in the region, declares some apology at the request of this or that. We can't help but wonder what kind of control it is when a textbook like this appears in the press, whose author in the serious state for high treason would earn years of imprisonment, and with it all the responsible members of the National Educational Council, including the minister. If the rapporteurs of the National Educational Council had any objections following the examination of this textbook, the Council found that they were not essential, or there were no objections. What standards does this textbook meet? In the end, can it be called the national council that proposes approval for the press of a textbook like this? There's nothing national here. If you are already referring to European systems of values and European examples, look at Greece. In Greece, school classes do not begin until the Greek flag develops and the anthem is intonated. It's national. The 6th grade kids, the National Educational Council, can serve whatever it is. But I don't understand why parents accept all this. It's enough to get up in one school for a protest, but it's obvious that financial and economic uncertainty did their part, took people into apathy, while people's attention is rounding up with everyday sensations and events. How many bread people are able to manage, and when Tadic's regime thinks he needs the Roman principle of "panem ethinenses" – bread and games, the unfortunate Gandhi of Bajcetina stands on stage with an unconvinced, poor and cheap circus theater performance of hunger and thirst strikes, so that the dissatisfied people calm down and the regime strengthens. But we return to the candidates for the selection of members of the National Educational Council. If they are to implement the direction and concepts of development of education as well as these so far, it is bad for us, because we will easily restore the destroyed economy with the greatest nationalist Serbia has ever had, Serbian Duke Prof. Vojislav Seselj, but the destroyed generations are very difficult. In high school music schools, the National Educational Council abolished the subject of the national history of music. They care so much about national culture and heritage. The candidates should deal with his return. The reform of high school, with the National Council for Higher Education and the Accreditation Commission, is the most endangered art colleges. Looks like the commission had no ear for the specificity of the art profession. The accreditation process takes place very slowly, despite the fact that the colleges have corrected the shortcomings after the warning act, whether in the names that should have been frozen or not, or in the study programmes. I understand that the mandate of the members of the Commission and the Council expired in July, but until the election of the new members of the work obligation had to be carried out, or by urgent procedure you should have chosen new members. Here they do not help the stories that the Council has not adopted a national framework of qualifications for higher education or that there is a discrepancy in the part of the Bologna diplomas on the appearance and content of diplomas issued by the University of Belgrade with the Law on Higher Education and the Nomenclature of Interests adopted by the National Council for Higher Education. Regardless of the university's appeals and proposals, the ministry has not responded, and the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, with over-authorization, has shared the first Bologna diplomas, through the necessary employment of high school students. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that, for example, the SRS is responsible for this situation in higher education, one minute responsible for this condition should not wait for Vojislav Seselj, because accreditation and handing over diplomas cannot be stopped at any cost? The impression is that from education and culture, down to economy and exports, you have no strategy, no desire to make things regular and better, and even less energy to work for the people and the state. Finally, let's say that one of the firmly-defined members of the DS, SPS or G 17 of all these facts that I have presented is not enough to see that it is on the sidelines, I am sure that the resignation of your member of the Committee of Papers from the values of Prof. Dr. Dejan Malinić will faithfully illustrate and not plastically, but rather prove that there is no in your work, and you have passed this on to the Securities Committee, according to Mr. Malinić, competences, high, professional and ethnic standards and transparency of the process, which should be key criteria. The resignation testifies that the government of the Republic of Serbia did not allow the Commission's independence and independence from the political and influence of different participants in the capital market. From these words Mr. Malinić, the elements for prosecution are more than explicit. It further discusses the non-transparent reception of new employees and the domination of political, and the private interests of burdened criteria in the process, leading to adverse and devastating consequences for the functioning of the Securities Commission. This is not what I wrote, your man who knows you well and who is more silent and unjust. It is quite understandable that your old paroles of transparency, expertise in front of politics, can no longer be mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54993	We move to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the agenda. I give my word to the MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54994	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on today's agenda, we have a debate on five extremely important points of the agenda. These are the appointments or discharges of officials conducted by the National Assembly. It is a number of extremely important bodies that are particularly important, each in their area – a member of the National Bank Governor's Council, a selection of members of the National Council for Culture, a list of candidates for members of the National Educational Council, a National Council for Higher Education and a proposal for a decision to suspend the role of a member of the Securities Commission. Each of these bodies in its area has an extremely large responsibility. It is particularly important to discuss in detail all key aspects of these agenda points. We had an important law at this session a few days ago, which is the Law on selecting Members of Parliament. The question can be asked – do these agenda points, this one and these five, have something in common, and if they have what it is, and if they do not, why do they not? MPs are directly elected by citizens, they are members of the highest legislative body that is also controlled by the executive authority, the Assembly is one of the most important elements of our system, and on the other hand we have a system. Our society is arranged so that there are many independent institutions, which are independent of both politics and the National Assembly, which are independent bodies that need to take care of some extremely important things. The National Bank should worry about price stability. The governor's council controls the governor. The National Educational Council is an extremely important part of every educational system and should help improve our education system. The National High Education Council is concerned about higher education. The National Council for Culture, counterpart Stojanovic, spoke in detail about its importance. The Securities Commission is the most important element in the capital market. Therefore, something that applies to the selection of MPs should also apply when selecting all these officials who will be sitting in these bodies and bodies. When it comes to the election of MPs, it has been said that the key issue of today's system is that citizens need to know who they vote for and citizens need to know who they choose because it is the only way to allow the development of democratic order, the development of the system. The party's influence must be reduced, because if the parties influence their MPs, then it is a matter which policy they will implement. Citizens need to know what policy their representatives in the National Assembly are implementing. Therefore, it is obvious that there are numerous similarities between the choices of all candidates to sit in these important bodies with the choice of MPs. The first question is asked: Do the messengers of the people know any of these people for whom they will vote? For example, does anyone in this room know what Mr. Malinic looks like, who resigned? Let's say he shows up in the O.R., shall we recognize him? Who are members of the National Cultural Council and does anyone here know any of them? Unfortunately, I think very few of these people are known to the MPs. Candidates for these functions don't sit in the O.R. What policy are they going to implement? What do they stand for? Whether we vote for names or we fight for a democratic arrangement in which the system will be depersonalized, where we stand for policies, names are not important, it's important what someone stands for. For example, what policy will candidates at the National Education Council implement? What do they stand for anyway? What kind of system do they stand for? Do we have an answer to that question today? If 6.5 million Serbian citizens are expected to know who the candidates for the MPs are, that these people know who they're going to vote for when the day comes, when they go to the polls, if the question is that it's crucial to change and to improve our system that every voter knows exactly what policy the MP is going to implement, does 250 MPs today, when discussing such important bodies, know what kind of policy or what any of these candidates advocate? The answer to that question is very clear, the answer is that no one here knows or very few people know it at all. As a result, we should not be surprised that we do not know what our GDP is, whether it was less by 3% or 6%, whether inflation is 20% or 10%, whether the budget deficit is 120 billion or 150 billion, what is the public debt. Then all these unknowns are the natural consequence of this behavior. Let me give you an interesting example, point 15 is the proposal for a decision to suspend the function of a member of the Securities Commission. Prof. Dr. Dejan Malinic resigned, we are discussing these resignations under an urgent procedure for the reasons of the necessary preconditions for the implementation of the procedure for the resolution of the Commission's election for securities of value. I would like to point out once again that the Charter Commission is one of the most important or most important bodies regulated by the capital market, meaning the basic market on which the turnover of all securities of value and total capital is carried out. The capital market law has changed and a new law was passed on 5 May 2011. This law defines the way of choice, the duration of the Commission's mandate for securities of value, and, in transitional and final provisions, it also says that the members of the Commission will be elected in accordance with this law when the time comes and until the existing composition is elected, performs its function. So the current Securities Commission is doing its job until we choose a new commission. This was adopted on 5 May 2011. The previous law was passed on 25 May 2006, in transitional provisions also said the existing commission is doing its job until the new one's election, and that the commission should be elected by 30 September of that year. In case he doesn't choose, he'll work for the existing. When was Mr. Malinich elected to his post? Mr Malinic was elected on 24 August 2004. The most important body, which cares about the capital market, about securities of value, has a mandate that expired nearly two years ago, to the complete commission. Prior to that, their term of office expired on 30 September 2006, because a new mandate was adopted, and we are discussing an emergency procedure on the resolution of a man who has twice expired in order to obtain conditions for the election of a new one. What does that look like? How do we comment? Is this the attitude of the National Assembly towards such an important organ? Is this then a citizens' electoral will because if they need to know what citizens will choose when they go to the polls, what the MPs are going to do, how can we resolve today a man with a mandate twice, and we don't have a choice of the complete Commission on Securities of Values, because this point would have been avoided if we had chosen a new Committee on Securities of Values. It was our obligation, it was the obligation of the National Assembly, the ruling majority to do so two years ago. That's no wonder to anyone. If that's not weird, then how are we going to figure out what our salaries and pensions are, how are we going to calculate, there's Mr Krpić, how are we going to determine what pensions are if we don't know what our GDP is, and it's legally written that pensions are determined on the basis of GDP. When we pointed that out, no one wanted to listen. Why do we get rid of a man who's been given his term twice, and we don't choose a full commission that needs a full mandate to do his job? It's not a problem in this country, obviously the MPs, let's change it because it's the key to the system, and everything else can be whatever we want and it doesn't affect the system. As long as this is how it works, then we'll read from the newspapers what your projected GDP is, what the paper says won't match what we see when we go to a gas station or when we go to the supermarket to buy any groceries. Then we'll wonder why it doesn't add up, and we'll get worse every day. And apparently, there is a need for profound change here, deep reforms to make anything better. Such a choice, this kind of behavior towards such important bodies doesn't contribute at all to change things better, rather things change dramatically worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54995	MP Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54996	First of all, in my presentation, I'm going to look back on this proposal to elect a member of the Board of Governors and I think it's a very important topic. We had a few days ago and a bill on the protection of users of financial services and also in June 2010 we had these significant changes to the NBS Act and it was then presented, unsuccessfully in our opinion, by then Governor Jelasic. The Law on NBS 2003 and these very significant changes in 2010 specify that there are, in fact, three NBS bodies that are significant, which are the Executive Board, Governor and the Board of Governors. Why is the Board of Governors significant? Because it effectively determines the guidelines, adopts statutes, annual reports, the course of the dinar, the strategy for the development of the NBS. A gentleman who is a candidate for a new member of the Board of Governors, Mr. Costa Josifidis, professor of the Faculty of Economics in Subotica, should participate in one important business such as choice and decision on the choice of a strategy for the development of the NBS. When you look at his biography, you'll see that he's a man who deals first and foremost with so-called. European integration, he teaches at the Faculty of European Integration, the EU Macro-Economics and the EU Economy, and in this sense, it is not difficult to conclude that he will primarily be in charge of carrying out what he writes in the light of changes to the 2010 law. What does that mean exactly? It means that the NBS, like the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has decided as parliamentary majority for one time without alternative, for one non-critical road, which is the EU at all costs, the EU as one type of dogma. In light of the 2010 law, it states that the main objective of the NBS is to be a member of the eurozone, to be a member of these central banks of the EU and to be above all in terms of supporting the Statutes of the European Central Bank. What does that mean exactly? In practice, you have an entirely illogical situation and one situation that is rarely mentioned in our public, which is that there is a huge democratic deficit in the functioning of the European Central Bank and of all other bodies that decide in fact in the EU, I am thinking, above all, of the European Council, of the Council of Ministers, and here so glified and represented as a kind of fetish, the European Commission is the actual third-rate EU body that is below these institutions that I have listed. In fact, you have in the EU, and this is what a professor here from the Faculty of Economics in Subotica will try to introduce into our political, financial and other life that the European Parliament has in fact no power over the European Central Bank, and even moreover the Governor of the European Central Bank, Mr Jean-Claude Trishe, has been elected without any consultation and without any vote in the European Parliament. This is a kind of absurdity, a kind of fact that shows that democracy does not exist in the EU. There is a huge democratic deficit in the functioning of European institutions, because if such an important institution and such an important man, such as Mr Trishe, are elected without the involvement of the European Parliament, then it is only political agreements and it is a kind of decision-making through a kind of political compromise. It is widely known, known that Mr. Trishe came to that place as a result of the agreement between France and Germany. So if you apply your so-called. European standards in practice, not what is shown in our media that everything there is ideal, but if applied in practice you will see that our parliament will eventually lose any power of decision regarding the NBS, about the election of governors and about the election of a member of the Board of Governors, and that is what we are talking about today. What does that mean exactly? This specifically means that the Lisbon Treaty will be applied simply, and it says in the NBS Act, in an explanation, the Lisbon Treaty, which will in fact lead to that, if one day we do not give God a member of the EU, we will have to fulfil directives and orders so-called. a financial prosecutor, who will be able to determine whether, for example, Western banks here are at risk, whether they are damaged by the new Bill on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. This is said by Mr. Dugalic, who is the secretary of the Association of Banks and which is obvious, one general impression can be said, in fact stronger on the financial market of this country than the Governor, rather than the Government, only because he is a representative of a EU-based monopoly group of banks holding 75% of the RS financial market. These are facts, and these phrases about some insight into the European Central Bank, the introduction of the euro, that is, you will admit when the economic data is examined neutrally, when the functioning of the EU is examined, a kind of farce. The point is, therefore, that citizens should not be deceived and it should be openly said that interest in the Republic of Serbia is the largest and largest in the region and in Europe after those in Moldova. It should be openly said that all EU member states in Eastern Europe have over 75% of foreign-owned banks. On the other hand, this is not applied in Western Europe, because it's about 15-20% there, in four main European Central Bank shareholders, it's even below 14%. There are double standards in the economy, therefore, there are double standards and in the functioning of the European Central Bank and that is a fact that cannot be challenged, even though Mr Josifidis is applying this knowledge from the EU's macro-economics and other subjects he teaches. What do I mean? It is simply a kind of harmful practice, a practice that should not be applied in our terms, especially when the monopoly of foreign banks reaches such a level as it is at present. It should also be openly said that the euro is a political project, because there is no currency that has no budget behind it, which does not have a harmonised tax policy and legislation, and that it is a kind of political project, which allows such large exporters as Germany and France, above all, to export their products to the markets of Eastern Europe. If our goal is to be part of the eurozone, then we should ask the question of how it is possible to discuss the introduction of drachma in Greece so seriously already. How is it possible, however, in a country that has been in the EU for more than 20 years, that the euro leads to such negative consequences? The only logical answer is that the euro is harmful to small countries, that the euro is harmful to Eastern Europe and that the euro is a political project, which is shown here as something that is economically successful, which is obviously not. And also, when you see that this whole project is rocking on the very ground, that the Schengen agreement is no longer valid, that you have a crisis of the euro, that you have a democratic deficit that exists since the Treaty of Rome and beyond, and when you add one fact to all that data, which is trying to hide in our public, to Article 133. The Rome Treaty establishing the European Community, all states are obliged to lead a harmonised customs and trade policy towards third countries, then you will come to one logical conclusion. A logical conclusion that completely ruins the country's Euro-Union propaganda. When the member is applied and Serbia is one day an EU member, the Free Trade Agreement with the Russian Federation will have to be abolished. So, the only free trade agreement, our only export chance and the only chance for this country and this economy to stand on their feet and start producing and selling abroad. It's the consequence of the European path, it's the consequence of these false standards, which apply to the so-called. European law on NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54997	National MP Nikola Savic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today in a united debate we are talking about several different things from different areas, from the fields of culture, education and finance. In his presentation, the authorised representative of the SRS Mr Marko Milenkovic united all these things in a brilliant way, with a special reference to the state of the city of Nis, the city where he works and the city in which I live. I can really stand behind everything he said about it. Since he talked about all these things, in my discussion, I will primarily rely on those related to education and the National Educational Council. We are today considering a list of candidates for the selection of the second half of the members of the National Educational Council, as well as the selection of one candidate for the National Council for Higher Education. In accordance with the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, the Education Committee, as an authorised proposing, has submitted candidates to Members of Parliament. And when it comes to the National Educational Council, I must tell you that a democratic procedure is respected, where MPs have the opportunity to choose between several candidates. And when it comes to selecting a member of the National Council for Higher Education, the possibility does not exist, it can practically be said that there is no choice, but is only determined that from the list of the Serbian University Conference, a member of the Council becomes a certain gentleman, a regular professor of the European University of Milan Aleksic. I don't know, but maybe that's because it's the European University of Serbia, which can't have competition, because in your opinion, everything that's European has no alternative. In this way, the university is assured that it has its own representative at the National Council for Higher Education. In addition to these two advices, I will still pay more attention to my presentation to the National Educational Council. At first, I must say, it is a shame that national councils of national minorities have not yet delivered their candidates, in order to complete this council. I hope that they will soon do so, that it will soon be and that they will overcome the problems they have within their own counsel. When it comes to this council, instead of the 42 members so far, the number of members of the National Educational Council with an increase of one, therefore 43, for reasons other than those who have so far had the right to give their representatives to this National Educational Council, this is what the State University of Novi Pazar, the Sociological Society of Serbia and the Higher Education Institute of Teachers acquired. Of course, it is not at all questionable that those institutions have been given the right to have their representatives at the National Educational Council. On the contrary. But I think it's something else. This is another fact that this is the right given to the above institutions, achieved by the loss of the rights of some other associations, and above all by the Community of Secondary Professional Schools, whose number of representatives in the National Educational Council has been reduced by half, means from four to two members. We all need to know that in our education system there is convincingly the largest number of those who are directly teaching, starting with the educators to the university professors. If we look at only higher education for a moment and for a moment in particular, we will see that unlike other types of education, this education has its own special advice on what is being said here, the National Council for Higher Education. Given this fact, it is logical to conclude that this second council, the National Educational Council, should deal most with the problems of other types of education, lower education, starting from preschool to high school. However, I must say that the representatives of these kinds of education are at least participating in the National Educational Council. This can be seen by looking at the composition and structure of the National Educational Council and seeing again that in this council is the most representative of higher education institutions and most of those representatives with academic titles, professor, doctor and so on. More than 80% of the representatives in this council are with these academic titles, and then it can be concluded that this National Educational Council is nothing more than the National Council for Higher Education, and it really shouldn't and should not be. The question then arises – what about those people who participate in the direct educational process, and there are most around 95-96%, according to some data? These people who participate in the direct educational process probably know best all the problems they are dealing with, better safe than those who bring out some of their own strategies and some kind of reform of education. We all have to ask ourselves how many teachers there are in the National Educational Council and how many elementary or high school teachers? According to what I've seen, there's only one representative of teachers from the Teachership of Serbia, and that's a man, or person who didn't work directly with children, but did some other thing, so she never carried a diary in her life. Of course, when it comes to primary and secondary school teachers, there are only a few in this council, which is really small. As for representatives of members of various societies, meaning, philosophical, sociological, society of historians, society of physicists, geographers, etc., every society has its own representative again, but these are not direct perpetrators and participants in the follow-up, but they are again people with academic titles - professor, doctor, etc. Several times I spoke from this pay phone in this assembly about these topics related to education and the National Educational Council, and I have always mentioned that territorialally when the whole territory of Serbia is not nearly respected, it is concluded that more than two-thirds of the members, and one-and-a-half of the council, the National Education Council and the National Council for Higher Education, come from Belgrade and Novi Sad, while the other parts of Serbia are being wasteed by less than one-third. So we all have to ask ourselves, "What's our status in education?" I will no longer mention problems with the territorial representation of members of the National Council, but we all know that during this year there have been the most strikes of educational workers in the last maybe 20 years in Serbia. We know that this school year is already at the very end, and that it is specific because it was the first time some newspapers were introduced by law, as a small graduation, etc. We know that many hours have been lost, but that seems to be what the Ministry of Education and the National Educational Council understands only lightly and nothing has been done specifically on the subject. Then one question can be asked justifiably – are these tips, both national and educational advices, and the National Council for Higher Education, justified their expectations? Personally, I don't think they've justified what they've been asked to do. We know that their sessions are very rarely scheduled, but one of my colleagues, I will call again, Marko Milenkovic, said they are still receiving a solid application there for their participation in these tips. We've seen that the formal promoter of this list is the Education Committee. I have to say, it's a shame there are no representatives of the Ministry of Education here, because I would really have to ask him one question. No matter what no one is here from the Ministry of Education, I have to bring one problem here, again from the city of Nothing, from which I come. Namely, this question of mine concerns groups of graduate sociologists from Nis who completed a two-month requalification to do social workers' jobs. It's about no number, 59 people like that did it. The right to work in institutions that are under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour is disputed by them, by suggesting to the directors of these institutions, but by oral means, not in writing, it would be against the law, not to accept such persons. As for other institutions, which are in the jurisdiction of some other ministries, the problem does not arise. Of course, if there is a need for their work and if they are lucky enough to find a job, they work without a problem. But it's not the only problem with a group of these people, these graduate sociologists. We had an example of two such persons from Nis, two graduate sociologists, who applied this year to master studies at the Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade. Of course, they met the conditions of the competition, because the condition of the competition required that all those who had completed humanities be able to compete. They handed over the paperwork neatly for the master's studies, and that's right on social work. Unfortunately, they were rejected, they weren't admitted, and with a reason that they had enough candidates from their home college. This is really about classical discrimination, and this thing should be investigated.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u54999	National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and today I begin my discussion with words – we are having a joint debate on five points of the agenda. It is the only way for Serbian citizens who are following the assembly meetings to see what kind of work the assembly majority imposes, more specifically how much time has been denied for MPs who are representatives of the opposition to talk about agenda points. Only in this case is time five times shorter. The fact is, there was an opportunity when many more points were combined into one debate. We all remember one occasion about a year ago, a year and a half ago, when at one session, just reading the name of the dots that were merged into a debate took about 12 minutes. Now we have one so-called. mix topics from the area of economy, culture and education. We from the SRS have made an effort to identify solutions that are mutually conditional and connected. We are certain that the promoter is also aware that, apart from the choices and resignations of certain persons to certain functions, these decisions are not connected and mutually conditional. In no case shall the selection of a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS be linked to the selection of members of the National Council for Culture, nor shall the selection of members of the National Educational Council be conditioned by the resignation of a member of the Securities Committee. Some colleagues have defined themselves to discuss the whole mix of topics or to combine certain topics or just some. In the context of the time at my disposal, I will talk about economic issues, more specifically on the agenda points relating to the election of a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS and the resignation of a member of the Securities Commission. Let's just remind ourselves that the Board of Governors of the NBS is the authority in whose jurisdiction, among other things, is the establishment of a dinar course on the proposal of the NBS Executive Board, and with the consent of the Government. Also, this body adopts a financial plan and adopts the NBS' annual financial report, elects an external auditor, examines its report and monitors the recommendations, monitors the implementation of an internal audit and adopts a strategy for the development of the NBS. This is what I'm saying to illustrate that the agenda points that are connected to a debate are not a mere procession of the names and last names of some people who are going to take up some functions. As far as a concrete solution is concerned, nothing is essentially changing, nothing new is happening, because the same person is putting on the same function. It is only a matter of procedure, because the term of office of a member of the Board of Governors has expired and a new member is required to be elected. In this case, as I said, the same face is chosen. What the SRS wants to point to is that the term of office of this member expired on April 3rd and that representatives of the ruling structure are late with the election, in this case with a re-election, but has become a practice that everything is being done with a delay. Even in this case, it's not a significant delay, if we compare it to other cases, which I'll talk about a little later. Just to point out that the SRS did not participate in proposing candidates to the Assembly Committee on Finance, because it is clear to us as a day for candidates who are designated by the representatives of the authorities and we have no intention of participating in this procedural farce. I mentioned for a moment that one of the important responsibilities of the Board of Governors of the NBS is to determine the course of the dinars. As for that, I would briefly mention what economic experts have repeatedly pointed out these last days. In fact, they show fear that the stronger the dinar now, the later it will fall. They also point out that the strengthening of the dinars is a result of government borrowing and that is something that the SRS will always disagree with. Besides, there's another business here with the Treasury's dinar records with high earnings, because the contribution to the records, when compared in euros, is significant. It is a very interesting item of the agenda in which the National Assembly should adopt its resignation as a member of the Securities Commission. In fact, what's interesting is that Mr. Malinić listed as the reason he resigned. That was the case, some colleagues were already mentioned, but Serbian citizens should be familiar with it a little more. Professor Malinic wrote to the National Assembly that he is resigning because of the way the Commission is led. He openly talks about the Commission's independence and independence being threatened by political influence, the non-transparent reception of new employees and the dominating of political and private interests as criteria for employment. To be clear, we haven't heard anything new now. It is a picture of today in Serbia and opposition representatives have pointed to this many times before, but here, we have now received another in a series of confirmations of what we have spoken of several times. Otherwise, one resignation from the Securities Commission was submitted back in 2004, following the privatisation of the company "Knjiz Milos". But she wasn't adopted until today. Otherwise, in this case, the pressures of the Commission's executive authority were so convincing that the President of the Commission ended up in the Emergency Centre after a conversation in the Government. The "Knjiz Milos" case was the reason that the executive power, changing the law, stifled the Commission's independence and took control of this key financial market arbitration. Such a procedure was vividly described by the Minister of Finance at the time, saying, "It is necessary at this time that the Securities Commission is as close to the government as possible." The amendments to the law are then made, and the Commission shall be assigned the powers it has exercised as originals as entrusted transactions, of course entrusted by the Government. Lost independence and independence are not allowed to return, and this resignation is the real picture of the Commission's real state of affairs. I will return only briefly to 2005, then the Securities Commission, which was supposed to represent the institution responsible for preserving the credibility of the financial market, also warned of a possible case of money laundering when buying the Tourist-Hotel Enterprise Palic. I mentioned that in 2004, a resignation was sent that has not been accepted. Mr Baec then publicly announced that he is resigning because of pressure on the members of the Commission to withdraw their decision to disqualify Apurna and Danone. Otherwise, the Commission has been working in the current composition since 2004, and has been elected for five years. According to the Law on the Market of Securities of Values. The new Securities Commission was to be selected by 30 June 2006 at the latest. However, in the transitional and final provisions of that law, it is stated that, unless the Assembly selects new members of the Commission within that deadline, existing members of that independent body continue to carry out their duties until new members are elected. Officially, members of the Commission have expired in the second half of 2009, but it appears that some of those provisions interpret that this may take a lifetime or until they resign which will be accepted. What Serbian citizens certainly need to know is that the Commission has a president and four members. In September 2010, the Anti-Corruption Council revealed the names of persons covered by criminal charges for abuse of official position when privatising Luke "Belgrade". Among those names are the name and last name of the president and three members of the Securities Commission, only one member of the Commission did not receive a criminal application at that time. It is a picture of an institution in Serbia: executives are suspected of abuses of official status, independence and independence have no say, and new employment is solely under the influence of political and private interests. This should be remembered well by all those who have lost their jobs, but also by those who have never been hired, and not only by them, but by all the taxpayers of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55001	The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55002	So one of the personnel solutions that is here today on the agenda is the question of the resignation of one of the members of the Securities Commission. To say that, at the time, the Securities Commission was conceived as one key institution, at least that's what was said, to preserve the credibility of the financial market in Serbia. This should have been an independent and independent institution, self-determined by deciding, within its jurisdiction, which cases will be taken into account, when, as well as everything that is related to it, and independent by being absolutely independent of the other institutions of the system, and especially from the executive authority. Is this all the way, is the Securities Commission an independent and independent institution? Unfortunately, it's only in the domain of theory, reality here is completely different. And this, as well as other committees, committees, and other agencies, and everything that this government and this government educate, is neither independent nor independent. They are all dependent on this and this kind of government of the Republic of Serbia, which again plays as some others play it, in the rhythm of the so-called. The new world order. The ultimate goal of this new world order is in fact the establishment of a single country on the entire planet. In 1950, James Warburg said, "Someone likes it or not, one government will be established, either by hand or by force." So, just from this one sentence, you can see what this new world order is. Under the project, peoples must mix, forget their racial and cultural specificities, the nations must give up any independence and sovereignty. All religions would be weakened by this project, thrown on a historic margin. It would be based on this project of a planet where there would be no state or religion, where there would be no ideals to fight for. It will be an empire of hedonism without faith, without national pride, without identity, etc. It will be simple according to this project by the ants of happy consumers. That's how it's drawn and that's how it's done. Why does all agencies, committees, why does all commissions formed in Serbia, in the end, why does the Serbian government have to serve this purpose? In 2005, we heard this, the Securities Commission warned about the possible money laundering in the purchase of the "Palic" tourist-hotel company, which is probably owned by the famous Darko Saric. After one discussion, it is another example that we also heard here, and the conversation reportedly took place in the Serbian government for sale of the "Knjiza Miloša", and the conversation, among other things, was attended by the president of this Securities Committee, as announced by the chairman of the Securities Commission after this conversation ended at the Emergency Centre. What happened next is not said, but I am asking the question – and what about dozens of questions the SRS has raised here, and these are about the privatisations of Luke Belgrade, the company Novosti, and the Usce Market Centre, etc., therefore, of privatisations that directly undermined the credibility of Serbia's financial market. I will remind you one more time -- the Commission's priority for securities is to preserve the very credibility of Serbia's financial market. What about these questions? To this day, we don't have an answer for them. Furthermore, let us remember the statement of one finance minister, and this especially in relation to the independence and independence of this value charter committee, which it says - needs the Securities Commission to be as close to the government at this point. How is it to be as close to the government as possible, and why should an independent and independent institution be as close to the government as possible? After this, if someone thought that the Securities Commission could be an independent and independent institution, the practical suppression of the Commission's influence on the financial processes begins, and hence the continuation of this satanic idea of a new world order. That idea, just one more thing to say about it, the idea of a new world order as a order of a better life is an extremely utopian idea, and this is the SRS, and here in the Serbian Parliament has repeatedly pointed out. You know, that better tomorrow's idol that's always being propagated, especially before some elections, is an idol that simply drank the blood of many generations, and we are all witnesses in Serbia's recent history, and not only Serbia. This utopian idol of a better tomorrow is being propagated here through the idea that the EU has no alternative, and that is one extreme utopian goal, the goal through which every person is rejected, through which all people are actually treated as bolts in a social machine, and a man is simply treated as just one brick in a building and your happier and better future. Unfortunately, all agencies, all commissions established in Serbia, and nothing like mushrooms after the rain, strive to serve this ultimate goal. In order not to happen to think that the Commission has independence and independence in its work, it has come from those original powers that it had under the old law to actually be trusted by the Government of Jurisdiction. This finally puts a noose around the agency's neck, although it could not have been independent or independent to date. That is why Professor Dejan Malinic is probably also resigning, explaining that he is doing so from a deep disagreement regarding the continued functioning of the institution, as he says in his explanation. He further says that the independence and independence of the Commission of one -- political influences, and two -- the influence of different participants in the capital market cannot be ensured, he says, due to the domination of political and private interests in the process. It's all clear from this. Just to remind me that the president of the Securities Commission says it's all a lie, that what Professor Malinic says is not to stand but, according to the President of the Commission, it's like heaven and earth. He goes on to say that he's just hurt by vanity. Who's right here? Apparently no one. It is simply the face and appearance of one of these same things, which is further destroying and robbing Serbia through tycoon and mafia privatisations, with the closing eyes of those who should be awake in this case, and through the destruction and destruction of the financial market, and all of this again in the service of this new world order. However, in the end, let them not be mistaken citizens who think that tomorrow they will be introduced by some who have changed ideology overnight, some who have had another ideology for many years, and during the night have turned the turkey and some who are now calling on citizens to join the EU much faster. Let them know, let the citizens know that every call to hurry doesn't have to be good and it's not good, especially if that call comes from the undertaker. You know, if the undertaker invites you to hurry somewhere, even if it's in a better life, be very careful and don't follow him.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55003	The word has an MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55004	It seems that somehow when we talk about the capital market and in this story, and probably also in terms of resignation as a member of the Securities Commission, somehow it can't go without "The Book of Milos" and everything is back to that period, because, truth be told, that one complete infrastructure, institutions, instruments, work procedures, regulation, all of this is subordinated to something that we all must be looking for, and that's one more developed national economy. This organised capital market should allow for the establishment of an objective price for all market instruments, therefore, both shares and bonds and other securities of value. Of course, what has obviously remained in the past is an adequate protection of all the participants in the trade, then transparency of work, objective parameters for the conduct of macroeconomic policy, etc. Unfortunately, we are all witnesses that in Serbia, after how many years, the capital market has essentially not provided any of what is needed. Instead of creating a business environment in which big and investment companies would find their interests, but certainly those small individual investors were motivated to profitably place their savings, we have a constant, continuous series of affairs that shake the financial market and we are in a situation where we are practically all losers. Of course, except for those who went the farthest in the privatisation process in Serbia, so they seem to have privatised only the financial market. Instead of acting decisively and effectively on the capital market, the state has, unfortunately, been standing by for years and thus, directly or indirectly, taking part as an accomplice in a number of irregularities on the market. So, instead of helping to create such a business environment that would be stimulating for the arrival of strategic investors relevant for the further economic development of our national economy, the state would, by its actions or inaction, therefore, be passive, impertinent, but of course both wrong measures and missing laws practically enable or give legality to a manipulative practice and various forms of speculation. The functioning of the Securities Market Act was not based on a real analysis of the situation, but was primarily motivated by the need to sharpen and formally articulate the interests of certain financial lobbys, and I think that the growing part of the public is known who it is. Of course, it should not be mentioned in particular that this has not taken into account at all the possible consequences of the functioning of the financial market and of the national economy as a whole and that is why we are where we are. The public is probably little known as the only institution of the organised capital market in our country, the Belgrade Stock Exchange, even in what some like to say, unfortunate in the 1990s, under extremely specific socio-economic and political circumstances, has managed to develop some kind of market infrastructure, but what followed after the famous five-octobaric changes enabled the avoidance of a reorganisation of the stock exchange and the absence of some modern information system. Of course, it was not an interest to those who were economically dissuaded, which are citizens, but to those that I was already talking about, which are these financial lobbys. That's why the Belgrade Stock Exchange doesn't have any company on its charter today, and it's actually an absurd situation that raises the question and the legitimacy of the existence of an institution like this. So, these only documents are bonds from the Republic of Serbia and bonds from old foreign exchange savings, and the trade in old foreign savings bonds is certainly disputable, and from some professional aspect and problematic, since most of the traffic is done on the free market, and only one small part on the stock market through brokerage houses. So, without the special authorised interventions that need to provide liquidity and the legitimacy of the bond market. All other trading is done through the so-called so-called. the free stock market, which obviously represents more than a record of a bilateral trade between brokers than some organised system of trade which should generate an objective price of securities of value. That's why they shouldn't be surprised by the many anomalies that occur in this sphere because, I say, it's all the result of something that hasn't been built properly for years. Without introducing order into our financial market in terms of strict respect for the law, depoliticalisation of these leading market institutions, of course it is not realistic to expect the financial market to be all of us, to be equally accessible to everyone, not exclusively to rich individuals and people who are professionally engaged in this activity. Hence, the stock market represents one extreme unknown to the majority of citizens, and hence, of course, what is logical as such, and that is the ultimate mistrust of the business that is being done there. Building the situation in this segment of the financial market, of course, is not possible without well-planned and active state participation. First of all, he thinks about the Securities Commission, especially given the frequent requirements already mentioned financial lobbys, that the state's participation in stock exchange management should be reduced to some minimum, as it is clear that this is completely unfounded and extremely dangerous for further development of the financial market. What arises as a product of such a situation, even those who are still in the capacity of members of the Securities Commission to recognise the value, which is that any trading in cash of securities of value can be brought in connection with an attempt to launder money, and even monthly to competent state institutions, such as the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the MUP and the Prosecutor's Office, points to at least three to four cases of suspicious stock exchange or non-berrant trade. There are various possibilities for manipulation. Even the takeover offer can have elements that point to money laundering, and the most famous case to the general public is a well-known case of taking over the "Palic" tourist-hotel company in 2005, which is in connection with money suspected of belonging to Darko Saric. Of course it is suspicious that a 25-year-old student, not only knows whether the rights, economies or pharmacies, from Pljevalj, have millions of euros to take over the company. But again, it's something that the state must be more determined to deal with. The problem is that the regulations have not clearly defined either the act or the punishment. Because even under the law, it's said that insider trading is not allowed, but there is no sanctioning. They don't give up everything they turn themselves in to the D.A. when they don't. In some countries such as Croatia, America, France, even when there is a suspicion that something is wrong with the transaction, it can be stopped and examined. Of course, it's possible for us, but at the very end, when it's usually too late.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55005	The word has Mr. Krasic, 17 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55006	Mr. Novakovic, I must inform you in time, I hope that you will not be shocked by some of the information that I will continue to provide, and these data that I am presenting relate to two points in this unique debate, to the National Bank, or to the selection of members of the National Bank Governor's Council and the Securities Commission. Mr. Novakovic, I am speaking this way, according to statistics, the estimated population of 7.3 million. I'm talking to citizens who probably had a net profit of 35,777 dinars in March. I'm talking to the unemployed too much. Statistics last published in October 2010, which was 19.2%, and imagine those who are the most labourable in years from 15 to 64, there are over 20%. I doubt this data, I think it's more. I address those whose average monthly household consumption was 42.5 thousand dinars last year, and all this is because I want to point out that the National Bank has an obligation to secure price stability and is probably one of the first institutions to contribute significantly to reducing the poverty rate, which is according to this statistics, which is now 9.2%. Let me remind you, in 2009 compared to 2008, which is those crisis years, Seka, the global financial crisis, etc., then growth was 0.8%, and when Mr Cvetkovic said that we profited statistically well, we got out well, then it jumped from 6.9 to 9.2. So when they say something, don't believe it, something's always going to happen the other way around. Now let's go with the National Bank and select a member for the Board of Governors of the NBS. The same candidate, that's what you'd say - same target, same distance. Then the question arises – are we, in fact, fulfilling the socio-responsible function and MPs in what are called institutions, of such importance as I mentioned, and those socio-responsible functions of government officials, which must as a rule act as law, the Constitution, all that they have learned by gaining this great economic knowledge? There's all the doctors of science and so on. I have to remind you of one of my previous discussions a few years ago, when I said that behind these great functions or great callings, I can't go in there and there's no need, there are some people who have very strange intentions. Mr. Novakovic, let me give you something the NBS published. In 2009, it is said this way – operational expenditures. The costs of the 38.5 million team, compared to the 122% plan, more than when all the costs for vocational education are collected and have special costs for preparing and serving food and drink services at NBS facilities. It's just amazing. What are you doing out there in that NB? A great chamber to be, a doctor of science in the Council, to cover it up. Dear citizens, all of you who have problems with operations where you need to be charged, the principals of primary schools in remote places, youth institutions, cultural and artistic societies, all of you, please contact the NBS, it has its own special instrument to finance social, humanitarian and other activities and immediately look for a link through one of these National Bank Governors Council. Now I'm going to read you what they're doing. The National Library of Serbia -- 300,000 dinars to cover part of the cost of issuing selected works, Dr Zoran Djindjic. Why did you prosecute me for the collective acts of Laza Kostic? When are you going to press charges against Radovan Jelasic? The center of the Duke Hungarian youth – 20,000 dinars, needed for the official trip to go on March 8th. Your document, I'm just reading what you wrote.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55007	I'm sorry, Mr. Krasic, I don't doubt you're reading it properly and well-intentioned, but it's 2011 and we're discussing the motion for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors, so I'm asking you to connect it somehow.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55008	Mr. Novakovic, at first I told you that I wanted to inform you, and don't be surprised. The candidate to be voted on is Costa Josifidis. He was a member of the NBS Board back then. Can I move on? I'm talking about a candidate who, due to a monthly fee of 154 thousand dinars, is able to raise both his leg and his hand and everything, to vote, and your Dejan Soskic is currently receiving a 532 thousand dinar salary. He hid in his biography that he was chairman of the Energy Project Supervisory Board. Mr. Shoskic, on May 26th, you will now have a 60-year celebration of the Energy Project. Hundreds of thousands of dinars have been spent on painting, workers will go outside because dear President Boris Tadic is coming to them. What right are you interrupting me with? Just because you're not informed, that's your problem. Vizura Belgrade, documentary film - 500,000 dinars, Institute of Business Research - 100,000 dinars for some book, and then 100,000 dinars for Mrs. Milici Novković to cover the costs of Family Bucharest, the sixth part, and then we have primary schools, so what is given in equipment, so for computers, so each mouse, all well registered. Directors of rural schools, all tomorrow to write a request from NBS to look for school equipment – tables, benches, tables, chairs, painting etc. Parents, when you have problems with children because you need some surgery abroad, don't use television to give some bills, to show some great humanity from citizens, all contact the NBS. She splits with a hat and a hand. You have the right to invite both Kosta Josifidis and Dejan Šoškovic and all of them and to say that you are no different from any person in this work report for 2009 and 2010. The Belgrade Archdiocese – working chairs, working tables, and various publications – 12 thousand, and that first is 142 thousand. It's shared with a hat and a fist. Mr. Governor of the monthly net salary is 532.00,62 dinars, Ana Gligorijević, vice governor – 429.935 dinars, Mira Erić Jović – 409.745,26 dinars without taxes and contributions, Bojan Marković, this supervisor who received a degree abroad – 429.935,82 dinars, Gordana Petković, Secretary-General – 423.962,67 dinars, Bosko Zivković, President of the Board of Governors – 192.908 dinars, Milojko Arsić – 154 thousand, Costa Josifidis – 154 thousand, Zorica Mladenov – 154, Nenad Munjak – 154. The average salary in the NBS is 83.5 thousand dinars. Whoever you propose, they'll choose him, his job is to keep his mouth shut, not to say anything. Since we're done with the National Bank, I'm talking to those who are poor by statistics, they don't work, I remind you, net earnings of 35,777 dinars. There are two large lists on the Government of Serbia's website. These are pay lists with 26 February 2009. What happened in the meantime, we expect the government to republish. When it comes to public enterprises, JAT "Erveys", director receives 379 thousand, 11 average salaries received in 2009, and average in March 2011. With these agencies, the Central Register, the director received 355,205 dinars on February 26th 2009, when you finally announced Dragan Todorovic, but there are no reports of a budget inspection anywhere. Excuse me, please, who here has authorized you to expose the citizens of the Republic of Serbia this much? Do you see what personnel policy is like? Staff policy is based on the principle -- in Brussels the Brussels administration has to be the first one to be painted in Serbia on a suicide path towards the EU. You can see what the Serbian variant of the Brussels administration looks like – clear and cloudy. They're satisfied. The course of the dinar? What would Shoskić care about the course of the dinar? Why would Josephis care about what happens? Put a man of 152-154 thousand dinars in his pocket a month and just talk about going to the EU. Let's look at these other statistics. Are you sure that after these elections, and you're going to conduct these elections properly, that something quality new is going to happen in accordance with the law? No, it's going to happen worse. For this salary today in Serbia, everyone will be quiet. Because of these things they also happened – Darko Saric. The Securities Committee, please, they're all out of office... Srdjan Milivojevic, throws it out of place. Do you have any problems? You were authorized by Boris Tadic to throw? Did you speak for him on the Mount? Did you see how it went? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: You have passed up. The only ones up there were pigs and those sheep in the oven. Then pick up the phone, kid. I know you have to guard this regime. I know you're dying for this regime. I know you're committed to these things, but come in later. That's what Serbia is ashamed of, a fool is proud of. You can see how it goes in Serbia by itself. The specimen is a specimen. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, two things to remember. The first, largest socio-humanitarian organisation is the National Bank of Serbia. They swim on money. I showed you just a few details, I didn't want to go into any deeper analysis, then you'd all be amazed. Although I hope to inform you more in this way and that you will be better informed than Mr. Novakovic, since he obviously doesn't even know what's on the agenda, as Mr. Djelic did yesterday, he talked about the indexation of excises, and that registration fee, but well, it's the Brussels administration, these are the liquids of the Brussels administration. Of course the only party that doesn't cooperate in this is the SRS. The ones you choose, they have to agree. It's a condition for them to be elected and to be at these functions. Just remember what happened to that Securities Commission. Let's remind ourselves that this register of charter values is now, my people, making some revenue on some of their tariffs. Look, how many directors of the Securities Register have a salary. And the people, you forgot only about the people, you forgot about the citizens. We need to remind ourselves of why this kind of human policy is being conducted and why the National Assembly is being released from work. It's the same situation in the judiciary, the same situation in the D.A.'s office. You're in the same situation everywhere. Why? Because it's copying an extermination model, a high-administration, where man is a statistical figure that is taken from time to time into some kind of research. Before the elections, six months, courtship takes place like that, a 1,000-euro free action, or I don't know what else is mentioned. I would not be surprised if Tadic now took a broom to clean, not just a vacuum cleaner, just to fool the citizen, to preserve this and to continue on the road to the EU, towards self-destruction of the Republic of Serbia. This may be a little bit off from a stereotype discussion about names and last names, but the man who resigned as a member of the Securities Committee said quite a bit about the commission – reject 50%. Make it 60% that it's a professorial vanity, so let the rest be rejected, so let's just stay 1%, and that 1% is too much, because it indicates the structure of the government, why there are institutions, who are in those institutions, whose interests are being realised through these institutions. To repeat from the beginning, 7.3 million citizens of the Republic of Serbia who received a net salary in March of 35,777 dinars, who on average last year needed 42,500 dinars only to survive, you, you cannot be satisfied. But you have no right, because of your children, to agree and to cooperate and to take uncritically for granted what some, like the golden Bozidar Djelic or someone else, are epochally declaring - here's to reaching out for the hand, only we haven't caught him yet. There's the EU. We're entering October, maybe November. If it's not in November, maybe December. If it's not this year, maybe next year. If it's not next year, then 2020. In waiting for something good, we lost everything. You saw yesterday from that debate, you prefer a sheet on buses that are Japanese donations than KIM. No wonder what Marco just read, what it says in our history books. There's lost the national thing, there's something planetary going on. All of you who want to change history and facts, apply to Brammertz, you can be witnesses and warlocks. Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55009	Before the search is concluded, I ask whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I warn the MPs that the Rules of Procedure do not allow or tolerate to throw away, internal verbally loud communication. In that case, pursuant to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint single search on the Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS, a summary list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Council for Culture, a summary list of candidates for members of the National Educational Council, a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Council for Higher Education and a proposal for a decision to suspend the role of a member of the Commission for Securities. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on ID card (principles) pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, has called for the principled review of the 16th item of the agenda – the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card, in addition to the representatives of Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, to attend the sittings of Milorad Todorovic, the Secretary of the MUP. You've received the bill of law passed by the government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to a relatively number of MPs of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia, G17 plus and Together for Shumadija - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a parliamentary group of PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Željko Tomic, MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Petar Jojic of the MP SRS. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. I welcome the minister, welcome and welcome, and members of the government. Do you, Mr. Dacic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the experience in the five-year application of the Personal Card Act, which was brought in 2006, which introduced a large newspaper into the making, content and use of ID cards, above all from the technological point of view and the introduction of microcontrollers, or chips, indicates that some provisions need to be amended and some introduced into the law, as we announced last year. The main reason is the extension of the period of importance of the identity card issued before the entry into force of the applicable ID card Act, as well as those issued under the applicable law, which states that their period of validity is 27 July 2011. Namely, the Personal Card Act was adopted on 19 July 2006, and entered into force on 27 July 2006, starting to apply after the end of six months from the date of entry into force, i.e. of 27 January 2007 Given that technical and other options have not been provided for the application of this law, Article 36. The ID Regulation, which was adopted on 30 January 2007, stipulates that the ID card may be issued under the earlier applicable sublaws, with the period of validity of the ID card being no longer than five years from the date of entry into force of this law, i.e. July 27, 2011. The interior ministry, when technical and other conditions were obtained, began issuing biometric ID cards on 14 April 2008. In accordance with the applicable ID code, more than two million and 800 thousand ID cards have been issued so far, of which about two million with a chip and 800 thousand without chips. However, most citizens did not replace ID cards issued in the old form, and there is a large number of ID cards for importance by July 27th 2011. By this date, it is technically impossible to replace them, which by law is the expiry of their period of validity. In this regard, and in order for citizens to replace ID cards, we suggest that you issue ID cards on both these grounds and cases apply the longest until 31 December 2016. The next reason which affected the proposed interventions in the law refers to the characteristics of microcontrollers i.e. chip(s) to be incorporated into the identity card form. How the Ministry can now install technically better chips than those years when it started, it is proposed that ID cards be issued with a longer period of validity, as I announced earlier, ten years instead of five years old, and children at five years instead of two years. The technical characteristics of the chip provide the possibility to enter also qualified electronic certificates of the holder and the relevant data for the formation of a qualified electronic signature, so that the ID card can also be used as a means of forming a qualified electronic signature, in accordance with the Electronic Signature Act and the Data Signing Regulation. Furthermore, the reason for the proposed amendments and additions is linked to the possibility of using the ID as a travel document, if provided for by international regulations. The obligation to apply for children, with the request for the issue of an identity card, to the consent of another parent, i.e. One who does not apply for a ID card is proposed to prevent abuses that were said in public, that one parent, without the knowledge of another parent who is also exercising parental law, would take the child abroad. As a result of using the ID card as a travel document, it is proposed that data on the last name and name of the holder of the ID card can be entered in addition to Cyrillic letter in a Latin letter. Of course, there is also a similar application of other provisions of the Law on travel documents concerning the issue and use of ID cards as travel documents. Other amendments and additions are also proposed, the possibility for citizens over 65 years of life, on their request, to issue a personal card without a limited period of validity, but on a form that does not contain a microcontroller, or chip, then issuing a personal card based on a fixed stay with a period of validity of two years, issuing a personal card by accessing the competent authority of data in the Central System for Electronic Processing and Data Storage, i.e. by means of an insight into the records of the state authorities, then different improvements in the procedure of advertising of the personal card invalidity. All these proposed changes and complement the intention to facilitate obtaining and using ID cards. Given that this is not a law that has any political consensus, I really think that it is of interest for everyone to support the adoption of this amendment law and the additions of the Law on the ID card, above all, of interest and of citizens whose service we are in, or in whose service we are in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55011	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Do the representatives of the committees responsible, the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55012	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, looks sad when the deputy prime minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister and interior minister speaks to so few representatives of the ruling coalition. I don't think that's going anywhere in Europe. Interest in this agenda point and this previous one is minimal in the ruling coalition MPs, which the camera can record. The ID law was made in 2006 and voted in the National Assembly, as I recall, without a single vote against. He's not in his own right. I must say, as an opposition, that these changes and additions to the ID Act are not in itself controversial, there are indeed some indications that it is about strengthening quality and speeding up the issue of ID cards, etc. However, in light of today's events, this law still needs to challenge a certain kind of public attention. Today in the Serbian Parliament, we had a public debate on illegal asylum seekers. As far as tomorrow, European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso and EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan File are staying in Belgrade to deal with these issues. The ID card is needed for every citizen of the Serbian state to get a passport, and we are witnessing the abuse of passports, but we are Gods and witnesses of the abuse of the ID card, and that is what these events had to see in the light of today's events that certain aspects of prevention were introduced into the law because no one could have expected this problem to become so great, that EU leaders also tackled it. Today and in this room, we must talk about illegal asylum seekers, or false asylum seekers. The way they came up with the ID must be learned, as this compromises all citizens of Serbia, not just them personally. Mr Dacic said he would ask the EU for an opinion on the extent to which passports are taken per year or two. Dacic said in the press, following a meeting with the Ministry of Interior, that one of the measures would be to introduce a database and a record of false asylum seekers to be made with the assistance of the countries in which they sought asylum, etc. There's no database yet. I expected it to be long ago, at least two years ago, when we, the DSS MPs, pointed out the problem of issuing fake ID cards, not just passports. That's what I'm saying. There's no prevention, we're dealing with consequences. Now we have a huge problem for European officials as well. The Serbian government assures us that there will be changes to the Criminal Code that will allow for more effective sanctioning of human trafficking and tourist agencies that allow false asylum seekers to go to the EU. During the group trips there were abuses, the authorities now acknowledge it. That's what we've been talking about here in the first place, whether or not all those who organize group trips will be punished and abuses will occur. The possibility of imposing certain sanctions for those who tried to abuse the white Schengen is considered. When this government was on the takeoff, the word white Schengen was the key that opened all the doors, so it seemed. Today, the white Schengen issue is also being raised, not by the opposition, but by European officials. That's why tomorrow the top state executives will speak to both Barroso and Phil. To apply for asylum further cannot be a criminal offence, no matter how unfair a request may be. Very interesting. The question arises whether the EU is right not to provide false asylum data to Serbian authorities. It should be noted that Romania and Bulgaria have prevented hundreds of thousands of their citizens, mostly Roma, from travelling abroad in the first year after EU visas were lifted for those countries, assessing that there is a possibility that these citizens could be illegally employed abroad and set up requirements for the granting of political asylum. In other words, the whole ethnic group was exposed to collective measures of discrimination, and attention should be paid to that. Everyone kept quiet about it, EU countries, countries where these people were from, and most human rights organisations in those countries. Similarly, to a much smaller extent, the SFRJ State Administration tried at the end of the 1980s, except that such a practice against Roma and Albanians was praised by a competent official of the then federal interior secretariat in an interview with the German newspaper, and a scandal broke out. The problem of fake ID cards in Medvedja, Bujanovac and Presje's MPs pointed to the DSS more than two years ago. It was moving with its hand, and I repeat, it was on the take-off, and I'm afraid that now your downward path is pretty steep, and that now and tomorrow when Barroso and Phil read you a note, let me put it that way, it won't matter to you. But I have nothing personal from compromising this government. It is unfortunate that such behaviour has compromised all citizens of Serbia, and so do we, personally, if we look at it that way. It is also important to note, Mr. Minister, here is an example of not having the opportunity to hear a different voice, you put that in Article 10 of Section 4 of the amendment and it is said: "for a minor and business incompetent person the request is submitted by one of the parents, with the written consent of the other parent" which has not been the case so far, so both parents must participate in the submission of a request for an ID card. It's an amendment to the DSS during the last amendment to this law. You turned him down. Today you put it in your own to say so, I mean it's our course, a proposal to amend and supplement the I.D. Act. Of course it was too much, of course it was too much today. It's the government's relationship with the opposition. I'll remind you, recently, you know better than anyone here, that it's recently in Nis, and how much yesterday we read in the press in Leskovec, that they've been arrested, it seems to me, the workers of the MUP for abuse of their position, and they've been issuing ID cards based on fictitious contracts on buying houses, without checking out purchase contracts. What I'm saying is that they abuse the issue of ID cards and whatever it is. I repeat, you can't have a passport if you don't have a ID. You have, and you yourself said, microcontrollers, chips, you have the possibility of registering citizens, so you just have to have a bit of an enhanced operation and a list of so-called. false asylum seekers. Abuses of the issue of IDs, passports, in general, could have been for these two or three years of your authority, and how, if not quite prevented, let's say rather complicated, and then greatly reduced, or at the very least. It's not done. We warned you when the white Schengen finally came to Serbia, but your ears were drumming, there was some sort of fame in your ears that you would rule forever, that white Schengen was just one of the reasons why you won the election, but look what's going on today. There is no one who cannot abuse the documents of the Republic of Serbia for false asylum. Let's see where the prevention lies, where there's a solution, and let's talk it all over.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55013	The word is Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55014	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, as far as the proposal for this law on amendments and amendments to the law is concerned, this could be accepted as a unique example to intervene in one law when we change and supplement it in one smaller segment and scope. Indeed, there are few amendments and additions in this proposal, but there are amendments that are not acceptable and as such should not enter into the law and be applied. The SRS has submitted several amendments, first of all to Article 5, where we have suggested that in the position of two citizens over 60 years of life, a personal card may be issued on its request without a limit of the period of validity of the form and does not contain a microchip. As for Article 8, he is controversial and we suggest that he be deleted. What I'm saying is that it's enough that with permanent validity, a citizen can be issued a personal card when he's 60 years old. As for Article 5, and there are problems here, they consist of citizens now being exposed to the great abuses and shaggings that all documents need to be obtained and shown to the official person when handing over applications for the issue of ID cards. We believe that the proposed solution is unacceptable and that there was a better solution in the previous provision of the basic law, not only that, but even better regulated by the 1995 ID. You see the IDs have been changed since the release, from World War II to today, almost 10 times. As for Article 19a in paragraph 2, we have suggested that the citizen has the right to lodge an appeal because it is guaranteed by the Constitution. That is why I have also suggested on behalf of the SRS that the possibility be added and installed in law and norm which gives the right of the citizen that he can file a complaint for the solution. As far as the chip is concerned, we know that the ID card is a means of identifying the identity. In practice, for 25 years, I've had the opportunity to use identification based on various citizens' IDs and, above all, ID cards and passports. More rarely based on a driver's license or a health book. As far as this chip is concerned, it's one tool that, on our occasion and in the SRS' view, cannot be accepted and we are against such a solution. Why? It destroys privacy, allows for the collection of vast numbers of data in police computers about our lives and work. Furthermore, they are destroying state sovereignty because the decision to introduce it was not brought by free debate in democratic Serbia, but by one of the international centres of power that has prejudice and negative stereotypes about our citizens. This way, I.D.'s become an internal passport without which we can't move anywhere. Losing or stealing ID leads a man to serious problems, and state databases are insecure. That insecure and unsecured are best confirmed by events, and above all, these events lately, the most drastic thing that has happened in Nis. Unconscious database supervisors can sell them to those interested in commercial and other purposes. A precondition is being created for a totalitarian state that will monitor every step of its citizens. Predicting opportunities, even taking fingerprints in the middle of the street or in a public place is an irresistible reminder of the check of the trade mark, as the basic civic virtues described in Domanovic's "Danga" satire. Two hundred years after Karadjord, one of us, I mean from the West, America and the EU again, wants us in Serbia to make paradise. That's why we think it's necessary to refuse an I.D. card with an installation into an electronic data processing system. We don't think, Mr. Minister, that this is how you're going to do what we point out to be serious complaints, but it can happen in practice that there will be abuse of that data being processed and collected. Many countries in the world have not yet introduced electronic data processing into this range. Electronic data processing, as regards our citizens' personal data, should contain: name and last name, father's name, place of birth, place of residence, and prove, with the help of assurance of citizenship and birth certificate. It would be a guarantee that there will never be any abuse of electronic data processing. This is how the Constitution guarantees, for decades and decades in the former Yugoslavia and Serbia, these data were decisive and basic on the basis of which personal documents were issued, and above all personal card, passport, driver's license, and sometimes if a ID card and health card were to be shown. These data that are now being collected are being collected with those instruments that this country, according to our data, has paid dearly. There's a question of justification for investment, if it's true, and I would ask Mr. Minister to give me an answer, that nearly 200 million marks were given for the purchase of equipment, the motorolas for the collection of these data and for their processing. I may be wrong, I may not have the exact information, but there was a rumor that these assets and that technique were obtained, that they stood in warehouses for a long time and that they cost a lot. As regards the protection of personal data, it must cover all entities that collect, process, use and store such data. All legal and natural persons must be informed of their rights and obligations relating to the protection of personal data. What is important is that each person whose data is collected must be informed of how and for which purposes it is further made available to its collected or admitted data. Calling for the fact that the police will be more effective is not an acceptable explanation. It is not acceptable to compare it with other institutions. At times, administrations of many institutions, such as the police, or the SUP, then the court, health care, education, ended manually faster, simpler, more effective and more efficient data processing, but now with those cherries that we buy, imposed by the EU, even if they cost 200 million marks. There is a question of responsibility for whoever obtained it, if those funds are so paid. What is very characteristic and what should you, as minister, do? I don't know now, you can tell us how many officials in Serbia are authorized to monitor and control the police administrations' personal data from our citizens, who have been collected in both of these ways. Second, there's no criminal responsibility in the law. You know, today in the world, many countries refuse to introduce identification cards. England had one of those cards for a while, but the Lords of England's upper house abolished them, as well as the President of France, because they found it to be the number of abuses, which directly and deeply affectes the privacy of citizens, their humiliation and abuses, and especially in payment traffic, where hackers enter the data system, although you may say that no one will be able to enter the police data processing system. You know what, I don't believe that. When hackers and WikiLeaks have managed to get into the Pentagon and collect a number of data, then there is a fear that the data of our citizens will be easily misused. Imagine now, you're giving authority to an officer that he's on the street taking fingerprints. That's really unacceptable. Secondly, many of these data can be abused by being rewarded, as many will, in particular, be tycoons, or intelligence services, interested in the personal data of ministers, Prime Minister, Prime Minister, President of the Republic, People's MPs and other citizens, be interested in their database. You know what that is? It's your scanner. It's microsurgery in this area. This allows users and interested persons to know exactly, Mr. Dacic, the color of your voice, the number of red blood cells, the number of white cells, how many hands, how many fingers, eye space, nose size, forehead width, etc. These are biometric data that are now combined together in electronics. I don't think this is the time, and I don't think it was necessary to approach this kind of operation. You know, many international regulations and conventions guarantee citizens the right to privacy. This way, privacy is lifted. We can now act and talk freely to accept Europe, to enter Europe, because Europe is asking us and everything it asks us to do, we must kneel to accept it. Some matchmakers come to us from the EU, some referents come to us and listen to even the president of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Minister. You can imagine, he says – Brammertz came, Serbia was shaking. Phil came to the Assembly to give us a lecture. So, please, did Serbia come to such a situation that it must obey everyone's orders? No, Serbia is not obliged to obey such orders. There are many things in this area that need to be arranged or otherwise set up, so that Serbian citizens have protection and trust in the authorities. Citizens should have the right to be informed, the right to use data properly, access rights and insight, the right to correction if any of the wrong data has been entered in the electronic data processing and the right to legal means. When I say right to a remedy, Mr. Minister, it means – if someone has made a decision that the data of a citizen or of a tycoon can be delivered to a tycoon, and the tycoon is looking for them, it looks for them and says – I am interested in the data of Peter Petrovic, how much money there is, how many houses there are, how many companies, how many people there are, how much profit they make, how much taxes they pay, how much taxes they didn't pay, how many land and how many family members there are, and how much data they go. A citizen whose data are now being forwarded to an unauthorized person has the right to appeal to the competent authority, and the competent authority to correct that error as soon as possible, abolish the decision and solution, and thus protect the general rights of our citizens. This capacity and the rights conferred in principle should serve as a formal framework and a comprehensive basis for defining and building a system of privacy and information protection. Then, the principle of limited data collection. The data quality principle. Personality data must be relevant for the needs for which they are collected, and in the extent necessary for those needs, and must be accurate, complete and up-to-date. The need-specific principle - the needs for which personal data are collected must be specified prior to the collection of the data itself, and their subsequent use limited only to meeting specific needs or needs that are not compatible with the specific needs. The principle of limited use – personality data should not be disclosed, available or used for other purposes that are not specified in accordance with previous principles and concepts, except with the consent of the entity or on the basis of legal powers. The protection principle – personality data must be protected by reasonable measures against the risk of loss, unauthorized access, destruction, modification or disclosure. The principle of openness, the principle of individual participation... (President: Thank you very much, but it's been a long time. I'm just getting started, I'm halfway there, but thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55015	It was interesting to me, too. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search, the application for a word, in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted by the SRS and SNS parliamentary groups. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55016	Because time goes by so that when someone gives a speech after leaving the session, I don't know how to answer it, so I can take this opportunity. In any case, when it comes to the I.D., the I.D. Act was passed, as we said, in 2006. Then it was defined what Mr. Jojic was talking about, the chip, and then there were discussions, as you know, whether it was good or not. There were arguments both for and against. Two million of our citizens took a ID card with a chip and 800,000 without a chip. On the other hand, you have passports that are all exclusively biometric and exclusively with a chip. It is simply a technology that has been applied at this stage to regulate how to make travel documents in Europe. I don't think anyone asked that question when it came to passports, because there were no other options. When it comes to data on the chip and police records, they're much smaller than data that exist on the e.g. withdrawal of payment cards or credit cards. I've never heard of anyone challenging the use of credit cards. After all, you know that all those who want to follow someone have followed them backwards for decades on the use of payment and credit cards. Anyway, it's very difficult and it's almost impossible for someone to abuse the database. When it comes to members of the MUP who are authorized to use these databases, every time they use that database, and so do I, it stays in the record that he did and stayed in memory, I mean for a few years. There's always a record of whether and who used that data. This is not about operational analysis related to intelligence, it is about the basic data that exist: birthplace, address, residence, record of crimes committed, offences or criminal acts, etc. Why is it proposed to extend the validity of ID cards? Because those days bought chips that could have been used for five years. When they were spent, I talked about it before, my goal was to extend the importance of ID cards to 10 years because it's normal and there's no reason for ID cards to be valid for five years, I think it's been 10 years before. Also, we have allowed old citizens to take permanent tickets, and we will also enable all those, and that is already done, but also officially to say, who are immobilized, sick, they will be reached by representatives of the MUP to take all the data. We have extended the importance for another five years, until the end of those old. New ID cards on old forms are not issued, so all those who have old ID cards can use them until their expiry, followed by the release of new ones. These changes and additions are, above all, aimed at improving the conditions under which citizens can replace ID cards, because it is impossible to replace this number of ID cards in such a short time, as provided for by this law, and it has been five years. So, once again to remind you, since Mr. Tomic has left, false asylum seekers and the issue of irregularities when it comes to issuing personal documents are two separate topics. False asylum seekers are mostly not the ones who received ID cards and passports in this way. Every Serbian citizen, whether his ID was issued in Pristina or Belgrade, has the right to a passport. The total number of those seeking a change in residence ranged about 3,000 for the past year and a half, from KIM to other parts of Serbia, not only Albanians but Serbs and all others. Those who have made it possible for someone to make a false change in their residence are arrested and these arrests are done regularly. It is about abuses within the framework of the MUP and other state authorities, such as in the case of parent books, but also among citizens who issue false beliefs that someone is living with them, etc. It's a separate story from a fake asylum. False asylum seekers are different topics and they are not related to the issue of abuse in the process of issuing ID cards. When it comes to measures against false asylum seekers, we are, on the one hand, forced to apply certain sharp measures and, on the other hand, to make sure that we do not violate their human rights, by the same centres, means the EU. On the one hand, we need to make sure that the number of asylum seekers, which in the last few months is smaller than they have been, on the other hand, not to approach any racist approach, so that there is discrimination against one national community. In line with this, I will hold talks, and today I have meetings with representatives of the Albanian national community, and I will have these days and with Roma, to find the best way to overcome the problem. As far as I'm concerned, no one's coming to cross me from the EU. It's about what we do that we should do in our interest. I think it is no longer in the interest of anyone to join the EU than it is for us. I would not talk about these ups and downs of government and opposition, all this is relative, as well as in all other issues related to Kosovo, because I think, when it comes to Kosovo, during the government of the SPS, Kosovo has won Resolution 1244, and during the government of the party whose gentleman just spoke of my words, that I want to share Kosovo, Kosovo has declared independence and has been recognised by the world's largest states. We also tried to defend Kosovo with weapons during our government, unlike some others who only had theorised about it. If I'm the only one talking about us approaching this problem, it's not a topic today, but since it's mentioned I have to answer that subject, because now we've come to a situation that will eventually turn out to be me and the SPS who will be charged with betraying Kosovo. Thank God we all want Kosovo to stay in Serbia. We have to fight for it, but we will not fight it by moving our families to Belgrade, not by setting fire to an embassy or by just going to the pier, but by having to deal with much more serious issues to preserve our people at KIM. My influence in this country is 7.6%, how many votes we won in the election. I said what I said, and I think there's a lot of solutions, they're just, maybe fairer, but maybe they're not more real. On the other hand, I call on others to say their opinions, their suggestions on how we're going to solve it, because in a year, maybe what I'm talking about won't be realistic. Anyway, I represent the government policy and this assembly, and I'd like to keep those topics out of the way with the subject we're talking about today. I'm ready to schedule a session of parliament on this point and we're absolutely not running away from it. Tomislav Nikolic attacked me yesterday to speak differently from the government, and I remain in the government. He stayed in the government when the SRS said it was against Resolution 1244. Did you then say it was a betrayal of national interests, so you stayed in the government for another year, and Toma Nikolic stayed in the government? Why didn't he leave the Serbian government when he disagreed? Now everybody says, "Dacic can't say that, he's breaking Resolution 1244." Anyway, I don't impose my attitude on anyone, nor do I think what I'm saying is real, not because I don't think it's good, but unfortunately, I think some people think that this question has been resolved long ago, and we certainly can't just solve it here. As far as we're concerned, none of us has changed our attitude. I don't think there are any Serbs, no politicians who will recognise Kosovo's independence. Serbia should also take care of Serbs living in KIM and if there are no more, we may have different topics to discuss. So I'm asking you not to confuse these topics, because then we're going to have a controversy that someone else should initiate, not like this in the last sentences of our speech, and then we're going to go out and we can't talk about it afterwards. After all, I didn't say it first. Some others said it. Dobrica Cosic, who is the main guest at all DSS meetings, said others. Anyway, it's a matter of thought and it's nobody ever, I haven't used the issue of partitioning Kosovo. But they want to share Serbia, not let Kosovo be divided. Now someone who declared independence from Serbia, and Serbia disagreed, now the US ambassador to Pristina says what Dacic is saying -- that is the 19th century. So it's the 21st century when Kosovo declares independence from Serbia, and when Serbs in Kosovo say they won't live in that artificial creation, it's the 19th century. They're against it not because they think it's wrong, but because they think the thing is solved and they don't have to give anything, they'll get everything, and we'll lose everything. We can't lose everything. If we don't want to lose everything we have to have rational access to all of this. I think maybe with one such approach we can save a significant part of it and make a compromise in which everyone will get a little bit of what they didn't want, but we will protect our national and state interests, the interests of our people living down there. I absolutely don't accept anyone pointing a finger at the SPS and me personally when it comes to KIM. When KIM was declared independent, I was in Gracanica, with the people, with my car. He was also Velija Ilic, but he came with KFOR. Those who say that they will sue me, arrest me, etc., I call on them to keep their pre-election rallys in the centre of Pristina, in Kacanic, in Glogovec, to show the sovereignty of Serbia, and not here with heroism on round tables, but by providing themselves with reserve positions elsewhere in Serbia. That's what I'm saying because I don't have a chance to answer them, except here in front of all of Serbia and all of Serbia's citizens. This is not a proposal to betray Serbia and divide Kosovo, but to save and save Serbs in Kosovo and to save Serbia from a national debacle in which it can come unless it leads a policy that will look ahead rather than just be bound by chains to our past, which has not been good in the last few years or decades. It was my interest to start this topic at all, to preserve what we can still do, because when we can't anymore, the Serbs in Kosovo will have an interest in what we will call a Serbian Constantinople in which there will be no Serbs. That's my personal opinion, not even an SPS position. They can rule me out if they think I was wrong. But anyway, I think most Serbian citizens feel it that they think we should come. I will say only this, Milosevic spoke with representatives of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska before it was Z4 and before it was the Dayton Agreement. They wouldn't accept the peace plans. They thought they'd get more. Republika Srpska had 70% territory at the time, perhaps more. Milosevic told them – diplomacy, you fought a war, you have to finish the story diplomatically. Krajina, Croats and Muslims fell a few miles to Banja Luka. Today there is no more Republika Srpska; there is, I say, in institutions no longer located in the territory of Republika Srpska. It was my motive to absolutely run and say what I said. After all, I can never change the will of most Serbian citizens who will plead when the time comes. Everyone has the right to say anything about it. But I won't, and no one has the right to say that this proposal is aimed at the betrayal of Serbia. No, he is aimed at saving Serbia and the Serb people living on KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55017	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the participation of MPs according to the schedule of MPs declared by the People's MPs in the principle of a review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card. I give my word to the Faith Radetti.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is indisputable for everyone to talk about the division of Kosovo and Metohija is the harshest step towards the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and it is completely irrelevant who said it first, second or fifth. When it comes to the draft law amending the Law on the ID card, let's just in the context of what Mr Dacic was talking about, to remind ourselves that the Law on the ID card in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia was passed in 2006 and then presented as an epochal discovery, as something and then what we have to do because the EU is looking for us, because if we pass this law, if we chip Serbian citizens, we fly into the EU by some fast train. One of the series of frauds that the EU is all about, and the SRS thinks Serbia must never enter the EU, because it is the EU that questioned KIM and whose largest number of members have recognised Kosovo's false state. This should be taken into account by all, both the representatives of the government and the representatives of the opposition, no matter which subject it is to speak and whatever law it is. If the I.D. Act that was passed in 2006 was the best thing that could have been done, then the question is, why are we changing this law today? If that wasn't so good, then we ask the question – why haven't we changed it so far? What is changing and supplementing this law does not constitute any fundamental change in relation to what we had in 2006, but it speaks of, of course, the inability of the ruling regime to apply the law whatever it is, because of course we can talk about the law and criticise it, to say that it is not good, to make remarks, etc., but when the law is passed then it must and be applied. It explains that in 2006, this law introduced large newspapers in the production, content and use of ID cards, primarily from the technological point of view and the introduction of microcontrollers or chips. Now, come on, if it's a paper in the works, contained in ID cards, let's understand that, but we don't understand what kind of newspaper it is in the use of ID cards? In the same way, ID cards and those that are still valid, as well as those with a chip, as well as those without a chip, are used, at least as far as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are concerned. But, let's say, there's a problem with state authorities. To remind us that the last elections in 2008 were held in a situation where most polling stations did not have a chip-reading device on their ID cards, which means the possibility of abuse, the possibility of stealing in the elections. It wasn't a dispute for you at the time, and we talked about the problem in 2006, among other things. When you start a business as a state, as a competent state authority, you must be prepared in advance to bring this job to an end within a reasonable period, not to remember after six years what may have been a mistake and that, as in this law, some amendments that the MPs of the SRS have submitted in 2006 are being incorporated. You are insecure and irresponsible power in many ways. Serbian citizens know perfectly what problems they face when they go to draw new ID cards and new passports. And today, this many years, since 2006, since these new ID cards started, and today people have to come at five o'clock in the morning, to wait for order in the municipal MUP, to get a ID card, so they bring in those little benches, and then they come up for two, and then one sits, and the other comes out for a little walk, and then they switch, and so on, to hold that line. I really don't know what gentlemen who are here instead of government representatives are funny in this? This is absolutely true, you know it's true. Ask the citizens of Serbia, whoever took out the ID, if he didn't have a good relationship in the SUP, how long did he spend in line to get his ID? The same goes for the passport. You're completely irresponsible, I don't mean you personally, I mean the representatives of the regime, and you're certainly part of that regime. You also say in your explanation that implementing this law does not require additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This isn't true. It's impossible not to require additional funds. If this law applies, which I suppose it will, it stands here that it will take effect on the eighth day of the day of its publication in the Official Messenger. After all, the minister said ten minutes ago that chips were purchased at the time. Now some new chips have to be bought. Is that a gift or are you buying it? Why do you deceive us when you say no additional funds are needed in the budget, as we are deceived when this law is passed, the basic text of this law, which we are changing today. It is proposed that this law be passed by emergency procedure, you say, for the reason that, under the current law, a large number of citizens in the legal obligation to replace a ID card whose expiry date expires on 27 July 2011 and which is necessary to extend the period of validity of those ID cards until 31 December 2016, since most citizens have so far not replaced their identity card issued in the old form. This also disagrees with the numbers the minister spoke of earlier. He was talking about some million citizens who took the chips, I guess two million, one million ink. How many people do Serbia have now and how many adults and how many of those whose ID cards have been issued earlier on an indefinite period of time? This is just not true. The truth is, the state wasn't prepared to do this job within the time frame of the bill. Nothing's been done. Representatives of the current regime and the current government have done nothing. Come on, let's just say that they haven't done the job right since 2006 and 2008, but here you are from 2007 to 2011, and this is just saying that you're exactly the same, just at some point you're different. Now, the combustion. In your explanation, you say, gentlemen of the government - we believe it is necessary to consider the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the ID card by an urgent procedure in the National Assembly. Since when has this bill been discussed in the National Assembly? Do you even know what the draft is, what the proposal is, what is the final text of the law? This is just talking about what we've been talking about for years, that you, humming on that tragic path to the EU, are getting bill proposals, translation, and then a bad translator translates the draft instead. Unserious, even in this formal sense more than unserious. Now that we're talking about these members that are changing, so he says, a personal card is being issued with no idea what period of validity, that I'm not wasting my time, that's what we're going to do when we talk about details. But what's the essential question? What about already issued valid ID cards? If a 10-year-old kid gets his ID card now with a five-year-old validity date, what about those who got it with a two-year-old validity date, and it hasn't expired yet, they took it out yesterday? Are you aware of the problems you're making in your practical life? Will that child, or a minor, who uses a ID card, be able to use it if she is not in conformity with this law when this law comes into force or will you force your parents to pay again and harass themselves to wait nine hours in order to take the child's ID card? Really, you don't think at all and act like you don't live in Serbia, as if you don't know how citizens live, what are the problems of Serbian citizens. You need to enjoy yourself a little bit, finally starting to pass laws for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in circumstances in which the Republic of Serbia is. You intend on the people of the EU and their orders, their laws. You see we're in black hanging. Keep in mind that you are the Government of the Republic of Serbia, take care of it a little bit. We're also talking about a new pattern here. The same question - what about the old form, if we're talking about a new one, or what about the ID cards that were issued on, you're already calling this an old form? Now, a few remarks, I said, we're going to talk specifically about these members of the law when it comes to discussion in particular, but let's remind ourselves, when it comes to these chipped ID cards and passports, as much as it was then, and all that means to chipped citizens of Serbia, in fact, how much you boasted that these were the preconditions for putting Serbia on the white Schengen list, so here we get, too, and on the white Schengen list for a short while, it looks, since it's obviously going to be quick to take us down. We talked about it, and now we repeat, no one in their right mind has anything against the free visa regime, nothing is disputed, but you deceived Serbian citizens when you convinced them how good it would be to get Serbian citizens off the white Schengen list. The result of your deception is these asylum seekers and this problem that we are now facing, because you never publicly wanted to tell the citizens of Serbia that putting on the white Schengen list does not mean that someone can go abroad to get a job, that someone can go abroad to stay longer than some deadline that is exactly intended for him. So you just lied to the people and now you have this problem, people think we're put on a white Schengen list, no visas, I can go somewhere in the white world to work. We told people not to believe you, that you were cheating, that you were lying, and now this turned out to be absolutely right. Besides, here, you can see that the Schengen agreement is slowly disappearing in practice. It is already widely announced that members of the Schengen agreement will put limits, restrict their countries, which, of course, is normal, the only thing that is not normal in the state of Serbia. While others are starting to take more care of their borders, you are disintegrating Serbia, you are talking about the division of Kosovo and Metohija, you are taking care of what is being ordered from the EU and because of this terrible road to the EU day after day everything in Serbia is going down and gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55019	I give the word to Ambassador Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55020	So, we are witnessing in this National Assembly a common practice by this authority in these three years that this National Assembly is being submitted with the proposals of many laws, all with the reason that this bill is the best, that this bill is European, that it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and that these and such laws are one of the conditions for a better life. In 2006. After adopting a proposal for this basic law, whose amendment and addition today is required in this House, something similar has been said. So this law also tells that he is the best, that he is European, that he is in the interest of citizens and that he is one of the conditions that all of this could work better. We from the SRS regularly, and clearly and reasonedly, speak to you in the context of the submission of these legal proposals, criticising them that they are not good mostly, that they are not in the interests of Serbian citizens but simply in the interest of the EU project and of this new world order which you are seeking mainly to make those legal proposals or improve them or to withdraw them from the procedure. The practice is that you almost always remain silent on everything we're looking for. It turns out after a while, as it turns out with this I.D. law, that he's not the best, that he's not the most European, that these laws aren't exactly in the best interest of citizens, and then you're asking here to change and supplement those laws. That's right with this I.D. law. In Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on ID cards requires a change of Article 8 of the basic law and this change provides that the ID card form contains a microcontroler chip and a space for a machine-readable area for the purposes of automatic data-reading. This is required in point 1. At the same time, a sentence has been said by one smart head that says that the time is coming when everyone will have to take a passport or a ID card to their backyard. This is all because the world is closing in the ghetto. So, after many years, after a sentence like this, he couldn't imagine what today's ID cards would contain, especially the fact that today's personal cards will contain these microcontrollers or chips, but, behold, European practice brings us this and that, it brings us that newspaper, that famous chip. It would be really interesting if we heard from the minister that he said something about parallel practice when it comes to the introduction of these chips, at least in the EU countries you are so keen on. Do all EU countries look favorably at these microcontrollers or chips, is there somewhere in countries and the EU, and in others we know that there is certainly, and resistance to this, as well as all the data that is being entered into the ID cards and how many countries have brought these chips into their ID cards so far? What's being inserted into this microcontroller? This is provided for in Article 2, where it is said – if the form contains a microcontroller or chip, it shall include all visible data on the identity card, as well as data on citizenship, residence, i.e. the residence and address of the home of its owner, the name of one parent, and a unique parent number of parents and card holders may be entered. We haven't heard from the minister that security is specifically provided for the full and adequate protection of personal data that is being entered into these chips. This would certainly be very interesting not only for the people's MPs here, but especially for citizens who need to be told whether they want to get data into their ID cards in these chips or not, so whether they want a ID card with or without chips. For those citizens who need to be told whether a qualified electronic certificate will be entered in their ID, and for the purpose of forming what these changes say is a qualified electronic signature. What kind of protection is security here? Is there, besides theoretically, a practical possibility that someone might abuse this data? We didn't hear that from the minister. How is it possible to make adequate and complete protection of this data? How many people will have access to this data? Are these people educated for such a job and are they presented with the consequences everything can come out of this? I would refer to two things the minister says about these chips. At one point, the minister referred to the fact that each passport contains this chip and no one is objecting to it. It's true that every passport contains that chip, but I'd like to ask the minister how many people come out of the country, how many people own a passport with this chip, and if it owns it, did it ever come out of the country? Of course, passport, unless you're leaving the country, it's not a mandatory document, and the ID card is. The minister goes on to say that even in credit cards mentioned by banks, they require far more data than is included in ID cards. And that's true, but you certainly know how many people in Serbia are below the poverty line, how many people in Serbia are close to that poverty line. It turns out that the greatest achievement of this government is several hundred thousand of those who have lost their jobs and one of the greatest achievements are actually containers with five stars. Unfortunately, this, if it weren't tragic and sad, would be really funny. But that's our destiny with this government. These citizens who take these credit cards from the banks, and these again ask for those data that the minister says are much more comprehensive than they are on ID cards, so they manage in every way possible. In their poverty, this credit card to them is the only way to survive in these conditions. You know, the only way to survive the poor, like that kid who, by that people's "only binds his belly button", that poor kid, and these people might be the only way to survive this credit card, so they willingly agree that the banks are looking for all this data.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55021	MP Velimir Ilic, do you advertise the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. No, you signed up, but you can't now, but when the speakers are finished, they're on the candidate list. MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on the ID card is a law that should not contain a political dimension in itself and, as the minister said, is not a political nature. However, with what the SRS MPs have been saying in support of this discussion, I can say a few more things - I tried to explain to myself first why it is accessible to the amendments and additions of the ID law. The minister said that in previous days it could be heard that the basic reason and extension of the period of validity of the ID card, both for children and adults, and because a large number of ID holders, and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are not or will certainly not arrive until July 27th of this year to replace their ID cards. The reasons for the change of the Law on ID cards can be classified into three groups from the aspect of us from the SRS. The first is to perfect the chip, the way we will know exactly, what Jojic said, and what kind of blood cells we have, and when he said in his discussion as an authorised representative of the SRS on this topic that there will be numerous abuses, the minister is responding to that remark, he pointed out - if someone from the MUP uses data, even if it was me, he and Ivica Dacic, it must remain recorded. We know that it should probably be recorded, but we know that the officials of the Ministry and of all state authorities, when writing official notes or taking any official action, had to leave a written clue about it, or some evidence that it was done. You are witnessing, several months ago, the largest number of police officers in Nis and elsewhere in Serbia what he did. Whoever can guarantee the citizens of Serbia, I am not accusing this minister or any particular employee of the MUP here at all, but it will certainly be done and no one will stop it. So that was one of the reasons. Another reason for us is the data outside of Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes what language is official. Of course, in Article 10(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to be able to use another language, provided that it is provided for by law. We here have one proposed situation under the law, that another language or another letter can be used, but I would ask that in practice not be understood and interpreted extensively, but only in cases where necessary. When you say that citizens have not been able to change or certainly won't be able to change until July this year, then you have to do one analysis, to see how many Serbian citizens there are these objective reasons and the little tax to be paid, some citizens in Serbia are not in a position to do so, and some are not because they don't want to respect positive regulations in the state of Serbia anymore. Who to force them to, when it is not respected by the ruling coalition, when it is not respected by the government, when we are passing laws that only one, two or three mayors in Serbia, so that they can at the same time be MPs and mayors in their municipalities. How and in what way, and where does the moral right of anyone in Serbia, ask Serbian citizens to obey the laws, and should they? The SRS advocates compliance with the law. I think that this would make our relations much better and different and that life in Serbia would certainly be better. The ID law has said and defined what a personal card is, who has the right, and who has the obligation and the obligation to wear and what is happening, which are the rights and powers of official state authorities, unless someone does and does. In 2006, we pointed to Mr. Milorad Todorovic, the secretary of the MUP, who was in the same position in 2006, as today. He could then hear the arguments of the SRS, which were almost as recent as today, and the arguments of some other political party MPs who were then in power, so they just proposed something like this, and some who backed the government that was at the time, and they weren't officially the parliamentary majority, but they supported the government and they all changed their relationship to this law, only the SRS remained in the same positions. When the minister made an effort to explain to his colleague Jojic that the chip was introduced in 2006, we were still giving the story and the same arguments as we do today. We don't think that's good. There's another fact, if two million ID cards were issued with a chip and 800,000 without a chip, wouldn't that suggest to Mr. Minister and the others at the M.E.P. that we should run some analysis? It is not 1% or 2%, it is a large and significant percentage of those citizens of Serbia who did not want ID cards with a chip. The current minister of the MUP was an excellent student, but apparently he didn't have any mathematics. It is not mathematics nor my strong suit, I am a graduate lawyer by profession, but he says his influence is 7.6% in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not saying I'm a better mathematician than the Home Secretary, but I'm saying his influence, and when I say his influence, I mean the SPS, his influence is 23.18%. When he was 7.60%, the SRS had 30%, but until today it is not valorized in this assembly, it is not valorized in the government. On the contrary, this government has stolen their electoral will from the SRS and Serbian citizens, and has stolen the mandates from the SRS. If this is how it is done in Parliament, if that's how it is done in the government, you didn't expect citizens in Serbia to replace their ID cards within the deadline. What those who have these ID cards and will change them will be obliged to change them in 2014 because in 2009 they came into possession of such ID cards, and those who have old forms will still be able to use it by 2016. Gentlemen of the government, you're going to have to take a little more seriously into account whose name you swear, from whom you ask for help only when the elections are and before and during your reign you don't think about them at all. It is not true, Madam President of the Assembly, that the interior minister has no other place and other opportunities to say what he has been saying to nothing, and about what he has said recently. I think he may have lost it, but anything under any circumstances, what he said about the division of KIM, it is the most severe violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, not only because he is the interior minister, which is the deputy prime minister, which is the first deputy prime minister, but it should not and should not be said by any Serbian citizen. It seems to me that the minister has been recklessly saying that Serbia must take care of the Serbs in KIM and has stopped there. We absolutely support it in the SRS. It must take care first of all of the Serbs in KIM, but should also take care of other KIM citizens, because they are Serbian citizens. If this is how it is spoken and spoken, as the interior minister has begun, we will indeed have an additional problem. I don't think that's how it should be done, because he's got opportunities outside this House and we're not connecting these two topics, because we're witnessing that when we land, maybe some insect on the shoulder of an official in the MUP, so if it's visited by a minister, it's published. So he can talk about it sometimes. But perhaps it was in time, and the interior minister had the opportunity to support the government for a time, and for three years it has been in the government, to more resolutely, more vigorously seek the application of Resolution 1244. Now it doesn't matter who was for the resolution anymore and who was against it. It is important that we have it and it is important that we keep it in place and that we demand that it be applied, not that we give up completely and go to other excursions, that we go to something else that is completely unacceptable from the point of view of the Constitution and certainly and the wishes of people living in Serbia and who do not have another country and who just want to be there. Much more seriousness is needed with this government, the minister is not there, he might be able to answer one question when he comments on refugees. The largest number of Croatian citizens, or Republika Srpska, had refugee status. In the Commissioner, they get the right to extend. In the MUP, it can be seen, it seems to me, from the amendment and addition of this law on ID cards, if it is not a Article 9a or another, now I can't find it quickly, when they go to the MUP no longer want to extend their refugee ID, it is regulated by this member who says he can get a winning card and one who has a residence in Serbia, but for the longest time in two years. In this group of people who can get a ID card, I see refugees who had refugee status, and now it's government policy, it's not the politics of the MUP, I guess that Mr and Mr Todorovic know, but it's the government's policy not to solve the refugee status in any way, that the Republic of Croatia's relationship with citizens, to Serbs who have escaped to save their heads, is not resolved and that Serbia does nothing serious to solve this problem. I think there are a few questions open here that, if the minister comes back, you will tell him, so it would be good to give an answer, not to the SRS, but to the citizens of Serbia, who would have to be informed in time and time, and how today's host in one of the shows the minister took part in, and until a few days ago you talked about Kosovo's status, and now secondly, were you cynical then or are these others now?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55023	The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55024	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, we have yet to see another cosmetic law that does not solve the essence of the matter. What's the point of things? The essence of the matter is to simplify and cheaper the process of obtaining personal documents. You do not speak in any letter of this law of any kind of simplification of the procedure, nor of the cost of the procedure. The process of obtaining personal documents is expensive and overpriced for citizens in social misery, problems, unemployment, etc. It's a great job you're working on. Don't work. This law confirms it. Now, through a few examples, I'm going to tell you why this law is unnecessary and why, in financial terms, we need to talk about this. My colleague Peric spoke about the problems of certain categories of people a few minutes ago, and I will continue to say what problems they are facing. The SRS has been saying that here for years. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution has written more e-mails to all state authorities in the Republic of Serbia, more letters, addressed, pointed to this problem, however, there is no help, and it is very simple, I would even say legally possible and legally binding for you, both under the provisions of international law and under the provisions of the applicable legislation in the Republic of Serbia. The Convention on the Status of Refugees of State Authorities of Reception States, we are an acceptable state, I think of the Republic of Serbia, requires a mild relationship, simplification of the procedure and acceptance of documents that have been expelled, in this case by genocide policy, both in BiH, both in Croatia and in KIM, ethnic cleansing, etc., this international convention obliges you to a favourable relationship, to accept documents that are valid. The moment we came, and you do this day and day, you do not accept documents that are obtained by a citizen, but you send them to Croatia, Bosnia, Kosovo, etc. The Home Law on General Administrative Procedure obliges you to use documentation by the authority issuing documents and any other official records that exist in the Republic of Serbia. You don't use that. What are you doing? You send a man to Croatia to take out the document, and you already have two documents in your own records and on screen your official at the MUP or in another state body has this document in his own documentation, he has everything in front of him, but he doesn't care. The law has ordered – go to Croatia, give the Croatians, the Croatian state, BiH and other countries, pay taxes, pay transportation, pay food and drink there. Here's your bill. Every year, from the exodus and genocide of the Serb people in Republika Srpska, at least 100,000 Serbs went for documents. If the average trip there is, which lasts for two or three days, with the cheapest transport, which costs 100 to 150, plus 200 euros
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55025	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. You have 22 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55026	At first, I'd have to remind the citizens a little bit, and now we're in the arrest era. A little bit of running out of the mob. That index, travel, and this one, and that one. It'll probably end up with some papers, etc. It's just that during the day it gets arrested, it's neatly published in the Dnevnik, and probably overnight, not perhaps the same day, but in a few days, people let themselves go home, so it keeps some tension, there's a lot of potential candidates for arrest, everyone who works at the Privatisation Agency, and those who left the Agency two years ago, and I don't order everything else in order. Now let's get back to the personal cards, because there's some connection between the amendments to this law on ID cards and these current things going on in our society. Let's get in line. For years, in October, November or December, we passed a law amending the Law on travel documents. Why? An imperfect system. People can't take out new passports, so the importance of the old goes on for a year, and that's how it went. We've always pointed out -- don't do it, set a serious deadline once and finish the job, don't put people in an awkward situation, especially those from abroad, when they're supposed to come here to visit the family, because if they don't, it's possible they can come with the passport without being able to come out, because the passport expired on December 31st. Of course, the smile, that kez, as the kids say, we're heading towards Europe, which we don't care about passports. So we changed seven or eight times, and for six months, and for a year. We started with ID cards, and there were problems right away. We're not going to repeat our 2006 discussion now. At that time, someone else was in power, and Mr. Dacic was very supportive of that authority, a minority partner who provided great support. But we're going in a row. The time has come to change registration plates and traffic permits. Looks like I.D. again. And it had to be with problems and here, problems, problems, problems. It's probably gonna change something again, some rulebook, etc. Let me remind you of the passport. Finally, it came out that there was also a big criminal affair at the Bureau for issuing bills and coins, etc., and then there was a problem whether he took the younger one, whether he took this one, whether he took that one, wouldn't let the MUP command them there some director of that coin, etc., so "Kurir" published in the series and contracts, compared the prices of who got it, who installed it, etc. Interesting stuff. It all started with Dusan Mihajlovic called Lutra. It was neither guilty nor obliged, the minister's man, to finish some dirty work, bought a machine from Israel that makes ID cards and all these things according to the most modern standards, etc. For years, this machine, so as not to sound empty, so that it does not fail, come to our senses – let's catch a connection with Europe, and then we will do everything according to European standards. These chipped, and uncircumcised, and with a earring, and without a earring, and like this, and like this, and so forth. Of course, it is a great tragedy when a bank issuing a credit card, or a payment card has more information about a client than the state in the official record of the MUP, where ID cards are issued, as evidence based on whom identity is determined, it is basically, and some other areas where the identity card is evidence, residence, etc. Speaking of IDs, we have some things to explain today. Who has the right to an I.D.? A citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Where are the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? All over the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What is this territory of the Republic of Serbia? That territory defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Who did this? Citizens of the Republic of Serbia in a referendum. Do all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have the identity cards of the Republic of Serbia? They don't. Why don't they? Anyone who does not have an ID card from the Republic of Serbia cannot enjoy the rights spoken of by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, the second criterion, we have citizenship, just to remind you of what Milorad Buha said, I will not add anything – what is the relationship, means the attitude towards people who need to prove our citizenship and to resolve the question of citizenship is, at the very least, inhuman in relation to some who have neither the status of a citizen nor the responsibility, since the status of a citizen is little and exceeds what is a citizen. Let's see, how's the territory? As far as territory is concerned, it's colorful. Why is it colorful? Probably the M.O.P. knows best, because they're arresting their own people, they're arresting cops. I don't know you, Meroshin, Nis, and over here, and over there. If you go with the license plate, then you can go with Ruma, and I can't go any further. Then the question arises: Who does it apply the laws, why does it apply them in such a way that it is misused and who rules in the shadows? Obviously we call the wrong people, we always call the pawns, the means. We don't call the chief rulers, they're far tucked away, no one mentions them, no one knows. We're on our way to the next area. What's the release procedure? We see that there are elements and organised crime in the MUP, as the first-place institution to fight organized crime. Excuse me, please, what kind of message is that? If a citizen goes to the police department, to the counter, he should believe or express doubt as to who he works for there. Like when you go to the Ibar Highway, so the police stop you, you're not sure if that police uniform is from fleas or if it's an authorized official? Why? Because sometimes you don't pay a fine for 200 dinars. My neighbor Aca says – Miro, give him 200 dinars, and this one says – give him at least 400 to have a drink buddy. This one says, no, I'm out, I'm retired. Goodbye. It's just proof of how laws are applied, how laws are consistently applied, how people burn. Because you have, say, a case to report something that's a crime to a police officer and you expect him to solve the basics. And he says, for 32,000 to work for you, I don't care what I do for 32,000 dinars. It's something below the net average salary per citizen in March 2011. You can swear here now, Europe loves you, adores you, because of pro-European laws, it jumps your popularity, etc. I know you're jumping everything, popularity especially. But explain one thing to me – how far? Can anyone else be naive enough to accept all that? Let's go on and see how the ID is used, because it's evidence. Are there abuses in use? There are. But in order for abuse to be achieved by using a personal card, the other side must participate in abuse. Who shows up on the other side? State institutions, by law. Is this really the EU's dream of a criminalized administration? Next, use. Who's using the I.D.? What is it used for? Is there any possibility of abuse? It exists, and it does exist. Now that the story of chipping, inciplining, you remember in that historic action of "Sabbe", when you brought in tens of thousands of people, with papers, no papers, no criminal charges, no criminal charges, no requests for an investigation, no requests for an investigation, no charges, no charges, etc. – they removed the state that paid the damages for illegal arrest and imprisonment. But everyone else is on the computer. Now that he's got his ID and he's been ID'd by a cop for something, to make a change, his computer tells him - he's got it in there. You have upgraded your criminal record, and you have even exceeded the provisions on rehabilitation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. You're doing something. A man who understands these things tells me something contrary to Article 89. The law of the police. But that's normal. That's why there's popularity. That's understood. The popularity of those who are for Europe is extremely high at all costs. ID as a travel document. Excuse me, I.D. was used as a travel document. It's not something epochal. I am not talking about using my ID as travel documents in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with an emphasis on the UN-controlled KIM. But you had a situation when a fair was organised in Dimitrovgrad, Bosilegrad, people crossed with a personal map across the border, from Bulgaria, with a personal map from Serbia, and there is nothing epochal there. I suppose it's similar in Subotica, where these fair days are organized, etc. So there's nothing epochal about it. Only if you thought you'd just invented another pothole. And for the record, the potted pot works very nicely with one hole. Well, then we have a nice relationship with Republika Srpska. You go with your ID and you don't have any problems. You enter Republika Srpska, you immediately enter the MH Federation, continue there and to Knin, there is no need to be held back. Why? It's all the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I'm praising you for. It is a beautiful territory of the Republic of Serbia, a personal map of the Republic of Serbia is valid throughout the territory of Serbia, it is good and fine. So you didn't invent anything epic today. It's been around a long time. There was a little talk about these IDs, who could get it, how to get it, so a little accent was given on KIM territory. I have to remind you that in Leposavic, yellow sheep were divided during the elections, and in Gracanica, there was just one moving here, they were opening cafes to finish the election. Now don't complain about how Americans don't want to hear it, especially when they're whining about those who went to get teeth for that prayer breakfast, so they get them there and they give them toothflakes, and they're stuck there, and that's the main thing. In Serbia, everyone's pants are shaking. Imagine the face he was in Washington, with his wife, invited to breakfast, Obama. It's about the same as when Boris Tadic was given an honorary map of members of a library in an English home here. Library member Boris Tadic, people, English libraries. Admirable in the people. Is there better evidence of friendship, of going to the EU? They can't wait for us. Now we hear it's not just KiM's problem, they want to tear up all of Serbia. Imagine. Fluid worked, headed up from below. Amazing things happen. Be careful, in 2006, the law was passed and it is known that in July 2011 the time is coming when personal cards should be removed again. It is now said in advance – we will not do this but go to 2016, to be valid until 2016. Where the hell did you think of that? So when the state administration doesn't want to do its job, it secures most of it well, the law changes, and then it's said – and that's a European standard. Please, since 25 January 2001, no regulation, law, plan, decision, decision, anything, resolution, declaration, which is not according to the highest standards of the developed EU has been adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They all come from Brussels, and Belgium still doesn't have a government. Citizens are thrilled, they live by European standards. You don't have to say this at all because of the Venice Commission, because of Europe, because of Solana, because of Shay, because of this. No, I don't. You know that. Nothing's a problem. There's just one little problem, you know. You have made a very good statement about the EU and citizens are aware that when they are in Serbia, they live by European standards, but that these European standards are more economically acceptable, for example, in Belgium. Then they say -- the white Schengen was won so that we could go to Belgium to solve our socio-economic problems. And then this humanitarian organisation called the EU says -- please imagine, they come to us looking for asylum. How many are there that don't seek asylum? What do you think? And some of the completely uninformed from Afghanistan come to Serbia and seek asylum from Serbia. Can you imagine? So there's worse than us. We're not the first ones on the top of the list. And that EU is not a human institution. They said well – you must all live by our standards. People who think that this regime does not allow them to live decently or elementary conditions for life, well expensive money for a map, go to Brussels, Munich, find themselves there, 90 days touristic, 120 days family, and the rest if they get caught. You see how strange that thing is with the EU. Have you seen – Sarkozy throws out people with a passport from an EU member country? Throws out Romanians, Bulgarians, who are fat in the EU. So they carry out discrimination within the EU, according to EU citizens. Keep an eye on where you're taking us. You're taking us to the centre of discrimination. They'd only like to have a nice life and we'd like to break it down. It can't, it's not a European standard. The Council of Europe has set standards. Everyone is guaranteed to live well. Everyone is guaranteed to live as in Paris, Brussels, London, and now you Europeans are forcing Dacic to be a discriminator here, to get people out of the bus. What's the standard for pulling people out? By what criteria does everyone have a passport? He paid for the ticket, he can't smuggle, he can go legally. That's it. That's where I've been waiting for you. The white Schengen is only designed for those who have money to go there to spend. Those who have no money to spend there are not the EU for them. It's a readmission for them, as you say. Take care, see how dangerous it is to listen to the EU, how dangerous it is, how pointless it is. It's like that contract with the Israeli spy company. You know, that recording. Well, how could that be concluded without the knowledge of the Americans? It concluded that they would have us in their hands, as we allegedly spy on what's going on on Kim. Because we're gonna wear boots, you know. So we got you into the story, so you're running around in the courts here. What do we pay for it? Don't you think the EU is a highly sophisticated criminal institution? I can't wait to send some government representatives to Brussels to take their positions. You can imagine if the younger one entered Brussels, what would be left of the European Commission? Hire your aunt, your aunt, Kiki, these, those. They're gonna snap like a rainbow, my people. Or should we transfer the famous financeman to God? In 16 days, 12m euros will have shares in a bank in Brussels. They're arresting this guy's Djordjevic. Did you see that? In two years opposition $11.5 million earned. He says he tried, worked hard. Now, that's what citizens know. So this is one smoke bomb, it's hard for people who care about DOS, in all the aggregate states. It's about the same as when Wolfie keeps Tom on "The Imprint of the Week." So effectively he defended him, they could arrest him immediately. He was effectively defending him, they could shut him down right away, and after three years, the trial could begin. It is the same as when Boza Djelic and these tell you about a good future, how they burn to protect our interests. Please, no more, it hurts so much when you're guarding our interests. There is no place for our interests, as people and as citizens, in your perception. If there's anything justifiable, you say – that's what the IMF would do to me, but not to the IMF. I'd like to ask the citizens, when the OSCE is told, to have the character of William Walker in front of them immediately. When it comes to NATO, Solana and Jamie Shay. When the U.S. says, a monument to Bill Clinton's life in Pristina. According to Boris Tadic, Srdjan Milivojevic, the chief ideologist of the DS. There's no better ideologist. He, Neca, Cole, Maca, these are DS ideologies controllers. What could DS without these resistance fins, excuse me, democracy fighter? It's something ideal. So, citizens, when you hear Boris Tadic, that's what you see, it's Srdjan Milivojevic, a picture and opportunity of European Serbia. Thank you, Mrs. Djukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55027	As usual, you weren't on the subject. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that we have very often as a topic of the agenda of this law. Kind of bad for the government, bad for the ministry when it comes to the deadlines for the application of this law and we keep delaying something. It's just amazing that the MUP can't judge how long it takes them to fully implement this law, how much their technical capacities and organizational abilities are, but we're in a situation where we keep going over and over and over again and doing some changes and additions to this law. Unfortunately, according to the SNS, and in this bill, which is not particularly large, there are quite problematic institutes, inapplicable, so I would say those who will make life more difficult for individual citizens of Serbia. So that I don't waste much time theoretically, I'm going to go to a concrete start. As far as this institute is concerned, which you've designed, and as far as underage and business incompetent persons are concerned, it all seems ideal at first sight. If another parent had agreed to issue a ID card, it would have seemed really fine, to avoid abuse, because some parents abused their rights. But, on the other hand, you have big problems among your spouses, you often have quarreled mates, you often have spite, and a large number of minors won't be able to achieve their right to a personal card, because there's a fear of one of the parents that eventually that underage person will travel out of the country, and that fear is for no reason. It seems to me that maybe a few percent of the abuse, maybe 10% or 20%, of those who are underage, thanks to this provision, will be affected and will not be able to get an ID card to make some of their wishes or plans come true. So, it seems to us that this institute has no place in this law, that perhaps it should have been sought in some criminal law, that through some other legal projects, the problem of abuse of custody of children should have been solved, and this parental right that you left in one position says that underage persons over 16 years of age will be issued without the consent of another parent unless the parent is entitled to parental rights. I don't think that provision means much, because there are very few parents who don't have the right to parental rights. On the other hand, I think we've got one collapsing. In the law itself, you prescribe that all persons who are 16 years old who do not have a ID card are subject to some criminal sanctions. The sanctions, I think, are 30 days in prison. But you don't prescribe that parents are responsible for it, unless that underage person owns the right card, too. So, quite a troubled institute that will create a lot of problems and, I think, according to the SNS, is practically inapplicable in practice. As for some technical options for a Latin letter, I would remind you that in Article 9 you already have the right of national minorities to issue ID cards and personal documents in the languages of national minorities. What are the new technical conditions, the technical possibilities we need now, if it is obvious that there is already this possibility in the previous law? It even seems to me to mention the data in English. In addition, some sublaws are prescribed whether or not there are technical options. It can only be within the law. It can be applied to all citizens of Serbia, where we will clearly know whether or not we can. The rights are the same for all citizens, and in this way some citizens can do it, and some can't. "The official messenger," according to the SNS, is a well-known institute, in that very often an invalid ID card is advertised with a great delay, which rarely takes care of it. We have one amendment and predicted that a register, a public register, will be formed within the MUP, in which you will be able to see what are the invalid identity cards, which you will be able to use at any time. I think that's one civilization progress. If it is necessary for citizens to finance it by the official messenger to some payments, it is a different story, but I think that what the "officer" refers to is completely exceeded and unnecessarily found in this law. It's one of the SNS' views. When we have our citizens working abroad, it's two years' worth of ID. Don't you think it's too small? On what grounds did you come to this restriction for two years? In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 1st If you already wanted to limit it in some way, you had to change the article. 1st and 2nd. By art. 1st and 2nd, they have the right to an ID card, like all other citizens, and that right is 10 years. It seems to me that in this explanation I haven't found a reason why it would be two years, unless it's the financial interest of the MUP, that these people are pulling out the document more often and, of course, paying off certain financial resources and filling holes in the current government's budget. Not to talk about bullying. Even so, fewer people who work abroad come to Serbia, do not feel welcome, very often feel that they are exploited at every turn and that all the rights they acquired by birth come under question. Over 65 years old, another institute. At the age of 65, you can get a permanent ID card. Why not 55? In the previous law, it was at 50 years old. Our amendment is to make it 55 years. That's why you'll have fewer lines when it comes to the issue of ID cards. Why couldn't someone get a permanent I.D. when they were 50-55? Why wouldn't that right be by automation? Why should he seek a special request, express his desire to be a permanent ID card? I don't know why you didn't define it to be something that was meant to be. The life span of our citizens, I think it's known to all of us, is moving up to about 70 years. What does this institute mean – at 65 you will get a permanent ID card? I think that border is too high. The position of the SNS is also in this regard that it takes at least 55 years to obtain it as a permanent document and that it is understood by automation that this specific requirement is not needed. A large number of citizens are not even familiar with all legal possibilities. Very often, they do not have someone to guide them and eventually help them to fulfill their rights. So one of the main reasons I think is that the great poverty of the Serbian citizens, the reason why we haven't finished this job so far, seems to me. The financial resources required to be allocated for new documents, for a new ID card, are not small for a large number of citizens. That is why they leave these jobs behind for later and therefore extends from year to year. That is why we will probably have an amendment and an addition to this law next year, and that is the basic reason why the government is not aware of what opportunities citizens are and how today citizens in Serbia live poorly. The position of SNS is also quite clear on this side, that those citizens who are socially endangered, if not all citizens, should get a personal card free of charge and get this job done once, not to hang out for years on some technical matters, about something that is a civilization need. We have one big problem and the SNS often points out that, and that's the price of the forms, the price of getting documents. There were a lot of problems with lateness, disorganization of the administration at the municipal level. We think there's very little transparency here, that we don't have public procurement, that we don't have any arguments, which is why personal documents are so expensive. We also have a problem with license plates, which are currently being issued in Serbia without any legal coverage. There are many stories about it, no guarantees that these registration plates will wait for the EU. If that was the goal, apparently large funds of citizens, which they do not have, stand out for some documents that are short-lived. If you remember, every few years we changed those license plates. We often ask the MUP to explain to us why these documents are so expensive, three to four times more expensive than market value. That way, I think, huge resources are being raised from the citizens. I have information for these license plates that it's about 50m euros in circulation. It's obviously the will of someone from the MUP. This is what is inadmissible and an extremely incorrect relationship with Serbian citizens. In the end, I would like to have as few of these laws in the future that fill some of the gaps in the budgets, whether the MUP, the judiciary or any institutions at Serbia's level, all over the back of Serbian citizens, through fees and various fees and payments, in a situation where citizens cannot afford it. I hope you'll consider some of the amendments we have proposed seriously. I think they're really in the interest of citizens and that some of the institutes, which you often suggest, are going to think a little bit deeper, not to be ad hoc, in such a hurry and that these institutes are in line with the whole of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55029	There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. Mr. Velimir Ilic did not exercise the rights of the head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55030	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been extremely bothered by the recent months that there are no MPs in this room of the Serbian Parliament. The topics coming to the agenda were not of interest to MEPs or the ruling coalition or opposition. At one point, 15 minutes ago, there were only seven MPs in the hall from the ruling coalition. Look, the gym's always empty. Today we are discussing the ID card and the topic is about the EU. As a man of this people, from Serbia, I see no connection between the EU and the ID card. It is a personal document for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I don't understand what the EU has to do with ID cards. Passport possible, but ID is a personal ID when we walk around the city, in Serbia. I don't see why the EU would be interested in our ID card. What's going on now? Now we talk, we adopt, we change laws, we waste time, we change ID cards every other year, we change driver's licenses, we change passports, we change licenses, we change licenses, we change our licenses, we change our licenses, we change our licenses, we change our licenses, we change our licenses, we change our licenses, we change our license numbers, we lose our citizenship, we change our method of extraction, we change all that, we change our tractor registrations, and so on. This is necessary when Zika and Pera cross the street to break the field must be registered, registered, paid commitments etc. And the country household has to register, there's nothing to be done in the country unless it's done. Now they've come in line and certified. For every production household, if you produce cheese, cocoa, brandy, slaughter lamb for some roaster, you must have certain certificates, which must be burned, for every restaurant, for every company, whether to cross paths, do not cross paths, etc. Do you know how much this certificate costs – 5,000 euros for the company. When you add all of this together, only these personal documents, certifications and all of this aside, Serbia, according to documents so far, has given 40 billion dinars. Serbian citizens have been robbed in this shortage, in this misery and misery, 40 billion dinars. For example, I have five children, a wife, I, two sons-in-law, for God's sake, for a month and a third, when you add this up, I need to raise the credit to take out all the papers, documents, etc. Not to talk about what needs to be taken out, how the administration is slowly pulling out money. You see, libor on the side of the bank, that's what you brought, the EU. You knock down the euro and they raise interest. There are some problems with the EU. How do you conduct negotiations, gentlemen from the ruling coalition? You're talking about European integration, Mrs Delevic is too busy, she's working on it intensively, and we're poorer every day, and these are getting richer every day. They got into our store, they got into everything, they got into our market, the financial market, they totally took it over. Here, now they're taking the store and everything and nowhere to find us a place to put our product in. What can Serbia bring to the EU? Malin, mushrooms and nothing else. What is our interest in economic strengthening? The EU can bring us closer to the economy of better, stronger, safer, Serbian strong banks. It can bring us closer to higher employment, higher profits, to be more competitive, increased exports, and that will lead us into the EU, and not us now to boast - we have changed our ID cards. They won't even notice, they don't care at all. What kind of peripheral issues have we been dealing with in this House for months? We make laws that no one asks for. We asked ourselves to change the electoral law and that in order to go, that's our government's proposal. This is not true that the EU has sought and we have created a major problem, because it has suited someone. They asked for a question of blank resignations and the number of women to be represented in parliament. That's what they're interested in. We've imposed this on ourselves. Second, we're breaking our own constitution day by day. They told us nicely from the EU - enter the procedure of changing the Constitution, we are pleased. We say, no, we're gonna break it. And we break him every day and here he talks to whoever he wants. Here, I recently heard in a statement by the minister that KFOR followed me in Kosovo, never in my life followed me to KFOR, but I was expelled by Kosovo police as a national envoy from Serbia from Kosovo's territory, escorted by police, and it took me first to Pristina from Leposavic, and then kicked me out to Merosino to go back around. They wouldn't let me go the same way when I went to our Serbian Patriarch's office. Why? What someone called and said -- they can't come in, they're not alike, they shouldn't be down there, because when a big boss comes in, nobody else can be more important or important. So, the big boss comes, there's a place to take it, next to the Patriarch, and of course everybody else is out. And that's how it ended. Therefore, you gentlemen of the ruling coalition have forgotten, many times I warn you here to rebalance the budget. You've reconstructed the government, but since you're spending money without budget rebalance, I'm just interested. What do you do with NIP funds, how did you divide the Ministry of Energy and Mining, Telecommunications, many other ministries, etc? How did you arrange it? How does the vault let the money go? How are you leading the investment? How is that financed? Budget, which has been voted here and the Budget Law is totally being broken, no one cares anymore. The money's being released. I called the Treasury and asked, he says, on a phone call from the finance minister and prime minister. He says, "Let Ziki go, and he says, "Let Ziki go so much, Mickey, and don't give Perry any money, it's not at will. So that's how you work. Now, what happens in the end, I don't know. In the end, you will come to this House, and you will ask for it all to be covered in blanks. How do you operate for months without budget rebalances with a reduced number of ministries? I'd like Mr. Cvetkovic to explain it to me, as a great financial expert. He personally made a criminal complaint to the director, in my presence and presence with Kostunica, when he served as finance minister and got two years in prison for breaking the Budget Law. Although there was a rink and a dive and the government adopted the conclusion to move, but he said – Budget law is a sacred letter. Mr. Cvetkovic, it's a sacred letter to you, too. If this one's got two years, you'll get at least 200 years how many times you've broken the Budget Law these months. So I really don't understand you. It's nice what we're playing – let's switch IDs, we need some money. Here, biometric passport, that's nice, but 2,500 dinars must be given there. Now whoever has five family members, he needs to take the whole salary and pay. Now we say, let's get a little driver's license, we have to change the plates a little bit, it'll work better. Let's do it. We do all this and talk about the EU, and we have not yet become a candidate, and we respect EU laws for God, and the EU does not respect certain laws among its members. The English say -- we don't want to drive the right side, we can't do anything, we don't like it, we don't want the euro, we don't want this. And we, we jump ahead, and they don't even hear about us. They don't put us anywhere near EU entry. Gentlemen, do you remember the 2008 election campaign? The then head of the ruling coalition's campaign said that in 2013, Serbia became an EU member. I listened to him recently, he said – 2018, but it's real in 2020. What happened in the meantime in these three years of your authority? Why are we so far away? Why? More unemployed, more problems, more corruption, more everything. What did you achieve as a result? Nothing. That's why we moved away, away from the EU. Now, we'll say -- we've done something, we've changed these personal documents, we've introduced certificates, and they say -- we don't care about your ID cards, it's your private matter, change whatever you want. Gentlemen, do you realize the state we live in? Do you believe, now that you're out of here, you walk through this street, you see a parking service takes one car, they have nothing to do with life in Serbia, you have to pay 100 euros, but if it sees the vehicle inside, buy it right away. It doesn't have a dilemma, it gets picked up, by a hundred Euros. You know what a hundred euros is, gentlemen, on a salary, on someone's pension, who gets that kind of salary? The punishments that come great, the state's obligations must be fulfilled, to pay, to fix, and they to you when they arrive. Please, no court solution can be executed in individual people who are protected. Is it possible he can't charge anything at Miskovic's? He says he can't, he can't charge. Is it possible that millions of euros are owed? Here you go. It's your new patent. It's your private debt payment. It's going to be a general mess, when there's some kind of crime, debt seekers and they start doing business. Imagine, state institutions can't do their job. Why? There's no people to pay from. That's why the big problem is that every moment that changes one thing, changes the other, changes the table, changes the passport, changes the driver's license, changes the ID card. It's all nice, it's all a waste of time, it's all a distraction of parliament, but we can't get time here, to discuss, for example, I've asked for multiple times, for the prime minister to explain to us, the finance minister, the economy minister, anyone, the Fiata project, where it leads us, where we got it, and how much money we've given, and what are the results, and when the results, how many cars are projected, and when are we going to take them out, where are we going to sell them? So, what about the Russian business about it? Nothing. That's what the president of the Russian government told us in this House that none of it had anything to do with it. Thus, a series of projects that have been made, missed, destroyed, have led Serbia to where they have led us. What about the village? We have a new minister, a government reconstruction, inflation since last year is extremely large. In the first half of the year, the minister says -- a subsidy of 14,000 dinars per hectare for registered households. Oil has accumulated 40% in the meantime, a set of 35% and protection, not to count etc. Where to survive? How and in what way? Subsidies remain as they were four years ago. How can a village stand on its feet? Serbia's president became president of the Infrastructure Council. There's a president in the government's working body. He said four highways, that the previous governments hadn't done the corridors. What happened, gentlemen? Where are the four highways, where are the corridors, what happened, how many miles has been done? Did you say that this year you're going to be working your way to Chačka and Pozega from your own resources, you're not going to hear about the concession? It's in the modern world, and we don't want it yet. You shut down the concession that was over. In the spring of 2012, it was supposed to open up to Požega highway, and you said – we have money, we do it right away. What do you say? How many miles have you done towards Chačka and Požega? You haven't done a hundred meters, how are you not ashamed? What are we going to do with you? A few of you come here, watch us, we watch you. We're criticizing you, you don't care. Put your heads down, you're looking at the bench, you've got some work to do. The ministers come here and make us look nice, they say – what are you doing here, how dare you ask something, etc. I remember when a minister comes here to scold us, he says, "You don't know anything, you're rude, you're uneducated, you're no messengers, I came here to teach you a lesson and come out a man and go." I've increased exports, production, everything's working, everything's going, bye, guys. They left us here some secretary to take care of us, to listen and to attribute what anyone said, and that's how the story ends. Therefore, it cannot be ruled that way. Every government has its own place. On 11 May, this government entered the fourth year of power. This is an election year, gentlemen. In the election year elections are inevitable, only if you don't mean to say – you know, we don't need any more choices, so you act like one. Therefore, I do not understand what will happen in Serbia by the end of the year. Here, now it's a full construction season. It's all right. There's nothing to do, people are left without a job mass, and we just don't have a chance of doing anything more serious. The people are waiting, we're all on hold. We're waiting for Phil to come, so he'll tell us something, so Zika will come, he'll come from Luxembourg and the foreign minister, and someone from Turkey, the people of the valleys, come by here any minute to Serbia, give us instructions on how to work, we rejoice, we go and wait and time passes. I don't understand. Some of them are running a campaign here, they're tearing down the state system, and the D.A.'s office is silent. They say – they make nice regions, you from Nova Varoshi, you from Prepolje, you from Priboj go to Novi Pazar, that's our idea, that's a European idea, that's Serbia's future. You have deceived these poor people in Vojvodina and told the Statute of the Duke that you live better. The Statute was adopted, is it better to live in Vojvodina, gentlemen? Up there twice. Pajtic exits, transfer of jurisdiction, adopt transfer of jurisdiction, and what do we get? Nothing. Now there's a leader from Vojvodina who's looking for the police. He needs the police, the flag, the coat of arms. When he gets here, he needs a big space to get in, everybody gets down, big leader comes in. He takes his position and declares some good news – I want the police, and you say – we will give everything, just to survive, so that the Government does not fall. Let's keep the government safe, just don't let the government fall. Mayor, you can be whatever you want, you can be an MP, whatever constitution, whatever law, who cares about it, it's important for the government to push it all the way. You're pushing so little, you're distracting the people... (President: Time. ) Thank you, Mr President, for letting me say this, but really serious little parliament and these topics seriously to put on the agenda, to discuss them a little bit, and for the ID, my God.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55031	You are in the highest leadership of parliament, the head of the parliamentary group, and it is good to share both the influence and the responsibility together. I would just like to tell you that we have already provided for the standardisation of ID cards to travel with this document to some countries in the region, in BiH, for example, Montenegro. Agreements on going to Macedonia and Croatia are ending, and I sincerely hope that soon, as they travel to EU countries, we will only travel to each other with this document. Since we have exhausted the list of elected Members, do any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used their rights under article 93 want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Željko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55032	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very end of today's debate, I would like to point out one thing that the public could see. I think the Law on ID is one of the least controversial laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the past three years, and we have had the opportunity here in parliament to have the Deputy Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Mr Ivica Dacic, in his 26 minutes of public speaking, dealt with the law for just two minutes, and 24 minutes of daily politics and assaulting political opponents. I am glad that the opposition today has shown complete dignity and has not interfered with the ground floor discussions with Mr. Minister Ivica Dacic, and I am glad that it has once again shown that the ruling coalition is in great anxiety and that it is in a ghastly descending path.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-18-0.u55033	Since no one's answering their word anymore, I'm concluding today's principled search of the bill. We'll be working on it tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you for your attention. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session attends 93 of us. However, in order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask you to insert their identification cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. I find that by applying the electronic system, there are 84 of us, which means there are working conditions. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Rule 286 of our Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Just sign in. The People's MP, Riza Halimi, has a word. Here you go.
