ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50876	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of MPs, 91 MPs are present. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are more than 87 MPs in the Hall of 97, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50877	Dear Members, I must ask the Prime Minister, or Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, because this is a very interesting matter. Namely, a few days ago, or last week, the resignation of individual ministers from the government was established. The Prime Minister, under the Government Act and Article 25(2), has an obligation to propose new ministers to the National Assembly within 15 days. As you know, that deadline expires on Tuesday. The Constitution states in Article 133 that the Prime Minister is obliged to initiate proceedings for the election of a new member of the government at the end of the term of office of government because of the resignation or resolution under the law. So this procedure must be initiated by Tuesday. What's the problem? There's a problem already with today's date, today is Thursday, March 3rd, we already know, and there's no way to prove otherwise that the Prime Minister is going into violation of the Constitution. Why in violation of the Constitution? If the Constitution determines that there is, by procedure and by law, a procedure for proposing ministers, and the law to which the Constitution provides for a period of fifteen days, it is a violation of both the law and the Constitution. How do I know that's gonna happen? Very simple: either the law and the Constitution will be broken, or the law and the Constitution and Parliament's procedures. I think it will be this second, because I don't understand one thing – if the government is being reconstructed by reducing the number of ministries, as announced, if it is going to elect new ministers, but not by the scheme that exists under the current Ministry Act, then, in order to deliver the new names of ministers to parliament, it is necessary to amend the Law on Ministrys. Does the Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic... Did you inform him, President of the National Assembly, of the legal procedure, what is the procedure under the Rules of Procedure for Law? It is necessary for the law to arrive on time, to pass a certain time before the start of the search from the moment the law reaches the National Assembly, that the National Assembly first discusses in principle, and that a certain deadline be passed to discuss in particular, because this law is subject to amendments, and only when the law is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" can the Ministers' proposal be delivered in accordance with that law. Because how can we get a proposal from new ministers, if the ministry law, which regulates which ministries are and what are the responsibilities, has not entered into force? We cannot get these proposals at the same time, because if we get the first proposal here in the Serbian Parliament before the law comes into force, it is not valid, it is not valid. In other words, on the basis of what I've said, the only way to respect the Constitution here and the law is for that proposal to be here today, the ministry law. When it's over, you have a weekend ahead of you, you have Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday, and then we can make sure we get this done. What I'm not sure, according to all the announcements I have so far, and that's a question for you, the president of the National Assembly, what are we doing tomorrow? The whole assembly is talking about tomorrow's parliament not sitting, and if that's true, will we be sitting on Saturday? Because if he's sitting on Sunday, it's already too late. Let's see what our plan is, what we do not break the Constitution and the law. I bet it's gonna be like I said and none of this is gonna change, like I just said. That's what I'm interested in, and I'm interested in having the Prime Minister answer this question, if it can be written, or at least look back at what I said today when he's here before us and he's defending his suggestions. I don't get it, and it was impossible not to ask this in a situation that exists. The prime minister goes after Kopalnik, advertises, paints himself, gets ugly from businessmen and prominent economists for the failure of the Serbian government's economic policy... (President: Time. Thank you. Instead of sitting and finishing these jobs and thinking about how to comply with the Constitution and the law, he paints there.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50878	Mr. Aligrudic, the deadline within which the prime minister is due to inform us of the new ministers' proposals is 15 days, which is exactly March 8th, Tuesday. Since it is obvious that there will be a reshuffle of the government, we will certainly get a proposal to amend the Ministry Act before that; then there will be a procedure that you did not mention, which is that some ministers will resign or we will resolve them, and only then do we choose new ministers on the proposal of the prime minister. So, we're nowhere late, all that happens next week. You obviously have a desire to help the prime minister and the government with a reminder, and I thank you for that, but we weren't too late. MP Bojan Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50879	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask on behalf of the Liberal Democratic Party a few questions to the Prime Minister, because it mainly concerns the economy and energy, since we can't deal with all the issues, or can't the citizens of Serbia on all issues to wait for the 8th March that you mentioned, practically, in the follow-up session and the debate we had here seven days ago, last Thursday, when public enterprises were and announced the gatherings of which some of them were realized in the meantime. It's simple, we need to clarify some elements. The first issue concerns a decision on electricity collection, which the prime minister announced Thursday, explaining in fact his decision to remove the act from the cabinet's session, announcing it for the next session. Then he didn't tell us that the next session would come the next day, that it would be telephoned and that what he had announced here would be practically implemented, that the gatherings would not apply to those households that spend less than 350 kilowatts a month. We also said that it is not a good rapper and that no social picture or social map on the condition of a family can be formed only on the basis of total monthly consumption. I would not like to cite many examples and drastic situations, but there are many families in Serbia with small children, in which one member of the household works, or does none; these people will definitely spend more than 350 kilowatts on the nature of things because of the needs of their household and their children. This does not mean that they are in a good social situation, a good social situation, and they should pay for electricity that will be 11 or 13.5% more expensive. There's a social protection law under discussion here today. You've been working on that law for a few years. Justifications that so far have not been a way to form a relevant social map are simply not enough and good. No new energy in the government will change that after 8 March, the fact that, let's say, Minister Milosavljevic, except for his habit of dragging a wheelchair around the supermarkets every day, advertising sugar or oil from the stock reserves, will have a new energy, so now, instead of Minister Dragin, he will wear those sacks of agricultural products that Mr Dragin has worn so far, he will not solve this problem. The second issue concerns information released yesterday by the director-general of NIS, i.e. NIS - Gazprom, that the company's profits in the last year were 16,500,000 dinars, meaning around 160,000,000 euros, slightly more than the amount announced by Minister Skundric here. What is missing at this point as information is whether and how this profit will be distributed, or whether NIS shareholders will get part of it? This is also important because of the 29% state-owned ones, it is 50m euros in potential gains in Serbia's budget. It is important for those citizens who decide these days whether to respond to the purchase offer, i.e. the takeover given by NIS, or Gazprom, whether to sell their shares. It's not the same situation when you decide if you're going to sell the action against whether you're just having a clean action or you're going to get a cut in the coming months. Serbian citizens have twenty per cent of the NIS stock at the moment, before the sale of 16 March. This is relative to this profit that has been announced, about 30m euros per citizen, a fairly serious amount, especially in relation to the amount of 4.8 euros per action that Gazprom offers. It is a question and important information, which citizens should get finally on March 16th. I hope that this question will be answered by the public sooner, because if we wait until the end of the 15-day term to answer the parliamentary question, it will be 18 March and that information will no longer mean anything to citizens, so that they can make a decision on selling or keeping shares in their portfolio. Finally, the third question concerns the announced gas collection. Director-General and MP Dusan Bajatovic announced yesterday the gathering that will take effect sometime early in the summer. Here I have to repeat another question to which we can't get an answer for months and years: how much does Serbia pay a thousand cubic metres of gas when buying it from the Russian side, at the point where that gas takes over, so on the Hungarian-Ukrainian border, if I'm not wrong? What's the gas price calculation? We don't care what the final price of gas is for customers, everyone sees it in their account, it is, among other things, the price of the monopolies of a public company. We are interested in how much the import price of gas is so that we can see what is the loss of Serbia in the job, how it is financed, and why credits are taken here at hundreds of millions of euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50880	Thank you. MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable presidents, respected citizens of Serbia, my question will practically be a continuation of the questions I asked the government last Thursday at a session dedicated to government issues every last Thursday of the month. Unfortunately, I was under the impression that Mr. Skundric, the energy minister, wanted to answer me, but according to the Rules of Procedure, he had no right. I asked the citizens of the Kings to get rid of the increase in electricity prices for 2011. This way I ask directly the Minister of Energy if he will respect what I asked last week, when it comes to the citizens of the Kings, I repeat, that in 2011, they are not covered by an increase in electricity prices. There are categories of people that will be subsidized; practically, this is what I am looking for for for all the citizens of the Kings, both for those who have consumption in the economy, which has fallen into the King and for the rest of the kings, given that there is no household in the Kingdom, which the commissions have these days found, which has no damage to the earthquakes. I also have to say that electricity collection is at all a completely excessive thing at this point for the citizens of Serbia, because the 15% increase is extremely high. I just want to point out that in this country, in the last four or five years, no one has had an increase in personal income of 15%, and on one item, we are so arbitraryly increasing the price of 15%, as if it were nothing, as if it were an increase of 0.5%. I would also like to point out that for any increase in pensions or salaries, this country consults the International Monetary Fund four or five times, whether this increase, then gives one piece in April, in October, and one part by the end of the year... Does anyone in the ruling furniture even ask the IMF if Serbian citizens can be burdened with such an increase, only when it comes to electricity, 15.5%? Is it normal, we saw it on one show, Mr. Skundric says we're largely exporting it, that something we have up 15.5%? That's really pointless. It is ultimately irresponsible to the citizens of Serbia. And those who receive personal incomes have no increase for years, and there are many who do not receive anything at all. If now, directly or indirectly, as you wish, we increase the price of some people who are in production, who pay a million or two dinars of electricity, are those who raise the price aware that in these companies people will have to fire two or three people just because of that increase? Then every day in Serbia, you'll have more and more of those who don't work. The main floscula, the main pre-election story of this ruling set, was – new jobs, and we do everything the opposite, to make as many social categories as possible. Once again, I ask the Government and the Minister to reconsider their decision, because we cannot say here (when I asked this question I did not arrive because of the time to say it) – you know, we managed not to do it on March 1st, but on April 1st, because it is the warm season. Gentlemen, the new warm season will come soon, and the citizens of Serbia will have no salary increases until October. If they don't pay now, they'll start paying huge figures in October, November and December. People in Serbia just can't take it anymore, people will fall into debt slavery, and all of us here... Of course, you who are in the ruling coalition bear great responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50882	National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50883	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I assume other heads of Parliament have also received a letter from the OSCE representatives to come to the round table for the presentation of the working version of the law on the financing of political activities. You have here that this round table will be attended by the OSCE, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia and the USAID. The question is, how is it even possible that something like this is happening in our country? First of all, I suppose everyone knows that the OSCE is an organization that was founded in 1975 in Helsinki as an organization that should care for security in Europe. Among other things, there are guidelines and ways of operating the OSCE. The Declaration on the principles governing relations between Member States at the point of Sovereign Equality, respect for the rights of property sovereignty, says: "In particular, every country's right to international equality, territorial integrity, freedom and political independence." You have a second part – Invulnerability of borders: "Member States mutually confirm that all their borders, as well as the borders of all countries in Europe, are non-injurious, so they will now, and in the future, refrain from harming those borders." The territorial integrity of countries says: "Member States will respect the territorial integrity of each Member State". I ask the question: what was the relationship of the OSCE towards the Socialist Federative Republic, what is the relationship of the OSCE to Serbia, what is the relationship to Kosovo and Metohija? Is he sticking to these facts regarding the founding act? No, it is clear to all of us that the OSCE is just an instrument for achieving the objectives of America and the European Union, and that it has not only done anything to protect these principles on which it was founded, but has done everything to help break the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and bomb itself. Perhaps this round table will be chaired by William Walker. You remember William Walker, he was head of the OSCE mission in Kosovo and Metohija, the one who designed the Račka report to bomb Serbia. It's an OSCE organization. They should pass laws on the basis of which the state of Serbia should function! The second organization is USAID. From their site, it says - the US International Development Organisation is an independent organisation of the federal government, headed by the president. USAID is in charge of providing economic and humanitarian assistance worldwide and is receiving total foreign policy guidance from the secretary of state. The secretary is Hillary Clinton. You know what her position is about Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. It says here: economic and humanitarian activity. What does that have to do with legislative activity? Interestingly, when you look at what the USAID does to you, not to read everything to you, it says here: “... to work with the Serbian Parliament. “ Watch out: “from the congregation of Serbia. ” And the one on Santa's speaks better Serbian than they do. He says, "It helps members of the Assembly and staff establish their own budget and long-term system planning, so that parliament can react better to Serbia's needs with citizens. It helps the Operation Assembly become more transparent, providing advice to certain laws before the Assembly." Look at this, my people, and they're gonna propose laws! Aman, are these normal from the Department of Justice? What does this look like? Has the OSCE come forward on any elections since 2001, and they're all illegal? Is there a unique polling list? It doesn't exist. Why didn't they say one word? They want to talk about funding political parties. What did they say about the facts presented by Goran Knezevic, that only one man gave the Democratic Party 250,000 euros during the election campaigns? They know about it, they know about the packages you give to citizens across Serbia, they also know about bribery in the elections. And they're supposed to write us laws?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50884	Time. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives, answer for word, we continue to work. In accordance with Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend Ljiljana Lučić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Suzanne Paunović, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy and Nevena Rajkovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE SOCIAL PROTECTION LAW (principles) You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the basic procedure, have a total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups of five hours, and is distributed in the following way: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia has one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds, the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds, the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds, the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes, the SPS - JS - 18 minutes, the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the Group of Minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that, according to this item of the agenda, the parliamentary groups will represent the following MPs: MP Nikola Krpić, MP Elvira Kovač Group of Minorities, MP Milisav Petronijevic Parliamentary Group SPS - JS, MP Milica Vojić Marković Parliament Group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica, MP Gordana Rajkov Parliament group G 17 Plus, MP Gordana Pavnović Milosavljevic Messenger Group SRS and MP Vesna Pesic MP Group LDP. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does Proposer Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to say a few words before I go to the explanations of certain provisions of this law and about the reasons for the adoption of the new law and the social protection system that has worked so far, given that we are today applying the Social Protection Act that was passed since 1991, that this law has suffered eleven amendments and that, despite all these amendments, this law has become, unfortunately, a brake in further reforms in this area. Namely, he does not recognise a number of services that have developed in Serbia in the meantime. This old law carries all the characteristics of solving social problems in socialist countries, does not provide sufficient protection for the poorest and relys on social protection institutions as the only organised form in the social protection system. Also, the system of regulatory mechanisms in the current law has become obsolete and relies on a small number of instruments, which do not have the capacity to preserve and improve social protection in Serbia. As a consequence of such legal solutions, we have found a pre-named system of housing institutions, first of all, children and persons with disabilities. It is illustrating in this respect an example of the institution for housing children and adults with developmental disorders, which are mainly founded in smaller places, even in villages, far from communication and larger cities, such as: Kulina, Stara Lec, Stamnica, Stara Moravica, etc. This practice, which made these users almost invisible to the general public, rested on the then reviled attitude that these faces should be hidden from the eyes of the public, whenever it comes to family, and unfortunately to the state. Such a 50-year tradition was created by excessively large institutions, with several hundred and up to a thousand users, where children with adults, persons with disabilities and psychiatric patients were placed together. This situation has imposed a completely new shift in the social protection system and a focus on the development of services and services that provide a solution to social problems in the natural environment. After the change in 2000, the first steps of social protection reform in Serbia began, first through project activities supported by additional budgetary but largely donor resources, in order to get experience translated into the Social Protection Development Strategy, which was adopted in 2005. This document was, in fact, a guideline for further reforming the social protection system and checking reform directions. In parallel with these activities in social protection reform, many civil society organisations have also launched initiatives and worked to create new services in the social protection system, especially in the field of inclusion and protection of disabled persons, services for older citizens, prevention of family violence, etc. The approach we had – in practice, to gain experience and to check all possible directions for the development of the social protection system before turning them into legal solutions – has proved to be correct. Many countries in the environment have gone into reform by making the first new social protection laws. However, this has created a large number of difficulties in functioning the system, as the laws contained solutions for which no appropriate preconditions were created. In this respect, examples of Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, which first passed the laws, should be cited so that these laws should be changed because some solutions, above all on decentralisation, have proved in practice quite problematic. Given these experiences, therefore both positive and negative, both our countries and the countries in the environment, the social protection law that is today before you represents the finalisation of a phase of reform of the social protection system in Serbia. This law is based on a large number of practice-tested solutions and we believe that conditions are created today and funds are provided for more complete, better and more adequate social protection. It should also take into account the time when this law is passed, therefore, under the conditions of a major economic crisis that has hit Serbia, which has had terrible, both economic and social consequences. After a significant drop in the poverty rate by 2008, when it is more than halved compared to 2000, the impact of the global economic crisis begins at the end of 2008, and in 2009 and 2010, the poverty rate rises. In the last two years, the number of the absolutely poor has increased to about 130,000. According to the World Bank, Serbia belongs to countries with a high poverty rate, along with BiH, Bulgaria, Macedonia and Montenegro, and is in a slightly more favourable position than Romania and Albania, which have a particularly high poverty rate. The text of the law that is before you today is the result of all the experiences gained, checks and is part of the reform of the social protection system in Serbia which was launched in 2001, but also of the attempt to find the best solutions to protect the most vulnerable citizens in Serbia and to draw closer to the countries of the European Union for solutions to protect the poorest and particularly endangered people. The principles on which the new law rests are in line with internationally accepted standards, which relate to respect for the best interests of users, its active role in defining and selecting services, the development of services at local level and the resolution of citizens' problems in the least restrictive environment and without separation from the environment in which they live. I will mention a dozen new legal solutions that are at the same time the core of reforms in this area. First of all, it is about increasing the number of users of all social protection services, especially the number of beneficiaries of money giving; then, the higher amounts of money for the poorest; the activation of users of financial assistance, in other words, to help these people get out of the state of social needs and not to live with social assistance, but to find work; then, the decentralisation of services and social security providers; dedicated transfers to the development of services at local level; standardisation of social protection services across the territory of the Republic of Serbia; licensing of all service providers; accreditation of all work programmes with users and training of employees and the introduction of the social chamber as a regulatory mechanism; then, there is a partnership and work of the public, private and non-governmental sector, which is one complete newspaper, and providing services to users in their natural environment. As we have said, the new legal solution allows for an increase in the number of users, a greater coverage of the poorer, greater financial contributions for existing users. Monetary social assistance, as a cash compensation intended to protect the poorest layers of the population, is, in essence, also intended to be the same as the fees that were called in previous legal solutions – the material security of the family. Current estimates suggest that the number of users will be increased between 50% and 60%, i.e. by at least 80,000 new users, and that due to the increased amounts and higher number of beneficiaries of the monetary assistance budget will be increased by around 70-80%. These changes will primarily reflect multiple households, households where all members are unable to work and single - parent families, or single parents. According to the solutions so far, the amount of total social assistance has increased very little with an increase in the number of household members. For example, the four-member household received assistance that was only 7% or 730 dinars greater than the three-member household. In addition, the amount and aid did not differ depending on the demographic structure of the household and there was no difference between children and adult household members per consumption. The new legal solution comes from defining the basis for establishing financial social assistance, which is also equal to the current level of minimum social security for the individual. For each additional adult member of the household, this base is increased by 50% and for children up to 30% of the base. In addition, financial social assistance is increased by 20% for individuals, i.e. households where all members are unable to work, as well as single parents. I'll give you only two examples, for illustration. The aid for individuals, according to the latest data, for February of this year amounted to 6,043 dinars, and now, according to the new law, the user, working incapacitated, instead of the current 6,043 dinars, will receive 7,251 dinars; a single parent with two children will have 10,574 dinars under the current law, and will have 12,170 dinars under the new law. It should also be borne in mind that families with children are also given a children's allowance for children of school age, which means that financial welfare for a family with two children is equal to a minimum wage in Serbia, which currently stands at 17,000 dinars. Surely the largest number of complaints will refer to these amounts, I believe that most MPs will agree that these are relatively small amounts, but given our economic and financial situation, that is, at this point, a reflection of real opportunities. Also, if we compare with some countries in the region, you will see that your amounts are not so small. In Bulgaria, for example, it ranges from 39 euros for single parents to 120 euros for a married couple with two children; these range from 63 euros for an individual to 120 euros for a five-member and a multi-member household. The new legal solutions also expanded the notion of a person unable to work, including women over 60 years old and men over 65 years old, young people at the tertiary level of education, people who care about a member with severe and severe disabilities and pregnant women. For households where all are incompetent to work, a more favourable asset censorship is provided, and the right can be realised by those who own up to one hectare of the country without mortgageing the country. They can also be able to exercise their right to financial welfare and if they have over half a hectare of the country if they give consent to enter the mortgage. The current law limited the amounts to five members and a multi-member household, and the new law shifts the border to a six-member household. However, the same amount of financial assistance remains for the six-member household and household with more than six members, but the financial opportunities are such that only this shift was possible. In a conceptual sense, a significant newspaper is to highlight the proactive role of users and to open up opportunities for their activation. After adequate preparation of the system and in the environment in which it is realistic, the law provides for the possibility for social work centres to enter into contracts, individual action plans with users on their activation. The user is legally required to accept work, public works and other jobs, and the conditions will be developed in the sublegal act. Specific protocols with the National Employment Service are also foreseen to increase employment opportunities for persons with disabilities. I must point out that we have been thinking about introducing the possibility of social entrepreneurship into the law, but after we have seen the experience of the European Union countries, that only Spain has a special law that regulates social entrepreneurship, we have left the new law on cooperatives to regulate the possibility of introducing and social entrepreneurship, which will be compatible with some of the solutions set out in this law. Now let me say a few words and new services in the social security system. First of all, we put the accent on the development of a system of services in the community, and accommodation in institutions, or homes, which has been a practice so far, is only one of the services that it reaches if support cannot be provided in some form that is less restrictive, such as parenting, when it comes to children without parental ageing, or living room, housing with support, help in the house or service of personal assistants, when it comes to persons with disabilities. The solutions offered also support family affirmation, i.e. the family environment, which is the best framework for the protection of sensitive groups, and to encourage the development of parenting, daily services, home care and assistance services and other social protection services. The law added new services that have been underrecognized in social protection practice so far, such as services for victims of domestic violence, abuse, neglect, victims of human trafficking, persons facing difficulties due to impaired family relations, addiction to alcohol, drugs or other forms of socially unacceptable behaviour. Many of the numbered services have been developed for a long time with the support of local self-government, funds from the republican budget or donor funds. The development of these services has contributed significantly to the deinstitutionalisation process in Serbia. This process has also contributed to the development of parenting, which has been intensively done in previous years. Thanks to this process, the number of children without parental ageing in institutions has been reduced from about two thousand to 700; at the same time, the number of foster children has increased from 1,800 to 5.159 children, as currently in foster families. However, the reduction in the number of users in institutions, especially children with developmental disturbances, despite all the efforts we make, is much slower because there are no support services in the local community. The law, precisely because of the development of services at local level, supports the process of decentralisation as one of the basic strategic rights of development of the social protection system, but retaining at the republican level services that are of particular importance, such as monetary social assistance, institutions for accommodation of persons with disabilities, children with disabilities in development and children with behavioural disorders. Legal solutions are such as to provide conditions and predict mechanisms for taking responsibility for local self-government to meet the needs of citizens in the social protection system, primarily through the development of services that support life in the community. The two most present services are: living room (developed in 65 municipalities and towns in Serbia) and house assistance (developed in 98 municipalities and cities in the country). However, the problem of the financial sustainability of these and other services remains, so the law provides for the possibility to finance the development of these services in less developed municipalities from the republican budget through dedicated transfers. A special swing in the development of these services should also contribute to the possibility that, under equal conditions, services can be provided by public institutions, NGOs and the private sector. In the functioning of social protection, a particular problem is the provision of services to users with multiple problems, especially those in the domain of health and social protection. At this point, in accommodation facilities aged nine thousand users, the largest number is either entirely or to the greatest extent dependent on medical care, about 80%. In the social protection system, there are about two thousand persons with various types of mental illness and about three thousand users with developmental disorders. For these people, it is crucial to establish socio-medical institutions, as they will be able to improve the quality of healthcare, a number of doctors, medical staff and others. All social protection services, in accordance with the provisions of the law, will be standardised. Standardisation of services will be carried out at the sub-legislative level and will contribute to providing each service with the same quality and in a way that guarantees to the greatest extent the satisfaction of the needs of users, regardless of which part of Serbia is provided, as well as whether it is provided by a public institution, an NGO or a private entrepreneur. We mentioned dedicated transfers to local self-government units. The dedicated transfers, as you have heard, are provided for those social protection services which are within the jurisdiction of local self-government. The main point of the dedicated transfers is to ensure that in different parts of the country a uniform development of the social protection system is possible, in line with the local needs of the users. In 122 municipalities in Serbia, strategic plans for the development of social protection in which municipalities recognized the services their citizens needed. When applying for the municipality's funds, they call for a strategic plan and guarantee that the services will be sustainable even after the project is completed. The municipalities co-financed the establishment of services of between 5 per cent and 10 per cent. These experiences have been translated into legal standards on dedicated transfers. There are three groups of dedicated transfers. The first type of dedicated transfers is intended for municipalities and cities below the republican average in accordance with the regulations governing the classification of units of local self-government according to the degree of development. Over 75% of local self-government will be able to compete for dedicated transfers. The second type of dedicated transfers is intended for local self-government where home accommodation facilities are located in a transformation. These local self-governments face a special challenge in taking over the financing of non-institutional services that are being developed in home accommodation facilities that reduce their accommodation capacity. The dedicated transfers should enable the coverage of the transitional costs that these processes inevitably impose. The third type of dedicated transfers is intended for the development of innovative services in the social protection system. These resources would also be designed to develop services of particular interest at national level, which do not necessarily need to be identified at local level. Essentially, this type of dedicated transfer, especially when it comes to institutionalisation, is benefiting from the good experience of the Social Innovation Fund, which has contributed significantly to reforms in this area. Sublaws determine the level of the dedicated transfer, the criteria for its distribution by individual units of local self-government, the criteria for participation of local self-government and the dynamics of the transfer of funds. The dedicated transfers will be awarded through a competition for services that are in line with local social protection development strategies, with the approval of multiannual financing and mandatory financial participation of local self-government. The new law pays special attention to the quality of professional work and quality control of services provided in the system. It also provides for the establishment of a social chamber for all those performing social security tasks, whether in the public, civil or private sectors. The social chamber will issue, renew and confiscate social security workers and maintain a register of members. Licenses would be issued for six years. The chamber will also have its professional code. I would especially like to stress that as of 2008, around 8,000 social protection experts have received certificates on completed training programmes and that 103 training programmes have been accredited so far. Accredited training programmes are designed to raise knowledge and skills for working with users; the already started training process will allow the licensing of professional workers, in accordance with this law, to be carried out in a short period of time. Under this law, in addition to professional licensing workers are subject to organisations providing services in the community, family accommodation and adoption services, as well as home accommodation. The licensing process will verify whether the criteria and standards for providing services in the field of social protection are met and therefore also for obtaining a licence. The license is issued for six years. It is particularly important that in the licensing process it will pay attention to how to work with users, sufficient number of licensed staff, quality and conditions in which the service is provided and similar. I would also like to stress that after the law enters into force, the licensing process will be mandatory for all new and present service providers, therefore, state homes, private homes, living rooms and the like. The law provides for the functioning of the Republic and provincial Social Protection Institute, the Social Protection Institute, according to the definition of this law, should be the leading institution for the improvement and operation of the social protection system. The institutions should be a bond between science and practice, to make proposals for changes in the system through constant monitoring of knowledge in the field of social protection. The supervision of the implementation of this law shall be carried out by the competent Ministry of Social Protection Affairs. The law sets out issues of election and resolution of the Director of the Centre for Social Work as the most important institutions of social protection, as well as issues related to the administrative, supervisory board of the Centre for Social Labour and other service providers. As previously said, one of the papers in the law represents a partnership between the public, civil and private sectors. It should be noted that so far we have had good examples of the private sector and NGOs as service providers, but also a lot of problems, especially when it comes to the establishment of private homes for the accommodation of older citizens. Namely, many private individuals have established housing homes as pensions because of inaccurate legal solutions, which functioned without the supervision and control of any competent authority. As a result, 46 work bans were issued during 2010 until February of this year and homes that worked without permission were closed. However, in Serbia today, more than 67 private homes are operating with the Ministry's work permit, with more than 1100 accommodation seats, 28 of which were granted a license in 2010. There are 52 private homes in Belgrade, in Vojvodina eight and in the interior of Serbia seven. In addition to the competition of these three sectors, which will result in better quality of services, this type of partnership will allow for a longer duration of employment for a number of unemployed persons, will release part of the budget that would otherwise be spent on building homes, which will create conditions for assistance in other areas of social protection. By passing this law, by drawing up accompanying sublegal acts, which will be completed by June of this year, the social protection system in Serbia will be established in accordance with standards of international documents. A series of objectives defined by the Social Protection Development Strategy will be realized, a normative and legal basis will be created for further development of the social protection system, the quality of social protection services in Serbia will be improved, and will also have a favourable impact on increasing social inclusion. The 2011 budget provided 2.7 billion dinars for funding the rights under the law. Finally, I would just like to say that the public debate on the drafting of the law lasted from December 2009 to June 2010, that it included over two thousand participants, so, the expert public, the Association of Centres for Social Work, the Association of Professional Workers in Social Protection, representative unions of employees in the social protection system, NGOs, representatives of higher education institutions. Perhaps someone will comment that the law provides for a number of sublegal acts, which is true, however, we have decided on this step precisely because of practices with the old law, where individual legal solutions have run over or denied time; then these legal solutions are more difficult to deny than sublegal acts. That is precisely why we have defined the frameworks, standards and what is necessary to define when it comes to social protection, and we have transposed everything else into a sublegal act, which, as I pointed out, is far easier to change and adapt to the real social circumstances and needs of the users above all. I would also like to point out that much support in the draft law has been given by UNDP, DFID, UNICEF, IMF, World Bank, noting that the solutions set out in this bill are in line with all applicable international standards in this area. We will be prepared to and during the debate in principle and especially during the debate on amendments to accept everything that will improve the text and quality of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50886	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Meho Omerovic, Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50887	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as the minister said in the opening statement, it is good that after 1991 we finally got one system law that regulates this very sensitive area. In principle, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia supported the proposal for a social protection law, as we assessed that the proposed law could improve the existing social protection system. Union organisations and other associations have submitted their written proposals, i.e. suggestions, objections to this proposal, which we will bear in mind when we discuss amendments as a Committee, or when we have a discussion in particular. The Social Protection Act prescribes the right to financial assistance and other forms of social support for children, young people, adults and the oldest part of our population, including family. It is therefore very important that in the social protection system, above all, stable resources are provided, and that, you will agree, can only be a healthy, growing economy, because the greater the circle of people who work, the safer the source of funding, and the reduction of the number of people who need social assistance. Unfortunately, we also heard from the minister in the opening statement that the number in Serbia has recently increased by about 50-60%, i.e. about 80,000 users. In Article 80. The bill says: “Each one is responsible for meeting the needs of his own life and the needs of his family. “ An individual who is capable of work should be actively involved in overcoming an adverse situation. This provision in the bill aims to highlight the responsibility of each citizen of Serbia, each individual and the need for his personal active employment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it won't be very much that only an individual, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is responsible. Where's the state? Does the state have any obligations and responsibilities towards its own citizens and their families? Is the existing economic environment enough to be stimulating enough for every working man to provide his existence and the existence of his family? Don't lie to me, it's not. The draft strategy, prepared by the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic with its team, titled "The concept of the development of the Republic of Serbia by 2020", also shows problems relating to low levels of education, outdated technology, small investment in science, the stalemate of innovative work, demographic ageing, insufficient investment in infrastructure, the intensity of agriculture, etc. In addition to the analysis of the situation, the said strategy of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic also determines the course of our further activities. I am convinced that the development strategy must also be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which determines and implements politics. The government has brought, we will agree, a very good individual strategy, it seems to me over 30, but what we lack as a society is one general development strategy, which will link all of these individual strategies that we have brought over the past decade, and perhaps a little bit more, and that will be the starting point for concrete and efficient, but also rapid measures for the economic recovery of our society. When it comes to measures for economic development and social security must be established, we heard, and the co-operation of the state and economic sector; I would say not only on the Kopalnik, but also on the offer of successful businessmen, along with certain tax reliefs that our country would give them, which could also raise large systems on its feet, as our ordinary man says, and which would remain of some material value. Such dialogue between businessmen, governments and trade unions could also be a reason not only for union representatives, prime minister and resolution minister to come to an agreement, but also for visiting production halls across municipalities across the Republic of Serbia. The owners of the largest companies believe the time has come for a new social agreement, as most of the fallen companies have no management capable of pulling and pulling those companies forward. In this way, active employment measures established by the National Employment and Management Service can be linked. There are some other interesting proposals by economists, for example, to establish, in addition to foreign lending, some national development bank that will be focused on offering long-term, capital sources that will focus on large projects. (The Chairman, Gordana Komic: Time. I'm finishing up very quickly. In any case, businessmen expect the government to make room for growth and to prevent further downturning of the economy. The package of measures brought by the government in mid-January is also good news for the economy. To get back to social protection. The proposal for a new law contains several concrete measures. (President: People's Parliament, the time at your disposal has been used. I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure later. Do you mind? (President: He can't. ) I will report within the time period foreseen for the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50888	Do any of the board presidents want a word, MP Lasslo Varga or MP Vlatko Ratkovic? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50889	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the next few minutes as a member of the Committee on Labour, Social and Combat Affairs and as someone who until a few years ago worked in the then Regional Secretariat for Health and Social Policy, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities and SVM, I would like to express myself, or agree with the Minister in some things what is good, but I will also make some objections about the proposal for a social protection law. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to emphasise that the proposal for a social protection law is indeed one of the few in which the wide diapazon of all relevant actors was involved. Thus, his work took a long time, perhaps longer than we expected. We expected him here before the MPs before. We were expecting an argument earlier, maybe in the second half of last year, but what's there is important that he arrived. It is good that the result of this long public debate and the work of the working group is a good law. Unfortunately, I can't say it's great, but it's very good and it's more than necessary today when we're all aware that unemployment in our country is very high and that the number of poor is extremely high. The other day on the Committee, we discussed whether a statistical number of poor people living at a level or below a existential minimum might have already reached a two-digit number. It is good that the suggestions formulated by the competent regional secretariat have largely entered this bill, and this certainly SVM supports, however, remains, as always, a misunderstanding about the financing of these powers of the AP Vojvodina. Which makes this bill better than the old one, which the paper brings us, we've mostly heard from Mr. Secretary. I thank you for a very constructive introduction to this debate, because it is rare for one minister to present the law so closely to all of us. It used to be that we only see the explanation, but some MPs are interested, so they carry out their duties. The most significant newspaper that we, as a parliamentary minority club, support is certainly that this law covers a greater number of users and that indeed those most vulnerable, the poorest get greater rights and that, which we will all agree on, single parents and people who are unable to work get a greater amount of financial social assistance. The main goal of the adoption of this law, as the co-workers of the Committee's Ministry pointed out, is to help the poorest, it's popularly called so-called. marginalised or sensitive groups, where there is the greatest danger of social exclusion. I think this proposal covers and serves that purpose. As I mentioned, the amount for single parents and for persons unable to work increases by 20%, which we certainly support. And what we talked about, it's interesting that the definition of people who are incapable of working is expanding. What's interesting to me as a young person is that students are involved, young to 26 years old. I find it interesting that there are pregnant women involved, etc. We support the extension of that number; we now go not only to the five-member family but to the six-member family. I think we'll agree on that. What the Minister did not stress in the initial presentation and what I would also like to welcome on behalf of our parliamentary group is the following – since monetary social assistance belongs to an individual or family, I believe it is extremely important that income and property of the perpetrators of domestic violence do not affect the right of victims of domestic violence to exercise their right to monetary social assistance. It is very interesting that for the first time this bill recognizes victims of domestic violence, neglect, human trafficking, which is very little to talk about in our country. All in all, the application of this law should ensure that the quality of life of marginalised groups is improved and, which is very significant, to enable them to live productive lives. Therefore, these proposed new social services, i.e. a network of services in the community, are good. It is evident that the whole bill is seeking to affirm the family as the best framework for protection. Therefore, it proposes foster care, adoption, which was discussed by the minister, daycare services, home care and assistance. However, we are all aware of the fact that there is a concern that in practice some people will abuse this, as is happening today. I don't want to talk bad about these people, but some people think foster care is a business and they take kids to get the money. After them... Not to say they act like slavery. Interesting news in this proposal is also an activation, according to which the Centre for Social Labour and the Organisation responsible for Employment Jobs is obliged to cooperate with each other in implementing the social inclusion measures of money and social assistance users. According to this proposal, the unemployed customer of monetary and social assistance has the right to intervene in employment, the right to training, participation in public works and other rights. I sincerely hope that this will come to life in practice and that it will partially help to reduce this enormous unemployment. The licensing system is also a newspaper that is important in social protection in the Republic of Serbia. It is clear that it simply stems from the need to improve the quality of social protection and, most importantly, the control of the provision of social protection services. However, it is problematic that the basic objective of adopting this law is actually decentralisation, it is stressed, and some very significant decisions, for example, the very decision to issue a licence, will be made exclusively centralised. It is problematic that we do not see any closer to the conditions and standards for providing and achieving social protection services, as well as closer to the conditions for the use of family accommodation services, or for assessing the similarity of the person to provide family accommodation services. We do not see nor standards for providing support, nor nearer conditions for the use of home accommodation services, other types of home accommodation, etc. All this will be prescribed later, the resolution minister will make a decision, that's what you said in your statement. This is one of the biggest concerns of these relevant actors involved in the drafting of this law, why all of this is left to be resolved later by some sublaw. As mentioned in the introduction, I would now move to the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. As for the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, the AP Vojvodina had in the past the right to establish certain institutions that it had funded, but there were also institutions whose founder is the AP Vojvodina a Fundier of the Republic. Nothing significant has changed here. Things are exactly the same, and that's how it's gonna be now. In reality, in the field it seems that the AP Vojvodina is the founder of a particular institution and then there is not enough funding for these institutions, and even sometimes they are questioned by their normal functioning due to lack of financial resources. In Article 53. The Law establishing the competence of the AP Vojvodina (i.e. a member who regulates issues relating to social protection) in paragraph 1 of point 1) states: “Ap Vojvodina, through its authorities, regulates, in accordance with the possibilities, other rights in the field of social protection, greater rights than the rights laid down by law, more favourable conditions for their achievement, as well as other forms of social protection, if it has previously provided funds in its budget. “ I would stress the key words, “in line with the possibilities, ” and “if she had previously provided funds in her budget for it, ” and I will return to this. This new draft social protection law is in line with this Law laying down the competence of the AP Vojvodina that I have mentioned. Under this proposal for the social protection law that we are discussing, the Autonomous Region budget funds social protection programmes of the Autonomous province, a programme of work of the Regional Institute for Social Protection as an indirect budgetary user. I would just like to mention, for example, that this year's budget is planned for the Regional Institute of Social Protection about 17.2 million dinars, of which the salaries of employees in that office will be spent around thirteen million, so you can see how much money there actually has for these purposes. The AP Vojvodina budget also finance programmes for the work of the family accommodation centres, for adoption, which is a completely new moment. As we know, this is yet to be predicted. These centers haven't even been established yet, but they'll be in the future. The question, however, is where and how it will be financed, as well as the work programmes of other institutions whose founder is an autonomous province, except home accommodation institutions. The bill further stresses that innovation services, i.e. social protection services, will be financed from here from a special importance for the Autonomous Region. The question is, where will the money be financed from? How can Vojvodina honor all these obligations? That's what they ask themselves, believe me, at the Regional Finance Secretariat. In Article 211. The proposal for a social protection law even states that funds to build, maintain and equip social protection institutions financed from the Autonomous Region budget, i.e. from the budget of local self-government units, are provided precisely in the AP Vojvodina budget or the budget of the unit of local self-government. The question is, what money? Allow me to ask a few more questions, perhaps not directly addressed to this minister, but to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, concerning the financing of the AP Vojvodina. The Budgetary System Act says there are different sources of funding for the mandate of the AP Vojvodina. One of the sources of funding under this law, among other things, and other taxes or part of the tax under special law, but not today, unfortunately, we don't have this special law. The question is – when will the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina finally be passed? Why don't we have it? When will he finally meet us and when will we adopt him? Unfortunately, no public property law was passed. Serbia is still the only country where neither local self-government nor autonomous provinces have their own property. In view of all of this, it is very difficult for the province to fulfil all obligations, to function and to really assume these powers, to have content. It's very difficult, when the only sources of its operation are republican sources, which it has or does not have. I'll be back on our agenda. The SVM MPs and the minority parliamentary club will support the Social Protection Bill in the voting day, as we believe it is very good and necessary, as I have pointed out. Certainly, we propose that in the near future a law on public property, the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, and that we finally break the practice that Vojvodina is dependent on those couples that it receives or does not receive from the Republic. Since time still allows, I would like to point out that SVM MPs have also submitted an amendment to this bill. Mr. Minister, at the beginning of your presentation, you touched that topic. We have submitted an amendment to Article 82, which concerns general conditions for exercising the right to financial welfare. They're these troublemakers. And on the board, we talked about this subject. I would like to stress, for the sake of the public, that according to this proposal, the law in the procedure today, which we are discussing, is proposed that the right to monetary and social assistance can be obtained by an individual, or by a family who has a land of up to 0,5 hectares, or by an individual who is incompetent to work, or by a family whose members are unable to work, and who have a land of up to one hectare. We find this area extremely small and insufficient to maintain a family. We find this proposal very strict and unfavourable for rural areas. Our proposal was to increase 0.5 to 1.5 hectares, and that's not much, but at least something. Now that you've seen and, positively, as far as families are concerned, where everyone is unemployed or an individual who's incompetent to work, you've already increased from 0.5 to one, here we suggest an increase from one to two acres. We hope you will consider our amendments. Once again, the law is very good, it is not great, and we will vote for it because it is necessary. We've been waiting 20 years for this law. To point out that we are waiting for a solution to the right to finance the Vojvodina, so that it can indeed assume jurisdiction regarding social protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50890	Seventeen minutes and ten seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50891	I'd like to join some praises of this law. First, it's already been said here that this law has been pending for a very long time. He cramps, perhaps not twenty, as said, but ten certainly, so it is good that he was present in the congregation. I would point out that I see one sensitivity of this law in relation to the current situation, as well as the ten-year transition in Serbia, which has indeed multiplied social problems. I'd say that the transition is largely stuck, that we don't even know if we're in transition anymore or if we're stuck in some mud, so we don't know how to get out of it. This, of course, is also reflected in this area that we are talking about, so above all, about those categories of population that are very sensitive, that are marginalized and that have even more difficult living conditions. First, I would point out that after October 5th, as you know, one of the first strategies done, Mrs Gordana Matkovic did, was a strategy on combating poverty, which was very well done. We had some successes at the beginning, poverty in Serbia began to decrease. But, as has already been said, poverty has increased dramatically in Serbia, and of course, dramatic and unemployment has increased, reflecting on the social structure, meaning not only this specific category of population, but the overall social structure. So, we don't know what the political consequences are that one part or almost half of our society has enormous difficulties in meeting basic needs and that is the line of poverty (this is not about the line of poverty, I will explain it)... means, which increases unemployment, which is huge and what political consequences it has for the overall functioning of the social, political and economic system. So far, you can't see in the mainstream how these main problems are going to be solved, because they're all reflected in this group that we're talking about here. The main advantage of this law, let me say the commendation that needs to be made, is that he has unearthed the door to this vast group of poor people and tried to intervene, when it comes to that group, means to increase the scope of those who can be considered absolutely poor. So we're not discussing poverty here, when we talk about this increase in volume, because it's, of course, much bigger. This law has no claim, nor can it help, because only certain economic and political measures and transformations of this society can help; other problems have led to such a situation. In relation to the old way, which he held back as recipients of monetary assistance, since they are here, the classic residual category of those people who do not have the means to live, cannot meet the needs because they are unable to work due to certain handicaps, diseases, disability or other reasons, we now have for the first time (I don't know, maybe before, I haven't been so close to this area lately) this phenomenon that even those who are capable of working can have access to financial assistance. I think that's good, given what I said, this almost tragic situation where our society and individual social classes are presently located. Now the question is... It's not about setting up a line of poverty, it's about setting up a line of absolute poverty. It's even made here, in my opinion, one attempt to pull that line, first of all through this nominal social aid that's listed here, so that's 6,050 dinars. Can we say in the debate that we are having here today that this is too restrictive, too low a line; can it live off that line, and even those basic needs be met, because it's about social and monetary aid that doesn't reach a hundred dollars? I appreciate that in certain cases there may be a certain increase of 20% and that each member of the family is also getting a certain increase, but all in all, I believe that this line that has been withdrawn for absolute poverty is very restrictive. Of course, we have to respect some relationships, we know that some pensions are very low, we know that minimum wages and wages can't live here either, but that only points to the tragic situation in which our society is – that it can't even live out of pay. Then imagine how you can live off the social aid that is at the level of the limit of absolute poverty. I'm leaving this for discussion. Is that where the good line was made? Perhaps, of course, in the answers, they'll give us some better explanation than we can find at this point. For now, surely the main advantage is that there will be an increase in the scope of those who can receive social assistance, who are able to work and who cannot live because they do not have employment. About this, I'd like to draw attention to some of the problems I've noticed. Perhaps it is a good thing now that for the increased volume of recipients of the welfare centre, it is necessary to make one life plan, an assessment for each individual, the recipient of such assistance, and the family (and it is called activation), how to get out of this, how to reach that social inclusion. I see some modernization here, because so far the social inclusion of that category of population that has been marginalized has not been the focus of attention. Of course, I'm putting a big question mark on how much we're really working on social inclusion right now, but if there's a plan to activate and co-operate with employment services how to get certain families and individuals out of this situation as soon as possible, to get this minimum social assistance, then I'm asking why the category so-called is retained. Missed earnings? Because this missed profit is not based on the records of a social worker or a worker who manages this case, but rather on the discretionary right of a social worker to assess whether the recipient of the financial assistance has missed some kind of profit. In a conversation with people who do practice, I have come to the conclusion that this can often be used to harm this category and these individuals who receive financial assistance. Here's the point: to say social worker – I saw you at the market, you sell bags, I'll take away two grand because you're making money there. So, this category has existed for about 20 years; given these innovations of social inclusion and activation, I don't see why it takes to remain this institute of missed earnings and that it exists in a particular member? How do you even estimate that missing profit? I think there may be abuse, reduction. On the one hand, we're registering a phenomenon, and over this old institute, we're kind of jeopardizing what we're trying to give. The next problem I see with the increased volume of cash donations and other services, is not just this, did the Ministry and your experts study the relationship between administrations, since huge paperwork is needed to get a decision to pay for financial aid? I don't know how many cases they're in charge of doing it themselves, who's supposed to do it? I have the impression that it's huge administrative paperwork and administration when it comes to this service. In some ways, the question arises whether you've calculated how much we're going to have to hire new people to work on it, because it's increasing, and you've increased the other services provided by the Social Labour Centre? Will the administration now be “a greater gift than a measure, ” will the administration eat more money than will be paid as social aid? So when it comes to the relationship between increasing administration and financial assistance, it seems to me that more will go to paperwork, to administration, than will be social aid itself. That's one of the questions that's being raised here. The second thing I wanted to point out is that it's a good thing you decided to introduce these dedicated transfers to the most underdeveloped municipalities. It's certainly a good thing, especially since lately, in an arrogant way, these transfers are completely arbitrarily abolished by municipalities. Many municipalities that are more developed, and not to mention underdeveloped municipalities, are simply said – you know how and you can do it. Then the municipalities raise taxes, taxes, to compensate, because these transfers are to all municipalities, and the most endangered and not to speak, suspended or minimal. Of course, we have to mention that never, for the rest of this government, it seems, will the property be returned to the municipalities, which also reduces their ability to solve certain social problems on their territory. I wanted to point out another problem. It is good that pluralism is introduced, as it is said in your explanation, service providers, so it can be associations, companies, businesses; in other words, private capital can participate. That's very good, it extends opportunities and state services, through instructions to such institutions, which must be licensed. But there are certain institutions that don't seem to belong in this domain. Are they even covered by control at all, I'd ask the question, is there any kind of surveillance of a fairly pampered measure of social intervention, and this is about domestic violence, about women with children who can avoid safe houses? These security houses are growing, not just one anymore, but more of them. Does anyone control what's going on in the security houses since I've heard there's a lot of trouble? I don't know if there's any kind of surveillance, because it's not about institutions directly, but it really falls into some kind of humanitarian activity that's being propagated through our most important media. I'm not going to say the problems I've heard about, but there doesn't seem to be any control here. Not even that legal norm, which was very good, to get the bully out of the apartment and the people who are threatened, most often the women and children, stay in that apartment, because we mostly have the escape of women and children from that apartment, and the bully remains to spread in that apartment... I don't see you trying to make some kind of intervention here, that this legal norm from family law is far more applied. Then it wouldn't have to be this kind of propaganda for some forms that could be secondary, not, like, the main one to solve this big problem. It's a good thing he even got a place in a law like this. Finally, I would like to highlight the problem I see in this law, and it may be the most important – it seems to me that it did not occur to you, I do not see that this law has an approach that recognizes problems, but is concentrated from beginning to end solely on individuals and users. So, to be able to solve individual problems successfully, I simply lack a word – problems and programs. So there's not enough developed concept of research, of what are the basic problems of this society, which was before much more present. The question is raised by some institutions that existed, for example, the Belgrade Centre for Addressing Social Problems from Russia Street, which had experts, I don't know what happened to that institution. You do not provide for an institution in Belgrade to study social problems, and you are predicting the formation of certain institutions, and one of them has already been formed. As far as I'm concerned, this office is either training or serving for the ministry's daily needs, but it's not focused on what I'm talking about. So this problem approach has to get a central place, just as much as an individual, because how are we going to deal with prevention? We can't fool ourselves, because social work centres, and they're always given to do preventive work, they can't do it. On this occasion, I'm going to point out, now, with this increased work of the social work center, I don't know how it's going to... I don't even know what a social labour center is, from public authority, what I was talking about earlier, cash donations, increased number of services, what are all the functions of the social labour center? It's becoming a huge piece of work. The organisation of this work here is not given, as colleague Elvira mentioned, everything is left to the minister. I think there's a lot of problems here. How is the social work centre organized today, what is its efficiency, how is this efficiency measured? We do not have well-developed institutions, which will provide information on how these institutions function. We also see that the standards regarding new services and the organisation of the work of the basic institution, so the Centre for Social Work, are left exclusively to the minister, or to his associates, so we don't know what's going on in these centres. They can't handle prevention, or they can only deal marginally. These institutions, such as institutions dealing with problems, long-term projections and selecting basic social problems, remained in the haze. The assignments of these institutions are listed there, but that doesn't happen in these institutions at all. I'd like to hear if there's been any relevant research that this institution you've established has done. It focuses solely on the individual, instead of selecting and registering problems and software approach. I think it's a little old-fashioned. You have introduced novelties: self-life, self-inhabitation, terminology, no more of that old social user classification, which has been expelled, and then considered to be labelling and in some way discrimination against people, by being social security users. There have been some shifts in the modernization of terminology itself, but it seems to me that the approach is only in relation to the individual, without looking at the broader context and selecting basic problems. When I say this, I mean, the experts I've had the chance to talk to, and I've been dealing with this problem in my life... For example, one of the most difficult problems is rural nursing homes. There's no special treatment for this problem, because it's just not registered. He hasn't been studied, and everyone told me... Here, two months ago, two old men died in the country, starving. You also have this mortgage and mortgage institute, where after the death of such people you can compensate for social aid. However, I ask the question, is there a certain tradition, the binding of people to the country, this socio-psychological aspect, because these old people are very hard to give up their countries? Since they can't solve these questions alone, then those five or six thousand dinars to get that nursing home... They don't get anything, and we have a situation where the old man in the country is simply starving because that help can't be realized. I would suggest, when it comes to this absolute poverty, except for that paperwork, which is huge and which will take away huge resources, to allow an expert worker at the social worker's center to have his opinion on poverty and the situation taken as a fact, and not just paperwork, which takes away huge resources, and leads to these problems that I was talking about when it comes to nursing households. In the end, since I see that it's come to an end, I've got a lot of regrets for the inspection, that's where you made the great papaziania. I don't know who that auditor is, where these auditors are, are they at the social work center, are they at the Ministry? You have a cash-aid audit, who are these auditors? Let's say you have an inspector, and the inspector controls the inspection. When I read about the system of work control in this area, I asked the question – who is father and mother in the first place? You just can't see what control system it is. It seems to me that he's too congested, he's confused; there's no telling who these social security inspectors are, what they're dealing with. I think that question should be cleared up much more closely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50892	The word is made by the People's Messenger of Gordan Rajkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50893	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Social Protection Act is an extremely important system law, given that, according to the latest data, poverty in Serbia is on the rise, that a large number of citizens do not have jobs, that the percentage of the old people in Europe are among the biggest; also, given that the right to social protection, as defined by Article 4 of this Law, has each individual and family who need social assistance and support in order to overcome social and life difficulties and create conditions to meet the basic needs of life. I'm afraid a large number of Serbian citizens could be identified in this definition. This is a law, as previous speakers and Mr. Minister have already said, which is expected and whose adoption has been delayed for years. The law, which is still in force, was passed in 1991. Since then, of course, its many changes and additions have been made, but the problem is that it is not a fundamental change in the concept of that law, which was based on a system of rights in social protection. Services provided only institutions, state institutions of social protection; there was an administrative procedure and the user was party to the procedure. The place of other actors who have appeared over the last ten years to mitigate the lack of this concept, such as civil society organisations, was not clearly arranged, although these organisations appeared as providers of many innovative services and filled the gap that existed there. Unfortunately, they always worked within the project framework, which meant that their services were not sustainable. Of course, it's a good thing we're passing the law now. It is not good that we waited twenty years to bring it in, but as every thing has its good and bad sides, it is good that the situation was not peaceful in the meantime, what was happening in 2005 was different reform and strategic processes, which we received the Social Protection Development Strategy in 2005 and, as we heard from Mr. Minister, in over 100 municipalities local plans for local development strategies were brought in. The Social Innovation Fund was indeed a good institute, which enabled the testing of a number of new services and projects, so that through previous testing and verifications in the practice of certain solutions we could now introduce them into the law, which would mean that the application of these provisions should not presently be a problem. The bill we are considering today is actually a change in the social responsibility model. From the social security model, which is based on protection and care, we should move towards social inclusion, i.e. creating equal opportunities for full participation of marginalised or socially excluded groups, which is certainly in line with European development strategies. What is certainly commendable, already mentioned by Mr. Minister and colleague Elvira, is that over a year, a large, broad consultation process has been conducted in relation to the work version of the draft law, allowing local self-governments and institutions and social protection organisations to comment on the text, so that the wider professional public and special civil society organisations, but also citizens, whose practically skin and life are involved, take part in the process. This has really helped to make the work plan significantly improved, since many of the solutions that have emerged in the public debate have been incorporated into the law later. Given the width and number of areas that the bill regulates and, of course, the time available, I will remain in the debate only on certain parts of it. I think it's important that this new concept, instead of a system of rights, is based on a system of services in the field of social protection, which is again regulated in relation to the needs of users. It's a good thing we have different service providers now, instead of, as so far, just an institution of the system. I think it's a good thing the user stays in the focus of interest and appears as a partner in this whole process. Mr. Minister has already mentioned the principles on which the law is based, which are entered into the text of the law, which I think is good. Some of them may once again, because I think they are very important, which is that the law is based on the principles of respect for the integrity and dignity of users, and I hope so (until now, people who were able to social needs had everything but dignity); then, on the prohibition of discrimination, on the best interests of users and on the least restrictive environment and the principle of availability and individualisation of social protection. These principles give rise to and recognise the general rights of users in Articles 34 to 39, of which I am particularly concerned about the right to participate in decision-making and the right to free choice of service. These members say the user has the right to participate in the assessment of his or her condition and needs and to decide whether to accept a particular service, as well as to receive a notice of available material services and that the service cannot be provided to him if he does not agree, in accordance with the law. I think this is a very important provision, because so far it's been a practice for people who find themselves in that situation to actually not be able to bring up their own judgment and say what it is they would want, which they would be happy about, because somebody else would always decide what's best for them. The right to social protection, of course, is provided by providing services and material support. As far as services are concerned, I think it is good to introduce pluralism services in Article 9 where the Republic, autonomous province and local self-government can trust social protection and other legal and physical persons. This means that actually different civil society providers and the private sector will get a legal basis for what they have been doing so far. It is also good that the system of social services, which has five, has been defined. Mr. Minister spoke very closely of individual planned services, so I won't repeat it. But I think it is important to point out that in defining individual services in each group of these services this list is not final and allows for the development of other services in each individual group. I think this is very important because it leaves the possibility of further developing innovative services, some of which we can't even assume now that it will appear, which will allow us to find the best answers, and we won't have to wait for the adoption of a new law or amendments to be arranged. For persons with disabilities, it is important that the law provides for the introduction of work centres, Article 41, which will provide services aimed at improving their working skills, i.e. the employment of disabled persons, who cannot otherwise be employed under general or special conditions, and in accordance with the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. This is one newspaper that is really important for this category. As has already been spoken, the service security will go both by ordering and contracting, in case the system institutions cannot provide these services. They will be ordered by publication of a public call and conclusion of a contract between the competent authority and licensed service providers, which means that practically the law introduces a licensing system as a newspaper. We hope that it will contribute to improving the quality of services, but also to controlling the services that will be provided, especially given the pluralism of service providers. This, of course, also implies the need to introduce standards in order to obtain a licence, which is otherwise defined by Article 179. However, I think that this member has one deficiency, which is that the conditions for obtaining a licence, as well as the reason for losing a license, which is exactly the same, focuss only on structural standards, or on organising the service itself, such as space, the number of trained professionals involved, etc., but does not mention functional content, such as service content, the activities that are monitored, which are very important for the quality of these services. With that in mind, I have submitted an amendment to this article and I will talk more about it in detail. As for material support, which is of course in various forms, from financial assistance to assistance and care allowance to other persons, and an increased allowance for this assistance, I have had the largest number of contacts with organisations of persons with disabilities and individuals who have shown the greatest interest in this institution of care and assistance supplements. I have also submitted amendments to these articles in 92 and 94, because since the draft law entered into the assembly procedure, amendments and additions to the Pension and Invalidity Insurance Act have been adopted, to which this law is based, and we believe that this requires the addition of these members. According to the assessment of most civil society organisations dealing with categories of endangered groups, one of the biggest improvements, as Mr. Minister said, is certainly the institution of material donations from the Republic's budget for endangered citizens. This primarily refers to work incompetent people, including old people, whom, under the new law, financial welfare will be increased. A real estate censorship was raised, suggesting a significantly higher number of poor people would be included. What I think is good, at least that's how we got a notice from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, is that this provision of the law will be able to come into force very quickly, and right after the law is passed, it won't have to wait for a long period of time for that. I think that some of the biggest challenges of this law are to provide financial resources in the budget for the application of the whole law, beyond this part of the issue material, especially those services that need to be financed by the local community, regardless of the good news being the introduction of an institute of means. There is great concern in the organisations of people with disabilities and others who gather vulnerable groups, that services at the level of the local community will not be able to finance many municipalities, and also that, in fact, they say, nothing is guaranteed by law, in the sense that it is binding. It is stated that the user has the right, but not that local self-government has the obligation to provide it, but to examine needs and to provide resources to the service. So there is a concern that this good intention regarding a large number of services in local communities will not be able to be realised very quickly. Organisations that have so far been engaged in projecting different services are also concerned about the possibility of applying minimum standards and whether they will be able to be in some way competitive with state providers, because their starting positions are not the same. I also have an obligation to say that childcare organisations, including children with developmental disorders, have mentioned as a challenge to the provisions of Article 54, which says that a home for housing of children and young people cannot have more capacity than 50, since according to new definitions relating to institutional accommodation is considered a large institution where there are more than 25 children. Of course, given what the situation looks like now, over hundreds of users in some institution, we think that this provision in law is a really big shift, but we still have the task of working on finding opportunities for better solutions. Of course, as for any law, the challenge will be the speed of a number of sublaws, which should enable the law to be applied. Nevertheless, I think it is indisputable that this bill represents a major twist and a positive shift in Serbia's social policy. Given its great importance for a large number of citizens in Serbia, especially those who have difficulty living, the G17 Group of MPs plus in the voting day will support the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50894	Seventeen minutes and fifty seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50895	Dear President, Mr Ljajic, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ladies of the Ministry of Health, Associates, allow me, on behalf of the PUPS Group, to present our position on today's subject, that is, the proposal for a social protection law. First of all, we got a proposal for a good law after twenty years. The constitutional basis for the adoption of such a social protection law is found in Article 69. The Constitution of our republic. According to the mentioned member of the Constitution, citizens and families who need social assistance to overcome social and life difficulties and create conditions to meet the basic needs of life have the right to social protection, whose provision is based on the principles of social justice, humanism and respect for human dignity. In Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides: a system in other forms of social security (point 8), a system in the field of social protection (point 10), as well as the financing of the exercise of the rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia established by the Constitution and the law (point 15). As specific objectives of the Social Protection Development Strategy, adopted in 2005 (‘the Official Messenger’ 108/05), two objectives are set: the first objective – improving the protection of the poorest citizens, and the second specific objective – of developing a network of services in the community. According to the above, this bill, which we are launching today, provides mechanisms for extending aid to the poor, through higher amounts of transfers and a social protection network involving the most vulnerable groups of citizens who have had difficulty using social protection so far. These days talk about how many citizens live, i.e. They survive in the greatest misery. That's all you talk about. There's no help. Unfortunately, he's got help. In the proposal of this, we must take something else, that demographics are certain proof of this claim. People's cuisines are also part of this part of the job, and they are certain evidence of the state's social impotence and the problems our country has with this problem. They say there are about 750,000 hungry, unfavourable, illiterate, whose life is poor and living in difficult conditions of life, full of unforeseeable obstacles and groins. If we add both sickness and disability, which always go with each other, then the picture is poor, black and heavy. If we think about children, the picture is complete, and the fate of these people is uncertain. That is why I propose, on behalf of the United Pensioners of Serbia, that we go into the making of social cards across all the municipalities of the Republic, for all the households. The subject of today's debate, Madam Chairman, is a proposal for a new social protection law. We should accept this text of the proposed law through amendments and vote. I assure you that the MPs of the United Pensioners of Serbia will do so. We have tied this bill to future times, to the future years and the future of the people of this Serbia, above all to its citizens, and to the most endangered layers, taking responsibility for finding the best solutions, through amendments, which, with the help of all of us MPs, all parties, will lead to a solution, to a better standard, a better life for those who need to be in the contingent of those who care and solidarity. Dear Mr. Minister, the MPs of the United Pensioners' Party of Serbia will vote for this good law in the day to vote. Why? Because the wishes and proposals of the MPs of the United Pensioners of Serbia, or all MPs, are to make a major contribution to making it more effective in the faster social inclusion and reduction of poverty in our country, and thus to achieving social justice. By amending the text and accepting the amendments, we want to influence and make a full contribution from the United Pensions of Serbia Party to improving the social situation of the country's poorest and poorest part of the country's population. In order to resolve this, it is in our opinion that the creation of jobs and employment of all categories of the population, both in the country and in the city, is needed, in our opinion, with greater involvement of the Ministry of Agriculture and especially families with disabled members. In the inclusion of disabled persons in the education system and their faster employment, we see a chance that everything above can be solved. In other words, we of the United Pensioners of Serbia think that because of those who are in a position to receive social assistance, to which this bill applies, we, Members of Parliament, must accept and vote in the day of voting this good bill. Sensitive, vulnerable or vulnerable population groups are groups of people who have certain health risks and are particularly sensitive and insecure about changing the environment. A vulnerable person is considered to lack support and defence mechanisms at the state, national, local and family level. Sensitivity is linked to the lack of a mechanism of defence and protection of individuals and families or the entire community. The most common factor in vulnerabilities is: individual, genetic and other biological factors, developmental characteristics, education and growth of persons, professions and functions of the family, social, socio-economic status, ethnicity, gender issues, human rights and freedoms, discrimination, the legislative framework, attitudes and behaviour of official services, systems and others. Among the projects funded are integrated programmes for health and social programmes of vulnerable population groups financed by both the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Here are several basic remarks and suggestions: that the selection of the director of the social work centre is not done by local self-government, but by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The ministry pays employees' work, and at a high percentage, it controls their work, and it's normal to appoint its directors. At the Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade, there is a direction for social work and social policy, as well as for the draft law in Article 124. A team or team in the field of social work is a permanent composition of equal experts, but different professions, in which each expert has its basic obligations. The social worker is a parent figure and takes care of all problems, connects all members of the team, users and members of his family, as well as the working and living environment. This honorable profession of a social worker has also found its place in the Family Law, and in the Law on Child Protection and in the Law on Criminal and Legal Treatment of Juvenile Persons. In addition, all the most important socio-political organisations that were or could be of importance to social policy have given and give full support to this profession. These personnel are in the economy, health care, education, employment services, PIO services, courts, MIP prevention services, socio-humanitarian and disabled organisations. Mr. Minister, Article 124 requires the Director of the Centre to be a graduate social worker. But since this year, this profession at the Faculty of Political Sciences will no longer be called that, but rather a policyholder for social work, so I ask you that in the bill, that we do not change it quickly... Check this out with the Faculty of Political Sciences, it can be put on. Secondly, to introduce the right of disabled persons to personal assistants, as has been done in Belgrade. We believe that for farmers, persons of employment, for persons of self-operation should be the same amount for everyone, because the basis for achieving other people's help and care is disability, not this other part of the job. Now that difference is considerable. Fourth, to introduce the right to help the old faces, both in the city and in the country, these geronto-homewives. The village has more pressing problems, especially since there are 10-15 villages in some areas with no doctors and others to help them. We therefore believe that a mandatory right to material security should also be introduced in the rural area. Next, that one-time aid is not shared by the local self-government system, as they do today. They have their own board of resolution requests in a state of social need; several billion dinars are being passed through these commissions for political marketing parties in government in certain municipalities, for addition and care and assistance of another person. Changes in the area of social protection are directly related to demographic change – the extension of the life span of the population, the low employment rate, the low growth of the social product and the poor inflow of funds into the budget, which certainly makes it much more difficult to work in this area. The economic situation is such that it cannot meet all the requirements, which we at PUPS are particularly concerned about. According to us, if we add low information to citizens on their rights under this bill, we understand that it is at a low level, and the proposal of this law and what it carries directly affects the lives and future of those who are in a position to use social protection. With due attention, and starting with the principle of accountability and household business with budgetary resources for those who are in a state of need, the United Pensioners Party has also seen those solutions which are rights and which must be respected. We believe that the debate in principle and then the amendments and in particular the question of how to deal with the country's accumulated social problems will be answered. This bill of law is great. Mr. Minister, I assure you that all PUPS MPs in the voting day will vote for this bill, and I myself. In that name, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50896	Twelve minutes and fifty-five seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Milisav Petronijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50897	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Ministry, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS-JS Group, I would like to express my position on the proposal for a social protection law. Immediately at the beginning, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a social protection law and, of course, vote in favour of the law for the following reasons. I want to thank the Minister for very detailedly presenting the law, so I wouldn't convince, but I would like to explain why I support such a law. First of all, I want to say that I believe that the Social Protection Act is a very important law, the system law of the highest rank, the law that legitimizes the government that is committed to resolving these issues. Not to use big words about the bill, I will turn it into support through one sentence – it promotes the social protection of those who are most endangered, all those who are powerless, old, sick, with special needs or incompetent to work, not to mention further. I would also like to point out that, just in terms of the economic crisis, we should not run away from this problem, but we should face it. That is why I support this law, because in this way the government is legitimateised to want to solve issues, not to talk, because in the very conditions of the economic crisis, social risks that are primarily exposed, weak, old, sick, all who have no means or strength to solve their problems or are unable to defend themselves against violence etc. I support this law for another reason, which he legislates this government to deal with a problem in Serbia called poverty, does not run away from it, knows that there is great poverty in Serbia and wants to help poor people with its measures and in this way, starting with the fact that it is not a shame to be poor, it is a shame to be insensitive to it and not to solve these issues. I know that poverty is not only being solved by the social protection law, we know that poverty is being resolved or predetermined primarily by rapid economic growth, development, higher employment, higher wages, etc., but, let's face it, it's a banner that's been stabbed out there somewhere, to which we're going. Poverty calls for an emergency rescue. There is an expression of the social protection law, which provides assistance, creates a basis, framework, mechanisms, new programmes to help people. For these reasons, we support this bill. I don't want to repeat, if I go back to the very text of the law, there's going to be an opportunity, and in the debate in particular it's said specifically about it, I just want a few more notes to make. I think that the law in one sentence, starting with the definition of what social protection is, came logically from what the goals are to achieve, and then routed the way to get to these goals – to achieve them by providing services, and then elaborated them, increased their number and scope, through material support as a second kind, at this moment and most important for the citizens of Serbia, by introducing increased financial assistance and assistance supplements to other persons, and increased additions to help other people, etc. He defined who the users are, the user groups, who provides social protection services, institutions and other service providers, so as not to list any further. All this leads to one social protection system and for this reason we support this law. I want to say that this is one of the laws that had the widest possible debate, I want to say that my MP group participated in it last year, that my party participated in this debate, that we gave suggestions and suggestions, that the largest number of them were respected. I simply want to make it clear that a law is being passed that should not only be beautifully written, but that all opinions, professions and all of them should be heard, and that it is then a law that will truly achieve the role we want. For these reasons, I would like to call on the Ministry, the Minister to hold this today, through principle, and the next days through a debate in particular, also to be a final public debate. When I say so, I mean that I would like to suggest that every proposal given through the amendments be paid attention, not to look at who gave them, but whether they contribute to the improvement of that law and that all that is worth respecting. And we have some suggestions, we're going to explain them, and we want to improve, help to get to the better. For example, the issue of biological families that have children with special needs, distracted in development – should be considered whether to equalise them with foster families etc. So these are already some details we'll talk about when there's a debate in particular. I wanted to say that we should also consider this as a final debate and that every idea, every proposal, no matter who it comes from, we should respect it, and we should consider it with the greatest respect, and we should accept what we think is improving the law. I single out two characteristic things: these are services that achieve the objectives of protection, which are expanded and highly qualityd, defined, from providing day-to-day assistance to accommodation. It is observed that the family is put first. It is noted that family accommodation is favored, which justifies what is stated here. Of course, I would like, in line with that people’s “Do not bury the well until you dig up others, ” let us also pay attention to those home institutions that have proven themselves; until we create some better conditions, they should have full attention. When it comes to material support, what is most important for citizens at this time to survive in these conditions, through a system of permanent financial assistance, increased financial assistance, aid to other people, increased assistance to other people, one-time assistance, etc., it is noted that the government has made a great effort here; even the greatest expansion, I would say, refers to this particular area; as far as I think it will cost about four billion dinars for these things. That's where the government comes in, when it comes to this area. I want to stay on one more question, briefly, and that's a question of decentralisation. decentralisation is not controversial, and even in this area, the only thing to pay attention to is that decentralisation is accompanied by funds. It can be seen that the proposer predicted a type transfer, if I can call it that, three species, where we issue the first one, which refers to the municipalities that are least developed, so that it is not only decentralised. As far as I can tell, it's about half a billion extra funds for that kind of transfer. I'd like to support an approach that is characteristic of this law. The commitment of the state is to take care of endangered citizens in any way, but not just states, but societies and social communities in general, of course, and citizens. But the obligation of the state must not be neglected. In doing so, the law says that a lot of local self-government units are doing, even increasing the scope of rights, etc. I want to support it, but I also want to draw attention to the fact that the units of local self-government that have the means, and the way I talked about it earlier, through this type of transfer, but there are local self-governments that have the means, but they have no political will. It's something that needs to be pointed out. I want to publicly praise the Belgrade city authorities here, when it comes to this area, through data: for these issues in 2009 three and a half billion, in 2010, four billion, in 2011 four and seven hundred -- free meals, one-time assistance, material security, subsidies for municipal costs, not to mention all, additional forms of protection of pregnant women and maternity care, aid to pensioners whose incomes do not exceed 15,000 (four times a year) etc. It's something that speaks of political will and willingness to help those categories of the population. It's not a small asset, it's a large asset, and a large number of people are covered by it. I want to support it and commend it. I know there are municipalities, cities that don't have the resources to help through this type transfer, but I want to call those who have, and they don't have enough political will to solve it. The quality of all of us, the whole country, is how much we care for those who are powerless, whether they are old, whether they are sick, whether they are incapable of work, whether they are in a state of special needs, etc. I think that through this law on social protection, the government has rightly legitimately legitimated itself to want to solve these problems, problems in this area, aware that there are many in Serbia, and does not want to cry over these problems, but to solve them. For these reasons, we will support this bill on social protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50898	Sixteen minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50899	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am surprised that such an important topic as social protection and the social situation in Serbia is spoken of in this way, quietly, spontaneously, no one is commenting on the factual state. Poverty is one of the biggest and most serious problems in the world. One of the Millennium goals is to combat poverty. The UN countries agreed and pledged to work intensively to eradicate and overcome this problem by 2015. Now I will show you very vivid figures how the government of the Republic of Serbia has responded to this millennium goal and how it is working to combat poverty in Serbia. This is Serbia's social map. Two million poor citizens, out of which 300,000 children live on the edge or below the poverty line. There are three million people in Serbia, with 500,000 users of some kind of social assistance. Data on users of folk cuisine are very different: the data of the Red Cross is 30,000 users, the information of the advisers of Mr. Minister, Pejakovic - 36,000, and the minister's data in one interview is - 40,000 users. Of which, six thousand users are children, and of which two and a half thousand are those who are less than ten years old. I must mention that in 2009, the number of people's kitchen users was 21,000. The percentage of the poor is 3% higher in the village than in cities, about 10% higher in the old village population and above 9% in children up to 14 years old. Only 1,800,000 employees are employed in Serbia. He regularly pays the salaries of 17% of employers. He gets 650,000 employees' salary irregularly. The welfare company is receiving 63,000 families. This is aid of 5,300 dinars for single-member households, i.e. for a multi-member household of 10,700 dinars. That's very small. You're talking about an increase in the amount. This increase has already eaten your inflation, and this increase also tells us that the pre-election year is ahead of us. The child's allowance is receiving 202,000 families. It is, as regular, 1,800 dinars and an increase of 2,400 dinars. What else can I say? Grief. Five hundred thousand pensioners receive a pension of less than 13,000 dinars. No comment. When we created a new government in 2000, which decided to work to eradicate poverty, 13.6% of those living below the poverty line were recorded. The government managed to reduce to 6.6% in 2006. In 2009, that percentage was about 9.2%. There are no data on 2010 yet, but there are data published by CESID after his survey in May, which says that 14% of non-food-free citizens, 27% of those who have food only, without any other need. Mr. Minister, that third of Serbia's population survives. Data for 2009: the extremely poor were 9.2%, with incomes below 8.300 dinars. For over 65 years, that percentage is 10.1%. In the unemployed, 19.3%. Among the most endangered are children up to 13 years old and single mothers, as well as multi-member families. Serbia is now at the level of 70% of GDP in 1989. It's the way the Serbian government fights poverty. One of Serbia's scariest paintings is folk cuisine. I've already mentioned that the number of people's kitchen users varies, you just don't know, because the data is different. The red cross should give the most correct information. That's about 30,000. About 72 soup kitchens currently exist in Serbia. There are many more users today than in 2009. What is scary and devastating is that among those 30,000 - 40,000 users of folk cuisine 6,000 children stand in line for one loaf of bread and half a liter of cooked meals, which is 2,500 younger than 10 years of age. There is a huge need for folk cuisines, but the opening of folk cuisine depends not only on the need, depending on the financial resources. On the other hand, it is a good thing that the Serbian government defines some of the funds for those municipalities that are unable to open folk cuisine, but the fact is that people's cuisines have not been or have been shut down where they are most needed, in southeastern Serbia and in southern Serbia. Today, Mr. President of the Labour and Social Affairs Committee asked where the state is. I'll say that today the state is where the new "human cuisine" is opened, on the Kopalnik. That's where the state is. From that folk kitchen, they show us their faces. The first criterion by which we can really measure one country, the integrity of the country and that society is to treat children, especially children who are socially at risk, who are poor, who really have neither the most basic things, nor the most basic things to eat. According to data published by UNICEF, which is the only one who has done qualitative research among families with children receiving social assistance, the data show that, for the poorest reduction in consumption, not only is giving up on anything that is not necessary but also giving up on a more high-quality diet. Although best for children, food is scarce and unquality, without enough milk and meat. What I'm saying right now is the answers to those who have been interviewed. You don't buy milk and meat for months. Vegetables and fruits – I share one banana with them, without candy, juice and ice cream. There are respondents who say children deny anything but food, and there are those who say they can't even provide food. They say – often they stay hungry, then they eat bread and tea. I'm going to stop here, first of all, because what I've said is a terrible picture of Serbia, and secondly, to ask Minister Ljajic how he is standing right now with the spread of optimism, that psychological movement that was ordered by President Tadic, who is also the author of that psychological movement, somewhere in front of New Year's Eve? The standard of living of citizens has never been worse, and you say you are socially responsible to the government. Imagine you're just not socially responsible. This law has long been announced as one of the most important measures Serbia will fight against poverty, and it should and must be. There has been a public debate here for a long time, many groups have said what needs to be said and what should have been changed, but what we as DSS resent this law is that it is once again helmeting with prevention. Once again, the state is giving some intervention measures, and these intervention measures will not contribute to the improvement in Serbia, especially because crumbs are being allocated and because we only contribute to such intervention measures the passive character of the users to whom we should address. Now I'm gonna talk about the law. The law should come from the responsibility of the state to exercise citizens' rights, but in the opening part of the law, you say you will talk about the needs of citizens and you are putting us all to the point of doubt whether this law should speak of the needs of citizens or citizens' rights. I remind you that Serbia is a signator of many conventions. We've ratified a lot of conventions that talk about children's rights. Here, I thought of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. By making a dilemma about whether we are talking about rights or about needs, we are misleading all citizens of Serbia. So, if we have ratified a convention, we have committed ourselves to taking on a permanent commitment from the state to ensure these rights, not only when the need is identified and when there are resources, as you said further. I must remind you that you are a pro-European government, so I ask you to use terms that are European and that appear in all European laws as "the right of citizens", not as "the needs of citizens". In addition, if you are talking about needs, then the formulation you use, which refers to an assessment of needs, means that someone’s need will be left to a free appraisal. It is a very dangerous thing, these free estimates are always a prelude to corruption, and this further means that under the same conditions some users will remain deprived of social protection. That's what's happened so far, but I thought this law would make it right. The law says everyone has an obligation to take care of themselves, Article 8, so you repeated it in Article 80. If that's a finding, then it's okay and you can bring it into the law, but I guess this law is meant for those citizens who need the support of the state. The law is for those who are poor, living on the margins of society, the law is for those who are socially excluded. How, then, is your responsibility for the situation in which you are being brought down on these same citizens? You don't need this law to regulate every citizen's responsibility for his life. This law must regulate the responsibility of the state in accordance with ratified conventions on human rights and the highest standards in respect of those rights. There is another problem – what about those who inherited their poverty, what about children who inherited their poverty from their parents? What about the kids with the handicap? The handicap is defined as a lack of infrastructure, services, support, awareness, everything that bothers and misses one society so that all children are involved in the life of their community. How can these children help to improve their family’s material and social position? I just can't. Society must find a solution for those who have inherited poverty. Research tells you that those who are born in poverty, those who live in poverty most often leave this poverty to their children. Speaking of the principles you used here, I must say that you forgot... I don't know if you've forgotten or just for some reason you haven't put it on, but I'd like you to comment on it. This is the principle of inclusiveness. It is the support of an individual, a series of activities to look at the obstacles that exist in society, with the ultimate goal of involving the individual in the life of his community. As long as we look at the individual and his needs isolated, we will never get to the key, or the cause of the problems that led to social exclusion. In this way, we will deal only with the consequences, and we will not go to the source, according to what caused the problem. This is very bad for two reasons: the first is that we cannot adequately help an individual to participate in the life of the community; secondly, it is more expensive for the state. I'll give you an example. You talk a lot about family support and family housing, and somehow you forget to mention what kind of help you're going to give to a biological family. By the way, I have to mention, this is the second law that you represent without mentioning the word "parent" anywhere. We still have parents, the law still exists, and you're legally referring to them as guardians. Next, you don't say how you're going to help a biological family in a material, advisory and any other sense not to put a child into another family or any other kind of institutional protection. Not to mention, in law, you almost don't touch the question of biological families with children with disabilities. That's a big problem. We often had parents who are in this situation, who can't work because they live with that problem and have to take care of the child. You don't solve it. By the way, you support the life of children in the family. You support their survival in the local community, and then you allow the establishment of large institutions that accommodate 50 users, 50 children. Clearly, 25 are a large number of children for one such institution. If the legislator's intensities are to support the life of children and young people in the family, the local community, then it is better to keep the number of children smaller. We think it would be more efficient, more quality for the country if the family were given preventive support. The law potentifies support for foster families and that's perfectly fine, but I would ask you to address the biological family as well. It's very good that you recognized and mentioned the concept of social inclusion, or social exclusion, but you don't define it, which is bad. This is the right place to define it and to definitely resolve this problem through a social security system. You talk very often about social protection users being children, and it's good that you recognized it in this law, but I don't see you talking to children who are perpetrators of crimes, or children who have behavioral problems. You kind of skip them in this part, though I can see you talk to kids a lot. For example, I have the information from December 2008, when you singled out a million dinars from your budget from the position of childcare in the name of ticket purchase for the Emina Jahovic concert. That's what I see here. I don't know if it helped the kids get involved, but maybe it did. The question of local self-government -- I think it's a good thing that you touched it that way, which is how you tried to find the right measure where the role of local self-government is. In the end, local self-government is the one that is in direct contact with social work centres. I don't share the opinion of my PUPS colleagues who say you should be the directors to determine you, not the local community. First of all, social work centres are in the bar and they are directly connected to strategic documents and action plans from the locals; they know their resources, material and professional. The locals can achieve one multi-sectoral approach and reach out more to those who have problems. As far as the centre is concerned, I must comment that I really expected you to be much more realistic, given that the complaints made by the users are always that the centres for the social work of the three institutions, institutions that do not correspond to their purposes, are not doing their job. It seems to me that you've been redocrating the centers again, the users will be wasting their time retrieving the paperwork. Look, it's about people on the edge, on the sidelines of society, who are socially excluded, and they really can't fight the institutions, whose institutions and the supply of paper are a big problem. That's where we made one amendment. I think that amendment will be accepted, I suppose. What is very important, you guarantee pluralism service, which is very good. I think it would be better for you to define here this relationship between state and private service providers and their funding from the budget, which is one way to regulate, although it seems rather vague. You mention equal treatment for the civil sector. It is very good that the civil sector has entered this area, first of all because the civil sector has had much better, truer data from the Centre for Social Work on many areas of social services for years. Like, now I'm talking about SOS phones, that's what I thought. I think it's good that you recognized it, but it seems to me that you didn't put them in an equal relationship, because they first have to go through those in the social work centres to apply for projects. Those who, which is a public secret, have made their NGOs, with whom they apply for budget funds, local, province or state. Simply, you have to make sure that it's a very good introduction to corruption, and that corruption has been expressed for years. That's what workers who work in these centers comment on. For older users, we have a problem again with the number of those you place in a home – which is too large. We have a lot of amendments that concern old people. The question for you is, what about farm pensions? They're not paid and late. The state thus introduces these people, these pensioners in the country, into a circle of poverty, and I don't know how you'd help them. I have a lot of comments, and I don't have much time. The agency you need to establish... I don't think there's any need. You also have an employee education. You say it's a personal obligation, at the expense of those who are educated, and then an employer's obligation. I must remind you that the Labour Act in its Article 49 says that education and professional training is exclusively an obligation of the employer. I'd like you to coordinate. By the way, when you coordinate, you agree that the concept of youth disagrees with the concept of youth that has been set by the national youth strategy. There's a young man up to 30. You have a young man in law who is 26 years old. I understand what this is about, but simply, in two documents in Serbia, it wouldn't be right for different things to appear. We still have a lot of comments, and I'd like to talk about it. We have about 50 amendments, I mean 52 amendments. There'll be time to talk about it. We have before us a law that made a small step. We expected much more from him, given how he was announced, since we participated in many public discussions and listened to what people commented. Some things you did in the meantime, some things you didn't. I don't think there's any prevention in this law, it's still going to be cashing in on those consequences that you've done as a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50900	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50901	I will talk about these remarks, suggestions, suggestions that have been made here at the end of this debate. In the presentation of Ms. Milice Vojić Markovic, there are things that stand, and there are things that are absolutely not true, even a lot of material mistakes, but I'll talk about it later. What I have to say now is, that's your accusation, the libel spoken here in parliament, that I've singled out a million dinars from the budget for the Emina Jahovic concert, to buy tickets to that concert. If that's true, I should go to jail. If that's not true, you should apologize here for saying it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50902	Thank you. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on social protection that we are discussing here today is a very important system law for the citizens of Serbia. The MPs of the SRS want to get to know the public about what this, as you say, is a reform law, a team before every time Mr Ljajic has explained his laws in this parliament, we realize that he wants to remind us, and also the citizens of Serbia, that Serbia is walking in a large and secure manner towards Europe and the EU. But, dear Serbian citizens, if you take a little walk around this beautiful Serbia of ours, which the SRS MPs do regularly, not only during the pre-election campaign, as the others do, you will be convinced that it is not. We welcome every establishment of social protection and social security. In fact, we are to settle and introduce order in this area, but in this bill it is not the case, although you have had twenty years at your disposal, although you have had eleven amendments and additions to the applicable Social Security and Social Security Act. Poverty in Serbia is a consequence, and the cause is poor political, economic and social moves by ruling coalitions from October 5th to today. The bill draws attention from the burning problem, with the problems of Serbia's poorest citizens and problems as simple, most efficient and quickest help. In fact, Serbian citizens do not want social assistance, Serbian citizens want to work, be adequately paid for what they do and can support their families from their incomes. Serbian radicals believe the essence of good social policy is a good economic policy. Official policy may not want or have mechanisms to protect socially endangered citizens to keep them in some kind of addiction as long as possible. We all know what kind of country we live in. The economic policy of the government, in which you too, Mr. Minister, sit, is devastating for this country. The results of economic policy have been shown in these three years. The results are devastating: instead of 200,000 new jobs, which you promised in the campaign, there are 400,000 jobless people, or 550 people lost their jobs on a daily basis or, more specifically, 70 people per hour. Also, unemployment in Serbia is the largest in the region, about minus 26.7%; then, the highest inflation rate - over 11%, and the governor in Kopalnik announces that this inflation rate will continue to grow; the lowest wages in the environment - about 32,000; then, industrial production is reduced by 12%; market monopoly; overall misery, poverty, general apathy and hopelessness. The amount of material security for families who had no income for September 2010 was 5,694 dinars, and for the four-member family of 10,665 dinars. Under the proposal for a new law, the cash compensation intended to protect the poorest layers of the population is called monetary social assistance and that is the compensation for providing guaranteed minimum income. In its essence, it is identical with the fees that were referred to in previous legal solutions as “material security, ” or “material family security. ” The proposal for a new law introduces the concept of basics in the nominal amount, which you propose in Article 87, and it amounts to 6,050 dinars because it is multiplying by a coefficient of 1,00. The amount and method of determining the level of financial social assistance is defined in Article 88. For the individual, it stands at 6,050 and for the four-member family about 13,000 dinars. Exports of assistance to Serbia for multi-member households are significantly lower than in the surrounding countries, and that is what is very bad. Can you, Mr. Minister, give advice to the families on how to survive these givings? What can they buy monthly with 13,000 dinars when in Serbia the average consumer basket, according to the latest surveys, is about 50,000 dinars? This is unacceptable for us. We believe that the state must be an opposition to poverty and to prevent its laws from destroying the social and existential state of man by performing timely intervention. The issue of poverty is not only a question of income, but also the availability of health, education and other services necessary for life. Unfortunately, the number of users of material security is growing year by year, but it remains a small percentage of those who manage to make these contributions; in 2010 only 3% of the poor managed to achieve these material givings. The conditions for the exercise of these rights were both strict and bureaucratic. What you haven't forgotten is that you're still multiplying administration and bureaucracy. In article 19, you say: “To improve social protection services, the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government can set up a public agency and a foundation. “ Although you have passed a law on limiting the maximum number of officials in this respected parliament, you continue to increase the state administration, which is otherwise the burden of the Serbian citizen tax collectors and which is too overwhelming. The concept of poverty in Serbia has largely been based on passive support for poor citizens and families in recent years. Life standard polls made in 2003 showed that 14% of the population, or millions of people, lived below the line of absolute poverty. Based on this data, then the government created a strategy to reduce poverty. The main goal of this strategy was to split Serbia's absolute poverty by 2010. However, the results are devastating: in 2010 and this year, in 2011, we have more than a million, perhaps, that data nobody knows, poor citizens of Serbia. What is significant and what the polls have found is that poverty and unemployment in Serbia represent among Serbian citizens one of the biggest fears. So 77% of Serbian citizens have a daily fear of losing their jobs and not being poor. We therefore believe that, in addition to the passive measures that you have proposed in this law, measures of active employment policy, training for productive life in the community and the warning of dependence on social services should be introduced more and more, which is not sufficiently achieved by this law. One of the great drawbacks of this law is certainly that in most of this law you move the weight from the service user to the service providers. It is hypocritical, as well as insulting the users of this law, that at a time of serious decline in production and double-digit inflation, the law foresees improving the quality of professional work through continuous training, licensing, accreditation programmes and the introduction of a social protection chamber. What does this mean? Does this mean that so far, professionals and social protection institutions have not met the criteria and standards for providing services in the field of social protection? Does this mean that professionals and social protection institutions were not trained professionally and professionally to achieve social protection objectives in the best interests of the users? Why didn't you solve it much sooner? Why didn't you propose the formation of chambers, licensing and accreditation in amendments to the applicable law much earlier? In the light of the law, you stated that the changes in the law relating to monetary and social assistance would affect an increase in expenditure by about 70% compared to the funds so far needed, i.e. around four billion dinars. You did not specify how much it would cost taxpayers to assess, reward and professional advances of professional workers, which is testified by Article 146 and official ID, Article 139. This member is, I think, a disgrace and a shame for social protection, and I have to read it: “Workers of the Centre for Social Labour have official status and powers that prove official legitimacy. The form and content of the official legislation referred to in Article 1 shall be prescribed by the Minister responsible for Social Protection. “ In this way, Mr. Minister, social protection takes precedence over other actions and discrimination against other citizens. Why doesn't the official ID have drivers, who are daily beaten up, electromonters, who also get beat up when they want to cut off illegal electricity consumers? Then, plumbers, doctors, who are far more threatened, eventually teachers, who are very often threatened by their students. This is the humiliation of Serbia's most vulnerable citizens, and the poorest. Who are the employees of these centers being protected from? Of Serbia's most vulnerable citizens, those who need adequate assistance on time and in the most efficient way. What has so far been a major lack of a valid law, which we thought you have changed in some way, is that you have not eliminated the difficulties that existed in achieving social assistance in this way. We believe that a law that contains real and applicable solutions should be passed, which in any case this bill is not, because at the beginning of your argument you stated that you must, in order for the implementation of this law to be complete, bring in a large number of sublegal acts. We think that in the members of the law, you should have had better regulation, not sublaws. Then, the lack of this law is that you predict decentralisation of social protection. As you know and as you have noted, the experiences of countries in the environment have shown that decentralisation is a complex process and that it cannot be ensured simply by changing the law, but that it takes much more resources, both from the budget and from the local level. The consequences of decentralising cash compensations to poor people in transition countries are negative, which is also confirmed by examples of Romania, Lithuania, Bulgaria, in which the responsibility for paying out social aid has been transferred to local authorities, with limited appropriations, resulting in the adoption of new social protection laws. Mr. Minister, can you answer the citizens of Serbia for how much of the 2011 Republic budget is scheduled to get local self-government by the three grounds you spoke about at the beginning of your presentation and what are these funds, how will they be distributed? You were talking about 122 municipalities they're going to get, but is there going to be even distribution, because many self-governments didn't even have 1% to single out social protection? Do you think the increased amount you mentioned, that 2.7 billion dinars, will be enough to improve the quality of life of recipients of social protection services? Up until now, local social security budgets have estimated about 2%, and many local self-governments have not even singled out these two percentages. In 2010, there were about 765,000 users of various forms of social giving, which is 15% more than in 2009. For over 100,000 families, it's the only way to survive and support their children. Now a little bit about the most endangered. We think they're children. The data is different, and we came up with data that children live on the border of misery and that there are about 120,000 children in Serbia. So every tenth child in Serbia is extremely poor, and every 20 children are on the poverty line. In Serbia 6,200 children use folk cuisine services. That poverty has really affected Serbia shows the growing need for folk cuisines as the form of helping the most vulnerable citizens. You did not foresee this by this law, but you gave local self-government units the opportunity to give citizens other kinds of help, such as folk cuisine, subsidies, in Article 111, which does not mean that local environments will realize it. Then how are the citizens in these most vulnerable places going to live? You have provided in one member that the Centre for Social Work can establish one municipality, and in the following position 3. you suggest that in some situations the Centre for Social Work can be established for more municipalities. This is really totally unacceptable, because we know that some of the municipalities are so dissociative... I mention Zaječar County, where are four municipalities, and Sokobanja is 80 kilometers away from Zaječar; how will the one from Sokobanje come to Zaječar to realise financial welfare or some other kind of material assistance when there is no money to pay the map from Sokobanja to Zaječar and back? Also, it does not end when he goes to Zaječar, it is necessary to collect 101 papers, which you have failed to remove from this, so that these citizens will continue to be damaged as far as receiving social benefits.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50904	Twenty minutes. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course we should welcome the fact that we have before us a social aid law and the fact that this law singles out most of the resources for social assistance users, for a large number of categories that are threatened by our society, that this percentage ranges from 40 to 60, and I see that in the bill, the Ministry claims that we will increase the number of users by about 70% compared to the number of users we have at this point. It is absolutely certain that these people need help at this time when the Serbian transition is completely in the mud, as one of my predecessors said, when reforms are not only seen in economic terms but also in the reform of institutions and overall social reform and when apparently a complete Serb society is falling into growing poverty. We have a fact, unfortunately, that all this is designed in this law and all that is offered today to Serbian citizens can only be used once, or perhaps in the course of this year, that increase may mean some growth of standards, because if we do not have serious economic reforms, and they are not seen in our society, certainly not that amount of social assistance, which is provided probably thanks to the fact that this is an election year, we will not be able to achieve it in some future period. This is the most serious concern of the Serbian Progressive Party, as we still think this law is in the role of a pre-election campaign, pre-election stories. It is not enough to come up with a social aid law only if it is not a permanent, long-term, sustainable financial resource on which the law will be able to rest. What is fundamental when it comes to the problem of poverty is the link between poverty and unemployment. When you look at the situation in Serbia, that in previous years, in fact, since 2008, we have a growing number of unemployed, then you come to the situation that the conclusion is imminent – we will have an increasing number of users, and less and less opportunities to help these people. Today there are over 800,000 people who are unemployed. The trend will continue in 2011. We have a total collapse of private economy. As far as employee employment is concerned, above all, by the government, as it is, and for it we don't have enough money. The height of the salary is really negligible, i.e. embarrassing today in Serbia, given the growth of the consumer basket and the inflation that is daily. We have the lowest salary in Europe. We have a fact, unfortunately, that those who support this society have significantly lower salaries than the state administration, which is an inadmissible haughtiness of the state administration in terms of economy. We have a lot of problems in the field of work, and it seems to me that your ministry in the past few years, since you're a minister, has done almost nothing to ensure that working conditions, minimum wage, minimum wage, are appropriate to the needs of citizens. I don't want to talk about the fact that today we have literally exploiting those who are employed and that in Serbia we don't even know how much time it is. Just on that basis, according to the estimates of some experts in this area, we lose close to 50,000 jobs, only because today you can use employees and work ten, twelve, fourteen, sixteen hours. This all says that, unfortunately, the economic situation, the situation in labour, when it comes to wages and income regularity, affects the social position of all citizens and partially obstructs this law, and the data is that nearly 400,000 employees do not receive regular wages. Your lack of interest in all these problems significantly violates the new law and social protection concept and puts it under question. As far as SNS is concerned, we certainly need to go into serious economic reforms so that this law, as you have devised it, which is on paper progress compared to what we had in the past, can be realized in the next period. To praise, it is certainly your desire to strengthen the institutions of social protection, to strengthen the supervision, which was very problematic in the previous period. I don't think you've cleared up with yourself yet to what extent it should go to decentralisation of social assistance and social protection today in Serbia. I think it's one big problem, probably conceptual, in the ministry itself, to see the desire to transfer some of those obligations to local self-government. I'm afraid, if this idea and this approach prevails in your ministry and in the concept of social protection at all, that we will have major problems in the next period in Serbia, because regional differences in development today in Serbia are too large, which means that social assistance users in different parts of our country will not be in the same position. Only about 2%, as far as social assistance and giving are concerned, today in municipalities, according to some information and information I have, goes into social protection. Most of the time it's a one-time help, most of the time it's helping people with disabilities. Most often, it is politically colored, in the sense that through this one-time social assistance it wants to improve the status of political parties. There's no concept behind it. It's something that can have an impact on the realisation of the law itself. Also, the capacity of institutions today is extremely problematic. We have the fact that social protection institutions are quite politicised and that as such they often cannot meet the needs of users, and the costs themselves of these institutions, compared to the amounts intended for users, are too great. This means that at this point we have a rather irrational social protection system, given the opportunities of this society. When it comes to social protection law, we have reacted to fifteen amendments. We've made sure that some of them fail, as we see them, in the law itself, possibly to be the height of social benefits, which are modest anyway, and you say, according to the possibilities of our society... We should all be together, and you as Minister of Government, to make sure that the possibilities are significantly higher. We've done our best, there are amendments, and in that part we intervene, to expand the circle of people who, under this law, can accomplish some kind of help. We think that's necessary. Such as the law, regardless of all changes in a positive sense, will still not be able to satisfy and significantly improve Serbia's social map today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50906	Eight minutes and fifty seconds used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Before I give the word to the following declared, a notice for the members of the Committee on Transport and Connections and, of course, other interested MPs: a session of the Committee on Transport and Communications will be held today at 1400 hours, on the ground floor one at the House of National Assembly. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, today, after twenty years of full-time, a new law on social protection of citizens of the Republic of Serbia is passed, and at the moment that Serbia, as we heard from the Minister himself, is among the poorest countries in the region, that is, we are very high on this "record", which we should neither be proud of nor honored with it, but we should resist all our strengths and overcome it and that the state of social protection of citizens in need of social care should be resolved as quickly as possible and as possible. However, this law, regardless of what was in the public debate for a year, did not cause the public to be interested, and that is what we really need to be concerned about, or did not initiate that solidarity that should follow the adoption of such a law. Because it's a law that really concerns the largest number of citizens, and every day, unfortunately, a growing number of those who have a need to be taken care of or in any way subject to this law. If we know that only in last year's poverty rate in Serbia has increased by 7%, and it is a worrying number anyway, then we should all seriously imagine, especially the government, which is obliged, as a state, to take care of its citizens, especially those citizens who do not have the opportunity to be taken care of in another way, which is the aim of passing this law. The responsibility of the state at this point is certainly inevitable. However, when we pass this law, we cannot bypass the magical triangle that makes up: the budget, which has to finance this, regardless of whether it is the budget of the Republic or the budget of local self-government, we all know how the budgets are filled; the social, which is the user, and the economy, which should most significantly fill the budget, and it is in Serbia at this point in collapse. The common denominator of that triangle is definitely money. All that needs to solve citizens' problems in social need is money, regardless of the categories, regardless of the rights that are being exercised, to the types of rights. So money is a common denominator that solves all these problems, and it's really insufficient right now. As Parliament Group of New Serbia, we have singled out a few of the problems that we have seen in the law, which we really feel is systematic and we regret that it was no longer spoken of in public, regardless of what is both professional and any other public has spoken about it. He is not perfect, and he will suffer in some time more significant changes and additions, but it is also a step toward solving problems. How society is modernised, unfortunately, also the types of poverty and poverty are modernised. We'd like to draw attention to a few things. First of all, we expect the minister to properly and well assess the necessary money to be paid by this law, as the law provides for increases. We know the state of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and we know why it is in such a state, so we expect that the poorest citizens will not suffer the consequences of their own impoverished and overly modest lives. Then, we expect the rules the minister spoke of to be reached as soon as possible. I don't think that's precise enough by law, but I don't think it's something that's going to be overcome. Therefore, the law will not be applicable unless all these rules are passed as soon as possible, so that it can be implemented. Also, I would draw attention to the need to provide sufficient funds for salaries or to employ the necessary number of professionals who need to serve all needs of citizens in a state of social dependence. I'd like to draw attention to one thing, members of the license, which is not disputed, those are members from 176 to 190. I believe that it was necessary to stress by law that, of course, certain qualifications are needed, they are not controversial, but a certain number of training or listening to a number of professional seminars, etc., so this should be emphasized, that this should certainly be on the employer's burden. They can't bear it with people who need to get a license, because it's a category that can't fund it. Also, like so many so far, I'd like to draw attention to Article 82. That's what we talked about on the board. It's a poor population in rural areas and those famous half a hectares of land or two acres in mountain-mounted areas... Unfortunately, people in rural areas, in rural areas, as we like to say, who come into the social addiction situation are in a big problem and we don't think that this is the most pathetic way, catastrian income, or catastrian possession is not the most adequate way of calculating their needs. They are usually people who at that time have all other accompanying problems (old age, possible diseases, etc.). This model should therefore be replaced and calculated by some other parameters. We expect it to be a very quick subject of some changes and additions, because it is unsustainable. The population in Serbia, especially in rural areas, and I am particularly talking about the old population... We know in what state the Serb village is, we know how hard it is to live on the ground, even when you are in some vital age, let alone if you have so few countries and if you have few countries and many years. Then you really have a big problem, which the state has to take other care of. So, we expect amendments to be accepted in several serious members, either our or our fellow MPs from some other parliamentary groups that have intervened, because we really expect this law to be one of those who will solve the longer-term problems of citizens who are a sensitive category in each respect, whether they are children without parental ageing, whether they are old, powerless or sick persons. Anyway, this is the law concerning the most sensitive group of citizens. Unfortunately, in Serbia, every day there are more and more socialities, which are well solved only in wealthy societies. Serbia is a poor country and must be very responsible and compassionate to treat citizens in need of this type of assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50908	Seven minutes and fifty seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word, to which they are entitled in this part, or during the session? No, I don't. If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing, and with the order of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, the LDP Parliamentary Group, the G17 Plus MP Group, the DSS Group, the ZES Group of MPs, the Prosperity Group, Serbia and the SRS Parliamentary Group. We move to a debate in order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word, in principle the proposal for a social protection law. First reported is MP Petar Petrovic, followed by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50909	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, the Honorable Ladies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, on behalf of the SPS-JS Group, I can say at first that both in principle and in the final version of the text, and we are sure that it will not be changed in much after considering amendments submitted to this law, we will vote in favour of this bill because we believe that this law is one European way that we are approaching social protection regulation in the Republic of Serbia, as regulated in most European countries. I purposely said the word "coming closer" because I cannot say that we will fully equalise ourselves with the way social protection is being done in most highly developed European countries. Not to be in debt, but if for no other reason, then for reasons that are much stronger in economic and economic terms than the Republic of Serbia is at this point. Another reason why we will support this law is that this law finally brings together all reforms that have been implemented in the area of social protection in the Republic of Serbia in one adequate and quality way for the past few years. What makes us particularly happy from the SPS-JS Group is that here, in a different and much more high-quality way, there are some issues that have not been resolved and resolved so far, and that is, for example, the issue of official status in the performance of official work at social work centres. We know that they were very often exposed to various pressures, not to use any other expressions, perhaps physical abuses, etc. When they get official status, it's a question of whether anyone will dare because they haven't exercised one of their rights, and he thinks he has the right to do so, which was the case before. On the other hand, it is also good that people who are in a state of social need are dealt with in a different way and are able to work and are on the labour market records. In co-operation between the social work centres and the labour markets, it is said that in the summer months (and perhaps in some other months when there is a need) they will offer a job, to earn some money so that they can feed their families, etc. Also, in the opinion of this parliamentary group, better quality services are provided to children and other persons with disabilities, especially persons who are distracted in psychophysical development. We think that aid has been provided so far, but one more step ahead should be taken to help these people find their place in society as humanely as possible and to achieve something to feed themselves and their families. There has been a lot of talk here about poverty, by some respected colleagues and colleagues, and about how many persons there are currently in the Republic of Serbia who use the services of the social work centre. I come from Jagodina, which was awarded a medal a few years ago for the best social programme in the Republic of Serbia. I would ask some colleagues, regardless of which group they belong, whether they are opposition or positional, to try to find funds in their local environments, and there are, in a certain way, to help all those in a state of social need. Especially in local self-governments where there are a lot of people on the payroll of local self-government budgets, managers, advisors, assistant presidents; the salary of councilmen, the salary of city council members, the collection of official travel logs and so on... In the smaller, medium or larger local environment, if it were to avoid or reduce the giving on these grounds, there would certainly be plenty of reserves, besides the money obtained from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, to help people in a state of social need. There is a reserve to help people who are in a state of social need and who need help. What I would particularly like to try to draw attention to you from the Ministry, given that you mentioned that in law too, when it comes to those who do not have the right to social assistance because they have land, whether or not a hectare two, I would ask that we be very careful here. There are rural areas with nursing homes that unfortunately have no birth, or children have left their parents, to use that Serbian expression -- in the end, to cope with themselves as they know and know it, and they have gone the way of the white world. These people have several acres of land on them in the hills, which literally isn't worth anything. And to process it, they can't make any money, and if they give it to someone, believe me, and pay for someone in that village to process it, they won't process it because there's no way they can process their own land, because the cost of processing is far higher than the profits made from that land. Therefore, he should be very careful when such persons appear with a request to receive specific assistance so that they can survive without or have not obtained the right to a agricultural pension. There's four or five thousand on the monthly level because, believe me, there's nowhere to earn it. On the other hand, it should also be very careful when it comes to single mothers, i.e. there should be greater co-operation, not only between the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, but also between the Ministry of Justice and other ministries and judicial and other state bodies. Where it is known or can be determined who is the biological father of a child, the state must find a way to justify it; they must find it anywhere on the globe; if it makes a profit, it must separate the money to support that child. Today we often have cases of giving up trying to find such a person – a few attempts fail, an address unknown, etc. And many single mothers, maltenes, were abandoned. And where they're going, but at the welfare center, because they have two or three children; even if they're, unfortunately, unemployed, their only help is the social work centre and local self-government. What is also commendable and what we from the SPS-JS Group support are these new types of transfer of funds from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy towards local self-government, new types of assistance. Whoever read the law knows what it's all about, I wouldn't take the time, as others from my MP group need to discuss it. All in all, I will conclude by saying once again that the SPS-JS Group will support this law in the voting day, because we believe it is much more quality than the existing one and will bring social protection in many ways in the Republic of Serbia closer to developed European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50910	Nine minutes and thirty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's MP Kenan Hajdarevic, followed by the National MP Stojanka Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50911	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP understands the need to pass a new social protection law, but we believe that today's debate is missing, especially in the opening presentation of the minister, the context of the social state of Serbia's citizens today. It's as if we're getting a picture that the social picture of our citizens is something independent of the overall picture of the society we live in today. We must openly say that today's social status of our citizens is disastrous, and this is due to the disastrous political decisions of the policy that dominated Serbia in the 1990s, and after 2000 only the policymakers changed. We can also say that the increase in the number of social assistance users over the last year has been due to the disastrous economic measures of this government. As you said, Mr. Minister, that this may be the result of the global economic crisis, we in the LDP can say that this is also the result of the sale of NIS, because the government donated NIS for 400,000 euros, and today we learn that "Maxie" is sold for almost a billion euros, although "Maxie" has much less sales facilities than NIS has gas stations. It is not enough just to visit Serbia, cry over the fate of citizens, and then return here to Belgrade and not think at all about the political consequences of any decision taken by any political party, or any government, or minister who makes up the government. The Liberal Democratic Party supports, too, the social protection objectives that you have defined by this bill, especially the part that speaks of intergenerational solidarity, the very principle on which LDP has insisted over the last three years, especially when adopting the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, certain ministers, or vice-presidents of the government, when they insist and talk about this intergenerational solidarity after abuse of the Republic of Serbia's budget in some way. How else do we explain the fact that we learn that out of two and a half billion euros, how isolated is it as aid to the PIO Fund, some new vehicles, new "hazard damages", or that a million-and-a-half euros has been purchased a microfilm without a public tender? Is that intergenerational solidarity? The Liberal Democratic Party said in the previous part what are the good parts of this law. I really must repeat them: these are, among other things, an increased range of beneficiaries of social assistance and the possibility that they can finally and at work get material assistance under certain conditions. Here I would just like to point out very quickly that we will be in a situation that a huge number of people aged 50 to 60, who do not have enough years of work to retire, in a year or two will become social cases for their families or for the municipalities in which they live. You have to take care of that in the next period. We also need to commend the introduction of dedicated transfers to the most underdeveloped municipalities, especially because the number of users is increasing year by year, and the budgets of local self-government cannot adequately monitor it. The bad side of this LDP bill, besides the ones we've already talked about, is this. Article 19 allowed some public agencies to be established in the field of units of local self-government or the Republic of Serbia. It is not defined at all in this draft law to deal with these agencies, in which way they will be financed, or what the purpose of these public agencies is, as if this member had just been thrown into the draft of this law. Also, the control system is unclear, in this bill it seems rather chaotic. The spirit of the law is central to the LDP, although also in the light of the law and in the opening presentation of the minister, it speaks of decentralisation. I'll try to explain it on a few examples. Article 10, which speaks of the establishment of social protection institutions, clearly defines who can establish social protection institutions. It says the Social Labour Centre can only be established by a local self-government unit, and only the Republic of Serbia, i.e. an autonomous province, can be established by the Institute for Social Protection and Child and Youth Education. The Liberal Democratic Party asks why, for example, the Social Protection Institute cannot be established for more municipalities or for a particular region in Serbia? It is obvious that there are regions within the territory of the Republic of Serbia that have a specific weight when we talk about this social protection, i.e. the problems of one region are different from some other regions. Especially when it comes to the financing of these social security institutions by the founder. It is also central for us and a provision that says the minister's consent is necessary, i.e. the ministry of appointment of the director of the social work centre. I think it is unnecessary, although the very way of choosing the director of the Centre for Social Labour, as defined by the bill, is acceptable for LDP. The choice is made through a public competition, with the board's opinion, in exactly the way the LDP insists on introducing other public enterprises. It is absolutely unacceptable for us to choose the directors of the social work centre at the municipal level through competitions, while the directors of public enterprises and other institutions are elected according to party membership. On the other hand, we must insist that this principle be included for public enterprises as well. A member who says that the right to financial assistance has persons who have less than one hectare of land for us is indeed unacceptable, that is, it is unacceptable that the cadastrian amount of land, as many persons, or family, owns, determines whether it can be a beneficiary of social assistance or not. Not to get into a situation that we got into maybe a month ago when we found out that people died of hunger and freezing, didn't have social aid just because they had four acres of land. It's unacceptable for us. But this problem of rural households in rural areas cannot be dealt with only by the Ministry of Social Affairs, nor by social work centres. I think that this problem must be dealt with by both those major agencies and institutions dealing with regional development, because it's a systemic problem, a problem that we have to solve very quickly. Also, this may have consequences, Mr. Minister, you are familiar with this problem of displaced persons, i.e. persons from the area of the Pribo municipality who were displaced during the war in BiH, who do not have the status of displaced persons -- cannot return to their property because they are devastated, and land owners are areas above a hectare. Those under these conditions can't be social aid users at all. Article 20 is also a little vague for us. He, among other things, defines a programme to improve social protection. This article is defined who brings forward a programme to improve social protection, but it is not defined for which period and who will then say what the results of this programme are, whether or not the programme is respected, and in what extent. Also, it is defined here that the unit of local self-government, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, allocates funds to finance the programme of improving social protection. I ask the question – is this the obligation of local self-government and the budget of the Republic of Serbia? What's also a little strange for LDP, not to say causing our constant surprise, is that some ministries use different criteria when defining poverty in Serbia. You're talking about one criterion, and then we come and find out, for example. that the Ministry of Energy, when it determines a price increase, that is, when the Government determines an increase in electricity prices, says that those families that spend less than 350 kilowatts per month are poor. I think it is necessary to define a unique methodology that will tell what the poverty line is and how many of us in Serbia have families, or individuals below that poverty line. At the very end, I would like to say that we must not allow you to be remembered, either you, or this government, or any previous government, as the governments that gave the greatest social assistance to the families of the Hague indictees, or that we must work together to make the social picture of our population much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50912	Ten minutes and twenty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a national MP, Stojanka Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50913	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Social Security Act is one of the most important and necessary laws, which should provide a solution to the accumulated problems in our country. In 2005, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a social protection development strategy defining the principles of reform of the social protection system to preserve and improve the lives of marginalised and most endangered categories of population. The global economic crisis, the huge unemployment rate, an enormously large number of poor and socially endangered categories of the population have conditioned the adoption of one such law. The National Employment Service records a growing number of working-age citizens who have not solved the employment issue, while in so-called "Student Employment". Public or folk cuisines are registered by an increasing number of hungry citizens. The aim of this law is to achieve a minimum of material and social security of citizens, to enable each citizen to exercise the right to social protection uninterruptedly, to achieve equal or approximately equal opportunities for all citizens, to preserve the family and improve intergenerational solidarity, to prevent the abuse and discrimination of sick persons with disabilities and poor citizens. The specific objectives of the proposed law are to ensure an existential minimum and to develop a network of services for socially endangered people. In the interest of Serbian citizens, it is for the bill to come into force to address the problems mentioned. This law attaches particular importance to the most vulnerable categories of the population, and these are the sick and disabled. Their inclusion, equal participation in all social activities and education are particularly represented by this bill. I would certainly refer to Article 108, which provides for the conditions under which training of young persons with developmental disorders and persons with disabilities, which can be qualified for certain work based on their psychophysical abilities. In this regard, the state’s absolute assistance is considered to enable people with disabilities under privileged conditions to train and open the door for normal life. Minors and children who possess a more difficult form of illness or disability, according to the solution proposed by the law, can be treated in their own family, in the environment of their parents and loved ones. The separation of children and young people from their family and the natural environment for treatment, as foreseen by earlier legal solutions, has been avoided by this bill, which I consider to be a very positive shift in the process of caring for persons with disabilities. It is clear that each person has the best communication with his family, that he feels best in his own home, and that the outcome of the treatment will be better if it takes place in the natural environment of a child with a disease. I would also like to point out that, in addition to this issue which the proposed law supports, a parent-care institute should be introduced. Their status would be closely linked to the status of the child they care about. They would have the right to special fees and certain benefits, because it is absolutely clear that, due to the constant concern of a sick child, they would not be able to carry out their activities that provide them with existence, they would not be able to do so, which would economically endanger the family of a disabled child. The legislator envisioned various types of material support for the most vulnerable populations in Serbia. These are: financial social assistance, assistance and care allowances for another person, training assistance for work, one-time cash assistance, aid in nature, as well as other types of material support. However, I believe that these kinds of aid should not be conditioned so-called. the landcensus referred to in Article 82(2). The reason for removing this condition lies in the fact that in passive and extremely poor areas the value of the country is devalued. The country's quality is not at an envious level, and there is no one in the nursing homes to process the country, because young people had to look for their happiness in large cities because of the extremely bad policies of centralisation. The problem is particularly represented in southern Serbia and especially in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, where, according to statistics, the largest number of socially endangered and poor households, as well as most of the Serb and non-Albanian population that has been displaced; more than 230,000 people were expelled from their properties in 1999 and are unable to process them, and on catastrian papers they are de facto, on paper, owners. That means those faces won't be able to get help based on this criterion. I sincerely hope that the minister will have understanding, given that he was in one period dealing with politics towards Kosovo and Metohija and that he understands the situation perfectly. Therefore, the condition of aid by the amount of land held in possession is unsustainable and must be removed from the proposal for a social protection law. As regards the employment of the most vulnerable categories of the population, the legislator provided for mechanisms to meet these persons, which directly condition the improvement of their economic situation and leads to a reduction in the poverty rate. However, the problem of employment of persons with disabilities in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija remains current because economic operators operating in the area of the province are not included in the register of the Agency for Business Registers of the Republic of Serbia, and they do not operate according to Serbia's laws. I am aware that Kosovo institutions do not recognise the privileged status of people with disabilities and that there is a serious obstacle for these persons on the ground of Kosovo and Metohija to establish a working relationship. I believe that we must face this problem most seriously and help these people to fall under the legislative regime of the Republic of Serbia, under which, according to this law, we would be privileged and close and quality co-operation between the Centre for Social Labour and the organisation responsible for employment would guarantee greater representation in the process of actively seeking work and intensive intervention on behalf of these persons. Generally, I find the proposed law of quality. He followed the needs of people with disabilities and socially endangered and gave quality solutions to help these people and to at least to bring their problems to a standstill. It must be acknowledged that the matter of social protection is the most sensitive, because it is the most difficult for those who have a problem to meet. The legislator has largely offered solutions, which, with good implementation, hopefully, will be effective. As my colleague Gordana Rajkov said, the G17 Group of MPs will vote for this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50914	Eight minutes and thirty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Before I set a break and finish the morning part of our session, on the basis of Article 90(2) and Article 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today after 1800 hours, but not after the end of the work on the agenda that is under way, or the proposal for a social protection law, as well as in case our work in the afternoon ends before 1800 hours at that time will be completed and the working day will be completed. I'm setting a break. The work continues at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 15/05]] We continue to work in the afternoon part of the session in order of the MPs and according to the application for a word in the general search of the proposal for a social protection law. The first registered speaker in the afternoon part, MP Nikola Lazic, followed by National MP Natasa Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50916	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we will all agree that the right to social protection is a fundamental human right, one of the basic flows of civilization, and therefore cannot be seen as an isolated segment of society. Since it is one of the pillars of society, it can therefore be measured how mature one society is and how vital one society is. Social protection must not only represent an individual’s relationship, but must also represent a degree of concern for society in general. Social protection depends specifically on political will, on the one hand, and real and objective opportunities, on the other. The lack of at least one of these preconditions can define this area as inefficient or not well-organised to adequately respond to the needs of society. The desired effect of this law is to expand the social security database by 39%, which according to some data presented in the public would practically mean an increase in the number of families receiving social protection from around 70,000 to 100,000. Now, of course, the question arises whether it will be possible, feasible and whether it will be enough to monitor the whole needs of society. We all know that the growing trend of poverty is currently rapid, and we are all aware that the problem of poverty cannot be solved in the long term by all being involved in receiving social assistance, but by providing work for a large number of people, and this is practically impossible without the start of the economy, the creation of new jobs, the strengthening of exports, etc. I think that the general problem, therefore, is not only the social protection sector, but also the health sector and many other sectors in our society, that prevention is ignored or under-respected. The social protection system must not be reduced to a kind of charity, but there must be a proactive approach, which will deal with the cause rather than just the consequences of certain problems. For example, the law speaks of housing in another family, homes, etc., and in my opinion, it is insufficient to deal with the biological family itself as a place where a good part of the problem could be effectively solved. The bill also speaks of decentralisation of social protection, i.e. decentralisation of social services. This in itself is not a rusty intensities, but it is asked how is it thought that local self-government provides enough resources from the state to function normally in the social protection system when the state is unable to transfer the basic transfer funds to local self-government, which is normally due under the Law on Local Self-Government? Also, the process of decentralisation of social protection needs to be carefully weighd, given the region's experience. In some transition countries, decentralisation of social protection has been uncritically approached, which has led to the collapse of these systems. Finally, the process of building appropriate capacities cannot be completed overnight, it is a demanding process, long term. We all know that we have large regional proportions and differences, so in this context the question could be asked how to level the standard of social protection services throughout Serbia. The bill also treats workers who receive social protection differently. The system of protection that provides for job security for working people in principle is a good idea, but I think there is a serious and projective approach missing, because how do you expect the state to provide and offer adequate work to these people when it has not been able to prevent 400,000 people from losing their jobs in the last three years? Will there be enough quality requalification programs? That's also one of the questions you should consider. It also raises the issue of a vague relationship between state and private service providers, especially their financing. The way the social work centre's role is set leaves room for a project prescribed by the social work centre (and prescribed by certain conditions) by the people who are employed at the centre, to create an NGO and actually implement the project themselves which they have drawn up and take certain means to do so. In addition, how is the social protection system expected to work effectively when employees in this area have been pointing to poor working conditions and announcing a strike for weeks? The objectively, the poverty of citizens over the last three years and the increase in the number of people gravitating towards the poverty line has shown that this area requires not only an adequate legal response, but also a number of essential measures to face this challenge. The illustrations for the sake of unemployment are about 26%, 400,000 people lost their jobs in the last three years, close to a million people gravitating towards the poverty line. The level of frustration of citizens is logically enhanced, as their expectations have been fueled by various unrealistic promises to start up the economy, to open up a large number of jobs, to certain amounts of money for free actions that have been distributed to citizens, to grow standards, etc. It is also worth mentioning that 2008 was the first since 2000 to record poverty growth, unlike in previous 2007 in which the number of poor was practically halved compared to 2002. I think it's important to say that it's very sad that over 60% of people with disabilities live below the poverty line, but that it's equally sad and that the most endangered age group in terms of poverty are children up to 13 years old. In conclusion, I think it's important to say that although this government has defined itself as socially responsible, it actually fell on that test, probably more than on anything else. It's huge, with an increased administration, and I don't think a solution to the problem will be found in the merger and reduction of the number of ministries, because the administration will remain, a government that doesn't solve, but generates difficulties. I don't think that social policy must be managed and can't be brought to the attention of one man, but there has to be one systemic response from the state, multi-sectoralally. I'm afraid the problems won't solve a few shows of empathy, where socially endangered people, who wear oranges, etc. I think that improving the social policy course requires a new government and that this legislative proposal, regardless of its positive shift, is not enough to solve the accumulated problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50917	It's been used eight minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Vukkovic, followed by a national envoy, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50918	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Social Protection Act would be an extremely important law and would deserve our full attention even if we did not live today in Serbia, as well as in this region where the economic crisis has been taking on more and more wave every day and, of course, it is shown that through the decline of living standards and the rise in unemployment and all other consequences of the economic crisis. Social protection is, of course, an expression of social solidarity with those who are not able, for various reasons, to secure their own living needs, which are unable to overcome all social and economic difficulties on their own because of poverty, due to diseases, due to various aspects of deprivation, because of the inability to cross certain borders, some restrictions given to them at birth, due to the initial weaker chances. Regardless of the fact that life in Serbia is not easy for many and regardless of how thin it is and may seem to some that there is a lack of precise limit between those who need social protection and those who are poor, I think they are happy people in Serbia who are not forced to use social protection services. This means that, in some ways, by their work, they are limited, yet they can satisfy even the basic needs of life. It's really deep poverty, it's invisible, it's a matter of social protection. You have a situation that essentially poor people actually are and feel deeply socially excluded. Only some drastic cases manage to come to the public's attention, and we're able to see it in the media. The poorest one, the most endangered one speaks of this law. That's why the vast majority of citizens don't really know how the social protection system works. Anyone who had any way of informing themselves about it had the opportunity to see one, I have to expire here, a great commitment of different distributors in the social protection system. These are people who do an extremely dedicated job, a job that is not easy, and seek to decide on human fates, children's fates prevent decision-making by any kind of automation, but to really apply the principle that is dedicated to the individual and that enables a solution to be found. I think it's something that's very important that we point out when we talk about the social protection system law. We are a society where praises and recognitions to those who do important social affairs are unremarked. This law was being prepared, I think, for the last ten years. If you'll excuse me, my opinion is that the first programmes to be launched with the poverty reduction strategy from the last social innovation fund, through mostly donor programmes, through programmes supported through the EU and other donor programmes, have actually represented some kind of pilot programme that identifies possible solutions and verifies the fact of these solutions in practice. I think a good part of these results that happened through these pilot programmes and through the work on individual strategies is actually incorporated into this law. The minister listed some of them. I think it's extremely important that out of the 2,000 children who were in the home accommodations of 1,500 of them, if I've interpreted correctly, they actually found accommodation in foster families, which is certainly better and more in the interests of children. What's good in this law, I'm talking about the law in principle, and that's why I want to point out right now, is that this bill is an extremely coherent application of different strategies recently adopted in Serbia, starting from the poverty reduction strategy to the National Youth Strategy, etc. I think it is very important that this law is incorporated into some social inclusion programme that it also implements and a social inclusion team in the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. What is also important and what is visible through all the principles applied in this bill are also the principle of family protection, the principle of intergenerational solidarity and the principle of protection against discrimination. This is essentially one principle which, in this law and in the application of all measures and rules in the domain of social protection, must be found in full application, because people who are poor, who are deprived, who cannot enjoy some of their fundamental rights and are very often victims of different forms of discrimination, which further makes their position difficult. It is also good that a large number of actors involved in the social protection process and who could be additionally involved took part in this law. I mean, mostly non-governmental associations and all the other actors. I think the good solutions offered by this law are in that sense. It is this width of the public debate and its duration and a large number of actors involved that is a very good example of how important system laws can be prepared. What are the most important new solutions for this law? It is certain that our citizens are most interested in this section of material support. I think it is very important to stress that, regardless of the large increase in the number of users of the social protection programme that is expected, this year, they will succeed in maintaining not only social protection at the level at which it has been so far, but also with a certain increase that is apparent that through a different definition of the basis and all the increases provided for by the unemployment of the person, the person who is supported or on the basis of whether you are a single parent, etc. Of course, it concerns the fact that the number of social security users will increase by 50 or 60%, as is said here, but on the other hand, I think that the possibility that these requests are still being answered is in favour of the budget adopted this year being particularly socially responsible. Because what is a priority is that you try, as a state and a society, to satisfy at least the minimum needs of society members, regardless of what makes us neither satisfied, nor do I think it should be an expression of any satisfaction when we talk about the standard of living of these people. What is important about some of the different solutions that this law provides in relation to the previous system is, first of all, a daily service in the community, which will take place at the level of local self-government. It is something that needs in a decentralised way to respond to the needs of specific user groups. I think the support service for independent life is of particular importance to some groups of users, such as persons with special needs, single children without parental ageing, etc. I think predicting broad support and cooperation in the provision of services, among other things, inclusion of associations of entrepreneurs, businesses, something that needs to give an additional quality, a kind of individualisation of the program. I think it is crucial today that one of the main characteristics and the European social model is that as many social protection programmes are individualised. In order to achieve this, decentralisation is necessary as a principle as necessary, a principle that meets the plan for the individualisation of social protection in order to meet the real needs of users, given the environment in which they live. There were a lot of words here about whether an individual is responsible for his situation, whether the individual is responsible or responsible for the state. I think we need to be very careful when we talk about this thing. It is certain that each individual has a responsibility to care for meeting the basic needs and needs of life that he is obliged to endure. I don't think we can deny it, but it doesn't exclude that both state and society are at the same time responsible for the state of the community, if I may say so, in which we live. Emphasis of this responsibility is understood as the need for individuals to actively include, to the extent possible, in view of all their characteristics and opportunities, in defining programmes and social protection services, as well as the need to overcome the limitations they face. In this respect, I also understand the provision of a Article 80 whereby the Centre for Social Work can conclude an agreement with the user on the active overcoming of its adverse social situation. I think different strategies and different programmes speak precisely in favour of this, therefore, the need to strengthen the responsibility and involvement of users of the social protection programme. Finally, look, the European Commission has proposed that 2012 be, among other things, the years of active ageing, because it is understood that you need different generations in a different way to activate, in order to meet their life needs as well as possible. In modern society, which rests on the principle of solidarity, both states and all social actors need much more, and we as social Democrats, to advocate that the principle of equal opportunities for the personal achievement of each individual in society is applied as well as possible. In this sense, I think the social protection law is one significant step forward and I urge you to vote in the largest possible number for this law. I think it is extremely important that we, as MPs, be extremely active and in the phase of the application of this law and, through the application of this law, show, indeed, that we represent the citizens who chose us. I am taking this opportunity to remind myself that 2011 is the first year in which our government will submit to the Council of Europe a report on the application of the revised European Social Charter. In some parts of its reasoning, this law calls for provisions of the revised European Social Charter. I believe that the submission of this annual report on the application of the Charter will be an opportunity to discuss how we started to apply this law and to what extent there is a correlation between the report on the application of the European Social Charter and this law reforming the social protection system in Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50919	Eleven minutes and forty-five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50920	Finally, after years of experimenting with the social protection system, as a result of obviously many compromises and the conflict of interest between the state, NGOs, representatives of different European organisations, real experts, callers from this area, the resolution ministry finally proposed a new social protection law. I'm afraid that after the collapse and decommissioning of many systems, such as economic, health, education, justice, the social system seems to have come together. I'd like to make a mistake, but I'm going to make the assessments that come out of the proposal for the text you've brought us. Some will be happy, and some are reluctant to remember that this socially responsible government, or government that runs a socially responsible policy, has in fact forgotten that social justice implies that every man who is able to work should be given adequate employment, i.e. that it is a fundamental obligation for the state to create conditions for employment for all who want and can work. It's a negligible number of people who don't want to work and have them in every society. So, the socially responsible state and government are the ones who took over the guarantee to ensure existential conditions for their citizens. Are we such a state, with a million unemployed, who have no chance of getting hired, with strikes, with everything that happens as a result of such a condition, with an army of homeless people, with overbooked shelters, for both children and for young people and adults? It's hard to talk about any kind of and least social justice. I don't think there can be a word about the socially responsible government. As a mother, as a woman, as someone who has lived in a family household for twenty years with their husband's parents and as someone who advocates traditional values and feels that catering should not find space everywhere, I ask you, as representatives of the government, are you aware of how important it is to lead a policy of reconciliation of working and family life? Is it necessary in Serbia for the whole life to be devoted to work, and for children, for education, for schooling, for learning, for saving food, for maintaining hygiene in the house to be left to cater for families? As a mother and wife, I ask – how can we teach children tolerance in relation to others and not teach them patience in the family according to different generations, if in crisis conditions many of these left out of the house, catering jobs could be done, with pleasure and respect, grandparents and grandparents for their young, for example, married couples and their grandchildren? Or, in the glory of modernity, we will introduce, as in Article 33 here, "the case manager", failed and rejected in Europe the Australian experience, which you have already applied with the labour rule, so that professional clubs are assessed by unacceptable practice, and now you are establishing it here as a rule? Will we, for the love of modernity, lead to individual freedom above all else and to reject the well-inherited assets of the social state, social institutions completely? I don't think you've taken enough care of that. I remind you that in time, this system, which would have to rest on the principles of justice, equality, respect for diversity, human rights, dignity in all life frames, had to provide the same system of meeting the needs of life both in urban and rural areas. Social protection should include not only social security and a declared desire to achieve this, but also different social measures, including marginalised groups. Should the current Social Protection Act have been amended? Yes, it is. They have changed since the adoption of the text of the law to this day and society organisations, and conditions in the economy, various social and protection needs, various socio-political conditions; and many other reasons lead to the need to change the law. Should it lead to the collapse of the social protection system and, by reputation of that – privatize everything, leave people without a job, find an alternative for them? Then we say, "We have reforms," and we are at the beginning with this number of employees. Can this area endure this kind of reform? I'm not sure. The mention and appeal to EU standards in this area is, I'm afraid, somewhat tasteless. There are no standards in the EU in this area, but it is the obligation of every country to regulate its legislation so that it is, I quote, based on the unification of all potentials and the engagement of large financial resources to create a more stable, fairer, safer place for life in each and every country. The good legal solutions that existed and the fruit of long-term application have now proved to be of great quality, in practice checked; they have envied us both a much more developed and economically powerful state than our own. You thought she couldn't find a place in this law. Has respect for the good experiences of countries in the environment that were once part of the single state, Slovenia, Croatia, Montenegro not been enough for you to respect them in developing a social protection system and we retain a good legacy in ensuring the social security of citizens? Let me remind you... My longtime parliamentary counterpart, Lucic, probably recalls the poverty reduction strategy promoted and signed by late Prime Minister Djindjic by hand. I will remind you that this strategy is written – the social protection system is basically good and modern, only needs to be financially supported and strengthened. Was the subsequent adoption of laws, regulations and texts based on this strategy? In 2003, it was recognised that social protection institutions for the housing of children and youth were well-established, well-conceived, but that because of their long-term failure to invest in the investment maintenance of these institutions were quite abandoned and ruined. Instead of being restored and upgraded by modern technical and didactic means, we have actually abandoned the professional training of people in these institutions. Then, although we adopted such a strategy to combat poverty, we said that these institutions are a good setup, but abandoned, it happened that the launch of a project to transform child and youth housing institutions was done in such a way that no recommendations and guidelines of the poverty reduction strategy were followed. You can testify best. In a magical way, experts, or experts, but under the circumstances, who were engaged in this project, who had never dealt with issues of children without parental ageing, which had not been professionally achieved anywhere, allowed themselves (or we, or you who were the government), to launch a famous result with the abundant financial fees and donations of the Kingdom of Norway – the abolition of homes for children without parental ageing. That's not good. That shouldn't have been the case. To the general astonishment of the professional public, the famous model of Eastern countries has been affirmed, which before they were admitted to EU membership, transformed their institutions for the accommodation of children and youth, and children without parental ageing ended up on the streets and, as terrible as it sounds, by sewers. In parallel, with the involvement of NGOs, projects "Children of the Street" have been developed, sounds already known and seen, and unfortunately it has also been contained in the new social protection law. In a good number of countries there is a trend that you have not, unfortunately, accepted in this law (there are also resolutions advocated by the Council of Europe) – that homes are founded and created without parental ageing, but small accommodation capacity, with 40-50 users, in principle homes - families, with well-educated, educated and trained human resources. In this new bill, you didn't recognize it as an opportunity to develop it. Mr. Minister, is it possible for you to consider it a good practice that today little children without parental ageing can, conditionally speaking, be placed only in foster care, only not to be placed in homes, which were once the pride of this country, a practice that others had taken over? The decommissioning and decommissioning of the Centre for Social Work began before the text of this law was drawn up, you well know, by setting up party personnel, unprofessional people, and very often, not always, and those who did not have any human resources or other conditions to deal with the work. You forgot the basic thing: for someone to be something, as a function, he must first of all be someone, i.e. must be achieved in a professional or any other area. Why is that? Is it possible to deny the truth that social work centres were rarely the last hope that numerous individuals without families would not go the way we do not want anyone in this society to go? One experienced social worker, who spent his entire century in a social protection system, wrote in time: adapt to modern professional and methodological needs, the needs of users and objective opportunities of society, accept everything that others have done more and better than we have, but do not deny the rich, successful and decades-long confirmed effectiveness of our social protection system. You didn't stick with this. But two members of the law are mandatory members of the law, any one of which you propose, which is: one, to propose the establishment of an agency, which is pointless, or the foundation in this law, and the day the law comes into force. You didn't deserve a transitional grade because this isn't a law that helps social protection, and we can't, unfortunately, vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50921	Fourteen minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP Sasa Dujovic, followed by a national MP, Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50922	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable ministers, we have finally welcomed the day to adopt the Social Protection Act and forget about one retrograde law of 1991, which, through various amendments and additions, tried to improve in the previous period, but somehow time and events that met each other simply did not allow it to happen. Of course, it is very important to highlight the compliance of this law with the social protection strategy adopted in 2005. It is also very important to point out that this law is a sound basis for the adoption of sublegal acts, which will be much more detailed and qualityd of all other materials that simply cannot be part of all that this law provides. Progress in social protection is something that should be truly a great pride of this law. I believe this law can lead to progress in social protection for all citizens of our Serbia. This bill respects European practice, in line with all the strategies brought by EU countries, above all, from the area of social protection. Of course, we wouldn't be who we are if we didn't have any regrets, so in line with that, we simply predicted for some things to improve them and we invested a number of amendments on some members of this law. This is what my colleague Miletic Mihajlovic will explain in the day when details are discussed why we believe they might be accepted. One of the key amendments refers to a subordinated position, relative to foster families, families with biological children with disabilities, i.e. persons with special needs. I'd like to point that out in particular. There were a lot of words here about the increased number of users of material protection, i.e. Social protection, which can create the wrong picture that society is in some problem, which is why the number of social protection users has increased. But the bottom line is that the whole law's idea was to involve as many citizens as possible in the social protection process; when we're already covered by all of this that we're covered by, the hard life, the global crisis, which hasn't passed Serbia, to simply allow our fellow citizens to have some kind of protection, the better, anyway. Helping people with disabilities, as well as their families, this law is well resolved and is part of the whole strategy related to this problem. We think that's good. I would point out the special possibility of another type of assistance that is regulated by Article 111 of this Law, which opens up space for all local elected officials to through certain things... I will quote that member, he says, "The local self-government unit can predict other kinds of material help for citizens in its territory. “ Absolutely a positive thing, provided by law, that local budgets pay a little silence and other giving, and more to citizens, even if the basics have spread through one of these laws. Our responsibility, as Parliament, towards the citizens is indeed great. This proposal is an acceptable solution. I expect and call on all MPs' clubs, I call on all MPs to support as much of this law as possible and show social responsibility, this time without party or concrete party tasks, but to do all of this in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. I would point out that the SPS-JS MPs' club will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50923	Four minutes and thirty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, followed by a folk letter from Jelena Travar Miljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before discussing this proposal for a public law, an atmosphere similar to what it was before the 2010 budget rebalancing debate. To find an excuse to increase the deficit, it was then repeatedly said to be done in order to provide the funds needed for the social care of citizens. Now that the Social Protection Act is on the agenda, it is noticeable that there is too much emphasis on increasing the number of users and higher amounts of social assistance, as well as on reducing the number of poor people. We're not surprised by the overemphasis, because this is a pre-election and perhaps an election year. On the other hand, poverty has been identified as the biggest problem in Serbia. I will talk about the subject of poverty and the concrete solutions contained in this bill when it comes to the order of the members of the law relating to this matter. Given that the area of social protection is an extremely broad area, of vital importance for citizens, the SRS parliamentary club has paid a lot of attention to this bill. I'm going to go ahead, because I want to point out some important things and a few members of this bill. First, one major irregularity in the bill is contained in Article 19. It provides for the possibility of setting up public agencies to improve social protection services. If you don't improve social security services by setting up an agency, you won't do anything. I say this in this tone because it is well known how the agencies in Serbia operate – an agency is invented only to exist, to allocate funds from the budget, to work there, to receive salaries higher than in other bodies, and the agency's work is doubled compared to the known state authorities. In the Serbian Radical Party, we believe that in the area of social protection, in no case should we artificially invent a new budget user who will spend money, but look to save every dinar, which will go to the right address, for those who need social protection the most. It is only enough to make proper use of existing capacities; if there is a need for expert staff, if less workers are employed in some areas of social protection than is necessary, it is not a problem, to employ professional staff, but rather to organise existing staff. In any case, don't start the agencies, even though you've provided for the law that you can start them. This will save you money that you will be able to direct social security users who need it. If you want to keep more money for social protection, don't waste it on the agencies, as some others waste on too many of these para-state authorities and on the high wages of their executives. We also cannot agree with the idea that an accreditation committee is being educated as one of the entities in the accreditation process. The legislator's intention is to make it a special task force. We are convinced that the Ministry of Social Protection and the Republic Social Protection Institute are well equipped and that there are professional people who can carry out the accreditation process properly. It is therefore unnecessary for the establishment of a committee, since the employees of professionals can, within their working hours, do these jobs and receive wages. It's a great way to save another dollar, which will be able to direct users of social protection. In order not to make it appear that opposition representatives are criticising more than representatives of the government, I will say that certain provisions of the law provide a legal framework and that, if there are opportunities to implement them, they can have positive effects on social security users. When I say this, I mean the provisions relating to cross-sectoral co-operation, because so far there have been a lot of problems. I also think of Article 50, which provides a framework for relatives who provide family accommodation services to have a foster home, in terms of the law governing family relations. It is good to pay attention to the services of urgent intervention and work centres that contribute to improving working skills and employment of disabled persons. What I would point out as opposed to some positive things are the provisions of Article 54. The proposal for home accommodation laws is defined in Section 2 that the home for the accommodation of adults and older persons cannot have a capacity greater than 100 users, i.e. a home for the accommodation of children and young people cannot have a capacity greater than 50 users. These restrictions are not good, because the needs for this kind of social protection are high. As for older people, the problem that can arise as a result of this legal solution is that more people interested in this kind of social protection will remain deprived, especially in large cities, where there are more people and where there is mostly only one such institution. When it is filled in as determined by law, due to respect for the law, it must not receive any more persons. The data suggests that the needs for this accommodation are double the capacity available in state homes and that up to one year is waiting for accommodation. The data that is being passed, that capacity fill is about 80%, refers to all homes in total, both private and state. Generally, such institutions were previously established by the Republic of Serbia or local self-government units. Since 2004, there have been private homes for the elderly in Serbia. According to official data, I think of Serbia, without data for Vojvodina, there are 28 private homes that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has granted work permits and quality of services, where it guarantees. They are all small capacities, from 20 to 30 users, and only one has 65 users' capacity, while 25 homes have a labour ban. However, accommodation prices in private homes are extremely high and range from 400 to 1000 euros. So, now you're legally prescribing that a home for the elderly can receive a maximum of 100 users, and the site of this same ministry defines the conditions for the establishment and start of a private home for the elderly. All those standards prescribed relate to the capacity of 250 users. Let me just point out that the capacity of home on Bezian hair is much higher. My question would be – does this mean that after the adoption of this law, a large number of users will have to leave this home and seek accommodation in private homes? Otherwise, since 1972, when this home was built, its capacities have always been filled. What's this about? In this problem, which is getting more and more pronounced, someone saw a great chance of doing business, under the auspices of the state. The law will determine that one institution can receive up to 100 users and no one will be allowed to receive people through the prescribed number. On the other hand, as the provider of this service, someone who is licensed to do so may come forward and the state will touch for the accommodation of old persons in private homes. This isn't a bad thing. The housing for the elderly is a big problem for our society, which is among the ten oldest in the world. The results of the last census showed that the population in 102 municipalities, of 161, was classified in the category of deep demographic age, and even in 38 municipalities reached the last, seventh stage of demographic age. This means that the population of 85% of municipalities is demographically old. In this group of municipalities, the oldest municipalities of Književci, Razanj, Rekovac, Babušnica, Gajin Han, Crna Trava stand out. In these municipalities, the proportion of over 60 years of age is between two and three times the number of young and 20 years old. If someone doesn't think that the SRS is against housekeeping in private property, we're not against it and we're not against the state's donations, but we're against the fact that some state-owned home has more than 100 seats, and that it only has to keep a hundred users, and that the rest of us have to leave home. These institutions, if they want to comply with the law, will have to lower their capacity to a maximum of 100 users. Otherwise, he'll put himself in a position to be punished, and of course, no one will allow himself, no matter how much humanity he has in him. A large number of pensioners have small pensions, and many old faces do not have any income. Does this mean that from now on, only these old people will be able to settle into state homes and that those who have so many pensions are destined to go to private homes with a grant from the state? The law further lays down in Article 64 that in the event of a need for social protection services and cannot provide them with the necessary scope of the institution established by the Republic of Serbia or local self-government units, the services are supplied by the social security service provider that is licensed for that purpose through the procurement procedure. The client of this service is the ministry responsible for social protection or local self-government units, also responsible for social protection. When we read these provisions, it could be said that it is a good thing that such a thing is incorporated into the law, however, when we know what the area of public procurement is in Serbia, then we are free to say – nothing new. Serbia has a Law on Public Procurement, which unfortunately serves mainly to violate itself. I'm not saying anything by heart, it's all justified. Two reports by the state auditor, for 2008 and 2009, showed that the state and that it violates the laws it adopts. How can Serbian citizens believe in improving social protection services? How do they believe that, in the case of nursing homes, there will be no irregularities in public procurement procedures when the 2008 report recorded the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as having irregularities precisely in the area of public procurement? To remind ourselves that the contract on maintenance of equipment with the company "Information" violated the Public Procurement Act, because it also carried out the purchase of parts of consumer material, and was only related to equipment. Also, the maximum agreed amount of 1.3 million dinars has increased without annexes to 1.9 million. There are some other contracts that have been extended for another three months, the collection of some invoices that were paid twice, and the ministry did not ask for a refund. The law was also injured in the conclusion of a contract with Onora, since there was no public procurement procedure. For contracts by the Ministry of Labour with E-info companies from Banja Luka and Media Trade in Belgrade, there is no evidence that services have been performed at all. So several contracts were signed, and for the August 2008 contract, which refers to the maintenance of application software, the State Auditing Institution said they could not make sure the software was operational, and the price is 350,000 dinars per month. They asked for different excuses – that there were errors in the book, that these irregularities were inherited from the predecessors and the like. However, the revision of the 2009 final budget bill by the budget user, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, again shows significant irregularities at the disposal of the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia. We could say something about that revision for 2009. The State Auditor found at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy that the introduction of an information system in the field of martial law, i.e. the establishment of a single register of users and a payment system for the needs of the fighting and disability sector, was not completed. The application software for the payment of child and parental allowances shall not cover and include all municipal childcare services. It was also found that the Ministry could not conclude contracts for the work of persons performing operations from the Ministry's section, which were renewed or lasted more than eight months in continuity at the end of the month, amounting to 10,184,000 dinars, or failed to comply with Article 199. The labour law. The funding for the financing of the project "Modernisation and Integration of the Labour Inspection System in the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the International Labour and EU Standards and Practices" paid out for other professional services of 4.179.000 dinars. According to this project, 16 people who have already been employed and employed elsewhere have been hired. The State Auditor found that the Ministry could not conclude the abovementioned contracts with persons for the performance of transactions that are identical to or very similar to those of the Ministry's section of the Office of 4.179, or did not act in accordance with Article 199. The labour law. Thus, some responsible ones applied to the laws they passed. Now someone will try to find an excuse, they'll say, none of them are found guilty in court, but it's in the domain of our judiciary. I would like to express one more major objection to this bill, in fact, the opinion of the SRS on Article 88(2). We believe this is a discriminatory provision. Something like this is inadmissible to build into the law. Our parliamentary club has tabled an amendment to prevent the bill from being adopted in the form in which it was written. In fact, the legislator predicted that a family with more than six members had the right to financial welfare for six members. The Serbian Radical Party will never agree with such proposals, as this is how citizens are placed in an unequal position. The terrible thing is that an increasing number of people in employment have been forced to become a beneficiary of social protection. In this way, the effects of the poor economic crisis are being overrun in the sphere of social policy. If most of the working population could work much more space, i.e. money left for certain social protection services of persons whose needs for social protection are more pronounced. Now, there's too many poor and he's, uh, getting a chance to see, he's getting drastically bigger. To many families, some kind of social giving is the only reception. That's why our view is that an unfair member of attitude 882, who discriminates against the seventh, eighth, and every next member of the family. The equality of all citizens is what must be respected always, in front of every law. I want to take this opportunity and put this on what I started talking about yesterday. The SRS Parliament Club has proposed to the National Assembly that discriminatory provisions be made towards children of the ID, that amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for families with children be granted to children and parental allowances for all live births in the family, not only for the first four children. We believe that even a child born the last must have the right as first. We do not recognise the World Health Organization's position that adequate psychophysical development is possible only in families with up to four children. Yesterday, our proposal was rejected by the National Assembly, allegedly due to a discrepancy with the Rules of Procedure, and this discrepancies is reflected in the fact that we did not specify whether the proposals were in line with EU legislation or not. We also believe that all family members, however many of them in the family, if the family meets the conditions that they receive financial social assistance, should be covered by this assistance. It is not impossible to make a different redistribution; so much resources as is provided for social protection to be distributed to all those who meet the prescribed conditions equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50925	Thank you. Judita Popovic is not here. The word is from the People's Messenger Jelena Travar.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50926	Thank you. I think that today we are talking about a very sensitive topic and there is no need to politicise anything. It is very good that we decentralised the social protection system and concreteise certain measures and activities, of course with the fact that the law best shows its effects when it starts to apply. I think it's an extremely good thing that you can bring down certain powers to a regional or local level, because no one can know more about problems than people who live in a certain space. Of course, I'd point to a few aspects when we're talking about the social protection law. Due to value system disorders, economic changes, unfavourable demographic movements within which our villages are unfortunately empty, extinct, we are certainly coming to a disrupted social balance of our society. The threat of children, powerless and old people is increasingly evident due to reduced opportunities for family and society to achieve their protective role. The social protection area is aimed at improving the social status of citizens on a personal, family and wider social plan. Of course, caring for people's independence and ability to help themselves, by strengthening social cohesion, is exactly what the social protection law needs to deal with. In this regard, it is of paramount importance that we discuss today the proposal for a social protection law. I would remind you that the Social Security and Social Security Act was originally adopted in 1991, and the last changes suffered in 2006. What we all know is that this bill should primarily respond to the needs of citizens in the emerging circumstances and support vulnerable and marginalised individuals and groups, who need organised assistance from the state and community. I think it is very important to stress that the community and society should be equally responsible for all their members. It is also necessary to support citizens who are unable to participate in economic activities to ensure their existence. As stated in the bill itself, the objectives of social protection are: achieving, i.e. maintaining the minimum material security and independence of individuals and families in meeting the needs of life; ensuring the availability of services; creating equal opportunities for independent life and promoting social inclusion; preserving and improving family relations, as well as improving family and intergenerational solidarity; warning of abuse, neglect or exploitation, or eliminating their consequences. Of course, it should be mentioned that the draft law has implemented the experience of NGOs, experiences from different local and regional levels, as well as strategic documents adopted by this country, starting with the Social Protection Development Strategy adopted in 2005, which has been repeatedly mentioned today, and, of course, international documents that we have ratified and accepted as a country. According to forecasts, the adoption of this law will increase the number of beneficiaries of social assistance by 40-60%, as the adoption of this law will otherwise treat multiple families and households where all members are unable to work, which requires higher budget fees. Of course, the positive effect is that 2.7 billion were allocated in the budget, if I was wrong, correct me, for the implementation of the new law, which certainly represents one driving force for the realisation and implementation of this law. The proposal for a new social protection law has the intensities to regulate this area in order to provide effective, rational and economical social services to all citizens in need. One of the papers the draft of this law highlights is the pro-active service of the beneficiary of financial social assistance, which is the possibility that social work centres may enter into contracts or so on. individual activation plans with users on their activation. Sublaws will further specify and develop activation rules. In this context, further detail is given to the co-operation of social protection centres and the National Employment Service. I have to point out, speaking of the National Employment Service, they have implemented in their programmes, in a way, that category where priority within the framework of the realisation of the programmes themselves has marginalized groups, users of material security, etc. I think this measure will give a much better result because we legally now define one procedure and that creates a prerequisite for teaching people, as it would be popular, to fish, not to give them fish. It should certainly be stressed that one of the newspapers is the possibility of operating in the field of social protection, both public institutions and civil sector organisations and private enterprises. The competent authority, in accordance with this law, shall ensure in its jurisdiction the establishment of a social protection institution, but also through the public procurement of services. What is certainly a prerequisite for the full implementation of the proposed solutions in the law are the forms of licensing of social security providers. The licensing system stems from the need to improve the quality and control of the provision of social protection services, in a system based on the plurality of service providers and the right of users to choose competent providers of quality social protection services. The system of accreditation of training programmes for social protection professionals improves the quality of social protection services. Why am I stressing this segment now? Because field experience is multiple and very different, and by those who work at social work centres and by users. Of course, often the provision of services and the use of the service itself depends on some individual potentials, but what we need legally to regulate and what we really need to create frameworks are equal opportunities for this service to be uniform and equally accessible, with equal quality for all our citizens. That's exactly the part where we talk about even development. I also have to commend the part where it was considered in which part and to what extent it would be helped by what environments. I think it's an extremely important thing. What I would like to mention is that, as well as a good part of my colleagues, as I heard today in the discussion, I have submitted two amendments to the article. 82nd and 84th, but we'll probably talk about it on the day we consider the law in particular. I'd like to appeal this time, perhaps, to a greater application of the law on safe houses and not always to have the victim leave his home. Also, what we expect from the Ministry (so far has shown really best intentions and very good results) is one intersectoral co-operation. Certainly, the law is given to local self-government to show their needs and opportunities at their local level. In practice, we have examples of cross-sectoral co-operation at local level, primarily of human trafficking and victims of domestic violence; they are signed so-called. Memorandas or co-operation protocols between different institutions at local level. I am aware of the fact that this matter cannot be regulated in one roof law, because this is indeed one roof law, but this time I urge the representatives of the Ministry to try to resolve this issue through some lower act or document. In any case, I'm going to mention once again that decentralisation and lowering responsibility from higher levels to lower is of paramount importance. I'm going to try to appeal to my colleagues to think about whether this is the law we're solving one essential question or whether we're trying to solve individual cases. I think that by essentially solving certain topics and certain areas, we are giving individuals the opportunity to live a better life. In that case, I want to commend this law on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50927	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Daniela Lovrin.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50928	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure today to discuss the social protection law, above all, because the existing Social Protection and Social Security Act has been overcome and this is why a large number of citizens who needed assistance have remained out of the protection system. Of course, first of all, to say that I will vote for this law, as well as my colleagues from the Democratic Party. In my presentation, I will refer to several members who, in my opinion, are significant and will improve the position of our most vulnerable citizens. First, it should be pointed out that the adoption of this law will cover a number of citizens who need assistance. When I talk about social aid, since I worked a few years ago at the Center for Social Work, I can't help remembering one of my clients, a grandmother who lives in a suburban settlement near Capco. She had a humble house and a 50-ar garden. She was, of course, incapacitated, and precisely because she had a 50-ari payer, she could not exercise her right to social aid. She was, of course, not left to herself because there is a well-developed system of social protection at local level with us, so through current aid and other forms of social giving, we helped that grandmother and other users who were in a similar situation, so I want to praise the provision of this law that gives the possibility to incompetent persons with more land, which is up to one hectare, to exercise the right to social assistance. I have some remarks, too, but when I'm done with things that are good, I'll look back at those remarks. What is also important is that this law provides the possibility not only for more users to exercise the right to social assistance, therefore, to be given money, but also to increase those benefits, if they are persons with disabilities, in addition to other people's assistance and care, when it comes to persons with a 100% disability. So that's another good thing that's foreseen by this law that shows that the bill promoter has heard about these categories that are the most endangered. There are different percentages that are mentioned, but about 30 - 40 percent of people who need help will get help when this law comes into force, which is very good. More social assistance will be received and families with six members. According to the current law, families with six members and families with five members were equal. When the law enters into force, the six-member household will get more cash than it was under the old law, and that's also good. The second newspaper, and here I cannot agree with my colleague, Jorganko Tabakovic, refers to the formation, i.e. the establishment of a center for family accommodation and adoption. So far, care and care services for children without family ageing have been done by social work centres, which are burdened with providing other services. Given the importance of matter and the fact that it is children, I think it is very good that there will be special centres that will deal exclusively with child protection without parental ageing. No one can convince me how much better it is for a child in a home, no matter how good that home was, how well equipped and how good those educators are, but for a child in one family, in a foster family, who practically changes his natural family. After all, my modest experience at the Center for Social Work has shown that children living in foster families are doing much better, they are developing much faster than children living in social protection institutions. So this is how the promoter showed that he is responsible and that he wants to protect children without family ageing. Finally, nothing less important is that the adoption of this law will provide more quality services, I am talking about all social protection services, for the simple reason that all professional workers' obligations, all institutions dealing with social protection, have to be educated, means, continuous learning, renewal of the license, obtaining a license, which automatically leads to more efficient and quality provision of social services. I can say that social aid may not be enough for people to provide all their existential needs, but, in any case, it should not be forgotten that this state and government, in which the Democratic Party, with certain breaks, is giving regular financial contributions. I'm not saying they're enough, but they're certainly very important to people who have nothing to live on. It should not be forgotten that in 2001, there were delays in supplies for material security and for other people’s care and assistance for 24 months, or 27 months. All of this was compensated by Zoran Djindjic's government at the time. From that period until today, giving for these faces is regular, which is of course very significant. Now, let's talk about the objections. I have already noted that people living in a house with a yard of 50 acres have so far been unable to exercise the right to social assistance. It's a good thing, when it comes to persons unable to work, this law will allow them to do so, given that the upper limit is one hectare. I don't think we should leave this line when it comes to even being a working person, since it can't be expected that a four-member family who is unemployed and has 50 acres can provide itself with a normal existence. Well, look, just think, since there are still opportunities to change this term, about possible changes. Another observation; it does not refer to services that will eventually be provided by social protection institutions, but rather to the selection of directors at social work centres. I believe that social workers, at all professional social security workers, wanted to protect the profession, because I know what a concrete observation was when I came to the Social Work Centre in 2001, and that they thought it was good for the director to be someone who deals with social protection. It may be a good thing if there are people at the Social Work Centre or social protection institutions who could do a good job as a director, but if they don't exist or don't want for different reasons, there's simply no possibility of someone coming on the side. Then I would have that member... Because there are still, although I have not submitted to the amendment, the possibilities to be persons with a seventh degree of professional training and five years of professional experience. Of course, these remarks are not as significant as the shifts that will bring about the application of the new social protection law. Finally, to recapture, the new social protection law will provide more money, for more socially endangered persons, will provide better protection for children without parental ageing and, of course, better quality social protection services. And, as I said at the outset, that is why the ZES Group of MPs will vote to pass this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50929	Thank you. I give my word to the MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50930	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, today we are talking about a bill on social assistance. Otherwise, believe me, it's not five to twelve, it's twelve and fifteen to pass a law like this. I assumed that this law would be passed much earlier, the moment this socially responsible government was formed, when it was responsible for social policy, because this law would thus protect citizens from the inaction of this government, because this government introduced unremembered economic and social sanctions to its people. So what I wanted to point out is that I have in my hand the exposés of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, a government programme agreed on by 18 parties; the fourth point is to strengthen social responsibility. In fact, Mirko Cvetkovic says in his exposé: "One of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia will be to strengthen social responsibility towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in order to improve the conditions of life and the work of all Serbian citizens, and especially the most vulnerable categories of the population. The government's goal is to make the largest layers of the population participate in the results of economic progress in the coming years. “ Mr. Minister, I will ask you if economic progress is what Mrs. Gordana Matkovic, former minister, and now adviser to Mr. Tadic, says that millions of Serbian citizens are on the verge of existence? Is economic progress now less than 320 euros, and three years ago it was 426 euros? Is economic progress that the consumer basket is now 70,000 for the four-member family and for the three-member family 52,000? Is economic progress that this government has lost 400,000 jobs by its inaction? So, in Serbia, it's hard to live, it's a fact, and most difficult to live, Mr. Minister, in southern Serbia. You had the opportunity to see for yourself, since you were in Leskovec a month and a half ago, you met with the people of Leskovec and they told you about the difficulties in southern Serbia. Namely, there are three reasons why we are living badly: because the government is not doing anything about it down in southern Serbia; here we now have this interventionist law, which will only put out the fire; local self-governments do nothing but heritage of folk cuisine, nothing more; third thing, because transfers to local self-government have been lifted, especially in southern Serbia. I'm sorry to say this, I don't want to politicise it, but Serbia is dying of poverty because of its great lack of wealth in the south. We had two cases, in the village of Dobrotin and in the village next to Han, that people in the 21st century died of hunger because of poverty. I remind you that Serbia is not Ethiopia, Serbia is a European country and it belongs in Europe, and this is the 21st century. We also expected, Mr. Minister, that compared to this law, and it's causal and consequential, you would have a law on wartime military reserves. In fact, this law showed up on the government site for a moment, so it's been downloaded, I don't know why. I have an obligation, because I've been contacted by the reservers, 14,000 reservers from the Jablani County were in Kosovo and they want to have the same rights as all the other reservers. Since reservers from the neighboring district, Toplička County, have received material help, they wonder when their problem will be solved, since they have been in contact with you, have worked on this bill, and when this matter will be here in law. Because 50% of them are social cases, living off their parents' pensions, from a country they have or from some kind of social aid. I also have in my hand, Mr. Minister, and a request from a military reserve, a soldier who spent a lot of time in Kosovo, is named Dragan Rangelovic. He made a request to you, too, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, and to you, ministers, to solve your problem. In late 2004, he received leukemia in November because he was exposed to the radiation of poored uranium from the bombs NATO dropped on Kosovo. Because of bureaucracy, i.e. Because of the current law, which is anachron, he cannot resolve his fighting disability, as members of 77th and 79th present a time when medical documentation is to be attached. However, he became ill almost in 2005, so he could not, in time, apply for disability within two years, so I would ask you to consider this case as well. I'd like to thank you in advance. I wanted to read to you, among other things, about the difficult life in southern Serbia, a report from the Statistics Institute, which says: unemployment is one of the burning problems in Serbia, and the Jablani County belongs to a group of districts with the highest unemployment rate. By analysing the data in 2008, 2009 and 2010, we see that the number of unemployed does not decrease, but rather increases. Next, the report said: the unemployment rate from 37.5% in 2008 (see, 2008) rose to 44.60% in 2009 and in 2010 to 45.2%, while the employment rate from 21.54% in 2008 decreased to 15.3% in 2009, and we have no data for 2010. When it comes to this law, we were expecting, Mr. Minister, that this law will deal with one topic that is extremely important to the citizens of Serbia. If the family is a foundation of a society, we expected that you as a central topic would also put social assistance to foster the birth of citizens of Serbia, because, as you know, we are as the fourth-place people in Europe, and in the 10th place in the world. We expected that some social measures would boost the birth rate, because our society was threatened by the shut-down. In the end, I wanted to tell you that the DSS won't vote for this bill. We tried to amend the amendments to this law, but we wanted to show you -- every day spent with this government is tragic for Serbian citizens and we expect, not tomorrow, not the day after, but today, that this government resigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50931	MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50932	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a bill on social protection, a very important law, because we must not forget that the current Social Security Act has been in force for twenty years. I've come from Panchev, and in these last twenty years, since the end of 1989, I've been able to apply the provisions of the Social Protection Act on the ground. The fact is that a good part of what is envisaged and regulated by the bill is the obligation of local self-government; the fact is that many local self-governments in Serbia cannot, without the help of the state, solve these problems, however, in these twenty years, the entire social protection system is in one process of change, in the last ten years in the permanent reform process. The bill itself pays special attention to those poorest, especially families with children and social groups with the greatest risk of social exclusion, i.e. marginalisation. The problem is how all these people get involved in social flows and how in a certain way to make everyone play a part in society. The biggest newspaper, or one of the most important things, is the question of the family's material security, the very financial welfare. Many have talked about it today, and I think it's very important. But I think other things, strategic things that have come up in this bill, are also important. The paper is to introduce activation for labourable customers of monetary and social assistance. Special role is played by social work centres and the National Employment Service, just to create individual activation plans and to get as many people out of the circle of the poor as possible. One big topic is also the development of a network of services in the community. As you can see, many have also said, in the bill, that the concept of the development of services in the community, so-called open forms of protection. The fact is that the Ministry has been very active in the field in the past, and in the local congregations 122 municipalities have adopted social protection development strategies, with great help from the ministry. During the last engagement in local self-government bodies between 2004 and 2008, despite the fact that during that period, the number of unemployed in the Panchevo municipality's territory fell from 19,000 to 12,000 unemployed and we managed to reach almost 5% of the magical separation from the local social protection budget, what I can praise, is that we welcomed the end of the term by preparing a strategy for the development of local social protection services for the period 2008-2012, with a special separation on refugees and exiles, with analysis of the social housing (meaning analysis and projection of the social housing); a total strategy, with huge assistance from the Ministry and UNDP. I have to point out, like some of my predecessors, what's good is the issue of licensing regulation, because potential social security providers can also be civil, so both the private and public sectors. The focus is also on accreditation of training programmes for social protection professionals. I think the Social Protection Development Strategy adopted by the government in 2005 was a good starting point for this bill. I'd like to say that what strategically needs to be done and individual good solutions are practically reconciled here on the ground. We graduate lawyers may be surprised at how in the case of a part of the law, Article 69(1), where it is defined that the Centre for Social Work decides on the use of the services referred to in Article 68(1) by applying the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure, if this law is not different... It is regulated in point 2 that when a positive solution is made, no positive solution is issued, but a direct guide to the use of services. In the situation of a negative solution, a solution is issued, with the possibility of a legal remedy. This is where it practically started from the fact that the spot should be put out to address the needs of the citizens of life. I think that's a good solution. This suggests that when the law is drawn up, on the one hand, a well-traced theory, everything that is also the Lisbon strategy of 2007 is said in a way to work, but also life solutions that should contribute to the better lives of our citizens, particularly those most threatened, who need help and most of all. That is why I invite you all, dear colleagues and colleagues, to support this bill in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50933	Thank you. The word has a folk letter to Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50934	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, speaking today about the social protection law, we need to pay attention to a few things. First, the social protection law is aimed at the social care of the most vulnerable categories of the population, and that's that. However, the law in this form in which we are present today reflects the current state of the country and does not solve the source of the problem. It is indeed a big question whether it will provide a sufficient level of protection for the poorest citizens, which you did not think was possible by a previous legal solution. The law itself, long announced, will indeed bring about changes in the social protection system, but I fear that expectations may be higher than what the law will bring into practice. In order to solve this problem, but also to ensure the functioning of this law in practice, some preconditions must be met: under one, we must have a state financial system that will guarantee legally prescribed social protection; under two, in order to get to a sustainable financial system we need to start an economy, i.e. to have adequate economic growth, which can monitor public spending. That these two things are important witnesses and the law itself. If these conditions are not met, material aid for the most vulnerable categories of the population will be subject to a large question. The question is, what will happen to the dedicated transfers at the local level that you are announcing, or which law is prescribed, and a series of other things? In addition, you, Minister, state in one of your statements that without an increase in production and exports, we cannot expect an accelerated pace of economic and social product growth. We agree with this finding. However, we cannot agree with the next conclusion, which raises the question whether the government really understands the essence of the problem. In one of your statements, you say poverty is due to the global crisis and the rise in retail prices in Serbia, which are rising due to growth in the world market and energy prices. This can certainly be one of the reasons, but the problems affecting the society here and the economy are the result of a series of bad economic moves over the years, which have experienced their culmination in the last two years. Now we have a drastic increase in poverty. There are many examples of this: poor privatization, broken economy, predominant administration, corruption. Also, the rise in retail prices cannot be attributed only to rising prices on the world market, but also to the fact that the government has tolerated the monopoly position of individual producers for years. For the absurd to be higher, the prices of products that are so much under government control are rising. All of this could be attributed to the fact that the government doesn't have enough courage for root economic reforms and moves. Of course, Prime Minister Cvetkovic bears the highest responsibility for this condition. One of such moves, which is applied as a measure of helping endangered categories of the population, is the abolition of VAT on basic life supplies. The Serbian Radical Party has proposed this, but the ruling coalition has rejected it even though it is no newspaper and is applied in many countries. The government is coming forward with claims that VAT in Serbia is much smaller than in other countries, mainly talking about the overall VAT rate rather than the special rate. In many countries, even in EU countries, the tax on basic life supplies is smaller than in Serbia and these are facts, but this is already a lack of political courage for this government. A member who regulates responsibility in meeting the basic needs of life, among other things, states that everyone is obliged to take care of meeting their basic needs. Well, I guess that's understood, but for that kind of thing, you have to create pre-conditions. Also, people who receive social assistance under the new law will have to work. Of course, all the working citizens would like to have the opportunity to get a job and work, but for that kind of thing, you have to create preconditions. Under this law, the employment service in co-operation with the Centre for Social Work will try to find a job for users of material assistance. It is in these conditions, when a daily large number of people are out of work, an almost impossible mission, although these categories will be paid special attention, as it stands in the law. As one of the objectives of social protection, you also state the incentive to social inclusion. Also, you stated that social inclusion will be implemented in environments where it is realistically feasible. We're asking what we're going to do with environments where it's not realistically feasible? They won't all be in the same position. Will it be possible to meet one of the objectives of social protection: create equal opportunities for independent life and encourage social inclusion? Won't the less developed municipalities be reunited, or their inhabitants? We return to the claim – in order to comply with the provisions of this law, the conditions above must be met. The law seeks to implement the decentralisation of the material provision system with a reason to ensure that social services are accessible in an efficient, economic and rational manner to anyone in need of such assistance. However, decentralisation is a complex process, which cannot be ensured by simple law enforcement. According to World Bank research, the consequences of decentralisation of monetary fees in transition countries are negative. Also, the law stipulates that the Centre for Social Work is set up by the local self-government unit, but that it can be established for one or more units, which certainly does not allow adequate social protection. One of the grudges applies to Article 19. That's what my colleague Lydia Dimitrijevic was talking about, but I'll do it again. In order to improve social protection services, the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or local self-government can set up a public agency and a foundation. Unnecessarily. And it is not seen at all what would be the purpose of the agency and the foundation, if the next member is already prescribed that the programme of social protection improvements is determined by the competent minister, the province's competent authority, or the local self-government unit. Needless spending money. For the absurd to be greater, it is prescribed by the social protection law. It is also noticeable that several members are being smuggled into that a resolute minister is in charge of something. Where did that come from? I guess it's supposed to be the ministry, not the minister. The SRS consistently points to this, but the Government, or the Proposer, is going through almost all the laws. There's also a grudge in keeping records. By law you prescribe that it is conducted in paper form, and may be in electronic form. So he can, and he doesn't have to. In order to facilitate the record of rights and social protection services provided, we believe that it is important to be conducted in electronic form as well. By law, you have prescribed the public of work, but you have paid little attention to the great problem of informing potential users of their rights, i.e. the possibilities. Indeed, it is in the law that social protection institutions and social security providers provide free access to information about their work, which is commendable. But what about education for the population on social protection rights? Such individuals are most often socially and socially isolated and very often out of the reach of any type of information. For fees, relatively small amounts are prescribed. You're saying they're a reflection of real possibilities. Who's to blame? Of course, Government. Instead of indexing every month, the new law predicts going to index twice a year, with a consumer price index, which we also think will be a problem. The paper is also that the law provides for a six-member household, not a five-member household, to exercise the right to help. What about households with more than six members? These are just some of the reasons the SRS won't support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50935	Thank you. National MP Donka Banovic has a word. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50936	Thank you. Mr Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, today we are talking about a large system law, which should regulate a complex, diverse and sensitive area such as social protection of the population. How can this bill still be understood at this point? The minister explained why this law is now – therefore, all conditions have been met, there have been many different drafts, solutions, long worked on this law. I would say that it is less than a year to regular republican elections, so I see this law as an attempt by a socially irresponsible government to at least through the adoption of a relatively good system law on social protection convinces citizens of Serbia that this government is actually socially responsible, so if anything, through the law. This government called itself socially responsible three years ago. However, in this period, according to statistics in Serbia, more than 300,000 people were jobless or jobless. The IMF recently informed us that our statistics are incorrect, that it has been recorded that in Serbia as many as 400,000 people have lost their jobs! This law is not enough and there is no law that can protect citizens from this kind of work, nerada, or poor work of this government. Otherwise, the bill relies on the Social Protection Development Strategy, which was adopted as early as 2005. According to this development strategy, there is one basic objective, which is the development of social protection. This is, in fact, the development of integrated social protection in which social participants use existing resources in the most efficient way in social protection, but also develop new resources. The general objective of this strategy is to highlight the development of a network of services within the community. The very word “network” speaks a lot – you have more factors, but these factors need, when it comes to the local community, to be well connected and to function well as one whole. That is how I understand it, this integrated approach to social protection, which should have been built into this law on the basis of that strategy. I will list a few members where it is clear that there was a wish for the legislator to really have this integrated approach. For example, Article 7 discusses co-operation and the provision of social protection services. It states that institutions and other forms of organisation established by the law which carry out their activities, i.e. providing social protection services, cooperate with institutions of pre-school, primary, secondary and higher education, health institutions, police, judicial and other state bodies, etc. In the second position, it is said that the co-operation will take place within the frameworks and in the manner established by the co-operation agreements. This law speaks of agreements on co-operation being reached. You have a Article 58, which defines what intersectoral co-operation is, where it is prescribed that this cross-sectoral co-operation will take place in accordance with the concluded co-operation protocols. The law shows an attempt at an integrated approach. However, I am suspicious that this will happen. Why am I suspicious? Because there is no integrated approach in this government and state bodies of this country now and there is very little co-operation and communication. I can freely say that the ministry you run has shown some concern about a whole group of people. It's women entrepreneurs who are foster parents. In 2008, the Ministry of Finance adopted a phantom regulation (I say phantom because women entrepreneurs -- the foster parents only saw it in the middle of this year), which states that if an entrepreneur woman can become a mother, she must close her shop. It's not enough that she's transferring rights to management, let me say, to another person. These women entrepreneurs received solutions from the tax administration that they had to return all those funds they didn't even know would have to pay back, otherwise they were followed by dangerous consequences. Mr. Minister, this shows that you haven't found a common language with the Ministry of Finance. I haven't seen, perhaps you've made a statement somewhere about this problem, but women entrepreneurs, those who are capable enough to provide their own existence to their family and workers who work with them, you haven't protected and you haven't even responded to their memos. Please take this opportunity today to tell us how this problem will be solved. Otherwise, according to statistics, there are 54,000 women entrepreneurs in Serbia. Of course, some plan to have children, and some won't. But this is definitely a big problem. Also, I'll remind you that here is a violation of the Labour Act, the Law on Financial Support for Family with Children, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, because a group of women is being discriminated here. I didn't hear the trustee react. There is also a violation of the Law on Gender Equality. You remember, Minister, that you were the minister who defended this law, and I ask that you and your ministry find an integrated approach to solving this problem regarding a large number of women. So, let's not conclude that this government is suppressing entrepreneurship and natality.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50937	I thank Mrs. Banovic and I give my word to MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50938	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to illustrate the importance of social protection and the need to adopt quality legal solutions, I will provide some information on poverty and social policy in the Republic of Serbia. According to official data, more than 700,000 citizens live below the poverty line in the Republic of Serbia. What does that mean? This means that they have about two euros per day for basic living needs. Of that number, only every fourth person, about 180,000 people, receives social assistance; the rest are left to themselves. Social assistance users living on their own receive about 6,000 dinars per month, and families with five and more members receive monthly benefits, according to the old law, 12,000 dinars per month, and under the new law it will be 13,000. In practical life, this means that a six - member family receives 2,200 dinars a month per household member, i.e. between 65 and 70 dinars a day, quite enough to buy half a kilo of bread and a half liter of milk. In Belgrade, between 80,000 and 100,000 people live below the poverty line, approximately 7% of the population of the capital. The number of social assistance users exceeded 10,000. In Southeast Serbia, the percentage of the poor range from 20% to 30%. I will set an example here of the municipality of Black Treva: 2,000 inhabitants, 300 social assistance users and another 700 citizens who need social assistance, however, cannot accept it. For what? Because they don't meet the legal requirements. It is the old people who have the country, however, who are unable to process the country, and for this reason do not meet the legal requirements of obtaining social assistance. A similar situation is in most rural areas in Serbia. In the last two years, instead of promised factories, instead of promised jobs, we have a tendency to open folk cuisines. Last year, every tenth of Serbia's population, living below the poverty line, used folk cuisine services. National cuisine services are used by 6,000 Belgrade citizens. Last year, compared to the previous year, the number of residents of the capital who use folk cuisine services increased by 30%, from slightly less than 4,000 to 6,000. In Novi Pazar, 1,880 inhabitants are fed in folk cuisines, and 700 of them are waiting to get their place next to this humanitarian display. In order for citizens who observe this transmission to know what this is about, what is a folk kitchen – it is a kitchen where the unfortunate people get one cooked meal a day. In Jagodina, the services of folk cuisine are used by 280 people, in Loznica 150, in King 600, in Prokuplje 300. There are 900 people living in Bujanovac, waiting for them 300; there are 650 users of folk cuisine services in Piroth, and 300 of them are waiting in line for this kind of social assistance. In Kursumlia, the most dramatic situation is that this service is used by 850 poor people, and among them is (a data that is truly amazing) 225 children under 14 years of age. This is the information that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all ministers, but we should be ashamed of ourselves here. In Leskovec the service is used by 500 people, and on the waiting list there are a hundred more of these unfortunate people. What may even be more alarming than the current difficult social situation is that the current situation in the Serbian economy generates the creation of an army of those who, in the near future or in the near future, will be users of social assistance or candidates for social assistance users. In Serbia, according to official data, there are 760,000 unemployed. According to some off-the-book data, that number's moving up to a million. The problem with them is not only that they are not receiving pay today, but that if the situation in their life in the economy of the Republic of Serbia does not change, when they grow old, when they become incompetent to work, they will not receive pensions. Tens of thousands of them will be candidates for receiving social assistance. Dragan Rajic of the Union of Employers of Serbia argues that between 470,000 and 530,000 workers in Serbia receive a minimum wage of 16,500 to 17,000 dinars. When they're done working time these people will receive a pension they won't be able to live on, and a large number of them will be forced to seek social assistance anyway. The next category is the category of people who work on black. According to data collected by the European Commission, 275,000 people work in Serbia. The Republic Statistics Bureau claims that there are about 123,000 of them, and independent estimates talk about 300,000 people working on black. If a number of these people are questionable, then there is no question in any case that these people are not being paid pension and disability insurance, that they, unless something drastic changes, will not receive retirement tomorrow and will also become serious social aid candidates. The next problem is 150,000 workers working in 60,000 companies whose accounts are in constant blockade. They don't get paid, they don't pay these contributions. Tomorrow, when they meet their retirement conditions, they will become candidates for social aid. In order to understand the importance of this problem, I will repeat the data brought here by my colleague Lydia Dimitrijevic. In 85% of Serbia's municipalities, the population is extremely old. We are one of the oldest nations in the world and among the two or three oldest nations in Europe. In 102 municipalities the population is in a serious age stage, in 38 municipalities the population is in a phase of deep age. I'm going to look back here at two concrete legal solutions. First, he's a member of 19. It's a bill of law. This article provides that any municipality and any city may, after the adoption of this law, establish an agency or foundation that would deal with improving social protection. I think it is wrong, that it is a continuation of the wrong policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There is practically no session so that we do not adopt some law establishing a new foundation, a new agency, a new council, a new administration, and all these bodies are financed from the budget, from the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think there's any socially justified reason, especially at the time of this economic crisis, when you're publicly declaring an effort to save, to establish new institutions besides the social work centres and other social protection institutions. I don't think families who use social assistance need to start new agencies and foundations. They don't care how many employees they will be in these agencies, they need an increase in the number of jobs, primarily in production. If this proposed solution remains, we have proposed that it be deleted by amendment, it may happen that this year we have the formation of nearly 200 agencies and foundations that would be involved in improving social protection! If each of them only employs three employees, it's almost six hundred new workers, six hundred employees. What does that mean in practice when it comes to money? This means that there are two hundred rooms to be provided or money to pay for salaries, to pay for phones, money to pay for utility services. We believe that it is more socially beneficial to use these funds to provide direct assistance to social protection users, and even better to focus these resources on creating new jobs. I'm referring specifically to the opening of the so-called. social, non-profit enterprises whose goal is not to make a profit, but to provide the minimum profit that will allow employees in these companies to survive from first to first. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in Slovenia 7% of employees work in this so-called Social enterprises. The next member of the law, or the next flaw of this law that I want to comment on, is that it is not enough to protect smaller agricultural holdings. Under the bill of law, the right to social assistance shall have households that have less than half a hectares of land, or less than one hectare of land, if household members are unable to work. The minister here said that the surface could be bigger if members of the household mortgaged the same land. I really don't want to comment on it, I guess the intention was good, I think the result is very bad and defeated. It's also terrible to suggest that someone who has half a hectare of land, and I guess it's old people who can't work, to survive the sea and that half a hectare of land, which he may have left for him to mortgage, and probably lose that same land tomorrow. First, there are few households in Serbia that can live off half a hectare of land. These are rare cases, when it comes to extremely high quality land, when it is located in an exceptional location and when it comes to households that are under circumstances, or because of their ability to make it a good family business, but these are very few. Secondly, most of the households in this category are nursing households and are mostly in underdeveloped parts of the Republic of Serbia. These people, because of their age, are not able to process this country because of their health, let alone process it in such a quality way that they can generate income that would allow them to live normally. They don't have anyone to rent that land because they're also neighbors of older people, poor people. And they have no one to sell that land to. If it is sold, the country's price in Serbia is extremely low and their problems would be resolved in the short term, in a year or two. Thirdly, this law does not distinguish the quality of land and treat half a hectares of the highest quality orans next to Novi Sad, in Belgrade, next to Nis and half a hectare of land on the cave highlands or the Old Mountain. It's about as if you're taxing a car carrier with a 20-ton truck that's new and a car carrier that has a truck that's 25 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50939	The word is Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50940	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, according to the Social Protection Development Strategy, an effective social protection system should emerge from the general process of democratisation of society and social policy reform. He should respond to the needs of citizens in these circumstances and support vulnerable and marginalised individuals and groups who are unable to participate in economic activities provide their existence. In order for the reform in this area of social life to be successful, a prerequisite is the existence of a social map. This involves a comprehensive view of a society, starting with socio-demographic data, through education, employment, or unemployment, all the way to housing policy. There are various statistics and studies for each area, but there is no social map in Serbia. No reform launched has been completed or has produced results, as in healthcare or education, without talking about how much this authority is interested in demographic policy. Reforms are based on the normative, i.e. on the change of existing laws or their changes and additions, which in practice face many obstacles in application, because standards have not been established so that they can be applied. So in our case, they come down to reforms in an attempt. Serbia's population is getting older, the nation's biological threat is high, as is the unemployment rate. Social breakdowns are increasing, not only due to a sharp rise in unemployment, but also because the family is losing its protective role, more and more supported family members. Children who are full - age and working able to support their grandparents because their parents lost their job, and they themselves are in a state of imperceptibility in finding any job. Most young people can't find a job, not just in their profession, which is devastating for a society that calls itself democratic. With this in mind and the disastrous economic situation in Serbia, which has produced poverty and misery and, accordingly, the occupation of only personal and less or less impertinent problems, how we will achieve one of the objectives that you have set in Article 3. The bill, which is to preserve and improve family relations, as well as improve family and intergenerational solidarity? A society you're after, and that's what it's called. The society of Western democracy, it doesn't need a solidarity community. It is a society where an individual is favored, so that it can be manipulated more easily through the daily intrusions of so-called. new values. In this way the individual becomes insensitive to the problems of others, even in the nearest neighborhood and environment. Often, the printed media shocks us with the fact that an old person has died of hunger or has been frozen, and social work centres have no knowledge that such cases are on their territory. Solidarity is promoted mainly in election campaigns, as well as other values, which are later forgotten. In addition to marginalized groups and individuals, as well as persons who are unable to provide their existence, so-called. the state of social needs is growing more and more capable and healthy people, and even those who are employed. The state where citizens are employed has to change power. A government that unfeelingly owes to everyone and everyone and who doesn't know what else to sell in order to get the money, which that expensive money doesn't focus on production, but on consumption, has to change such a policy urgently, or go away. No social strategy of such a government will help, however nice it sounds, and no matter how many new agencies it opens. An economy where only so-called. People's cuisines work full-time there's no future, and 550 people lose their jobs every day, there's no future for people's cuisines either. At least 40,000 citizens of all ages are now feeding in them, although some local self-government has already closed its national cuisine due to reduced transfer funds by the Republic government. By adopting a series of laws according to the European standards of poor municipalities, they have been put in a position to put themselves in a dilemma whether to solve the problem of stray dogs at the heart of social giving. Of course, this in a moral sense cannot and must not be placed as a dilemma, but such paradoxes in an impoverished society such as ours are increasingly appearing. What kind of Europe and its standards should we talk about in this social threat, and is Serbia so poor that its citizens suffer this much humiliation? In Article 4. The bill says: “Every individual and family who needs social assistance and support in order to overcome social and life difficulties and create conditions to meet the basic needs of life have the right to social protection, in accordance with the law. Social protection rights shall be provided by providing social protection services and material support. “ A quote has been completed. Can this right be achieved by anyone who needs social protection in our terms? Practice shows he can't. How many people in Serbia never get that help, not even one time? The reason is not only an economic possibility at a given time, but also a complicated bureaucratic procedure, as it is necessary to collect up to 15 different certificates and assurances in order to achieve this right. If the government strictly enforces the laws that exist, which are good even if they are not pro-European, and those which it now brings itself, in the act of criminal provisions, we would not need safe houses for victims of domestic violence, as well as for children on the street. How humane and responsible a society is to care for children in need of social protection. Much has been done in this regard, but social work centres are faced with an increase in violence against children in the family. The resources allocated to social protection must be far greater if those objectives set out in Article 3 of this Act are to be achieved. The draft law in Article 19 provides for the possibility of setting up a public agency and a foundation to improve social protection services, despite the fact that there are other institutions of social protection, the founders of which are local self-government, autonomous province or republic, such as the Centre for Social Work, the Institute for Social Protection, the institution for raising children and youth, and services in the field of social protection can also be provided by other entities, such as associations, entrepreneurs, a company, etc., as stated in Article 17 of this Act. One way to give greater funding for social protection is not to set up one such agency, which would be another in a number of parasitic institutions, which are otherwise over 120. Nothing out of the ordinary, every new bill contains a famous provision for the establishment of a new agency. That's what makes us recordrs. We're gonna start an agency on the agencies, so I guess we're rounding up the business! A man dependent on social assistance is an economically insufferable man, and thus has limited freedom. In order for social assistance to be adequately provided only to those who are unable to care for themselves permanently or temporarily, and which in every society there are, many things in the country must be set up differently, above all in the economy, which depends on the achievement of social giving. No right in this area can be exercised unless there are no funds. It is therefore necessary to reduce pressure on social ageing institutions through different care, primarily by employment. It can't be fixed by constantly firing workers to repair the country's social map. So, the main generator of the social crisis and the main culprit for the daily deterioration of the situation in society is the government, which calls itself socially responsible. The results of such work and behaviour towards citizens are obvious, which is that there are over 700,000 citizens living in poverty or on the poverty line in our country. It's particularly worrying that this number is on the rise. Whether this trend will continue in the next period will also depend on what effects in the field of social needs and giving will be achieved by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50941	I give my word to the MP Gordani Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already stressed in the morning part of this session that the MPs of the SRS are not satisfied with this proposal for a social protection law. Because of the citizens of Serbia who did not look at us in the afternoon, I want to repeat this and emphasise it. We're not satisfied for any more reason. Here, as long as it allows me... I'm sorry, how much longer do I have since the MP's time? (President: 13 minutes. Thank you. I'm saying, we're not satisfied for any more reason. I'm going to mention some of those who are concerned with the social rights of citizens. I don't think this law is regulated enough. Among other things, I believe that the principle of respect for the integrity and dignity of users will not be adequately implemented, in accordance with Article 69. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is not the principle of the best interest of users and the principle of non-discrimination, in accordance with Article 21. The Constitution. I will now quote Article 27, which refers to the principle of the best interest of the user: “Social protection services are provided in accordance with the best interests of the user, respecting its life cycle, ethnic and cultural origin, language, religion, life habits, development needs and need for additional support in everyday functioning. ” I have tried my best to find a definition of the best interests of the user, so please, Mr. Minister, if you can define what this means to us "the best interest of the users". This is clearly and precisely not seen in this bill. Also, I am not sure about the principle of respect for dignity and integrity; not only will it not be respected in this part, but it will not be respected by the introduction of official IDs that I have spoken of, because in the centres of social work, professional associates and workers will receive official status. In this way, abuse and discrimination of social security users is possible. Discrimination can also be seen in Article 88, paragraph 2, which was the case, so I don't want to repeat myself. I find it inadmissible, I would like to repeat this once again, that this status has professional associates and professional workers, because in our country there are institutions that need to react if there are problems between the users and the service provider and that adequately protects service providers. I don't think this proposed law comes from looking at current needs, developing a system of social protection, perceived problems and shortcomings, but from the definition of European integration and the application of international standards and recommendations, which is a prerequisite for the EU. We also consider this, and I will confirm to you, later on, that this bill is wrongly and insufficiently engaged in social protection institutions for the accommodation of users, such as homes for children and young people with special needs, homes for adults and old people distracted in mental development and mentally ill faces, as well as homes for persons with sense and physical disability. In this law she did not find her place of child protection, primarily youth, and all other users, from abuse and neglect in these institutions. The disadvantages of this law are seen in many members. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Minister, is it a technical error in article 208, is it your superficiality in the processing of this law? Article 208 refers to funding from the Autonomous Region budget. You say: “From the budget of the autonomous province they are funded... “, then points 1, 2, 3, and then you move to points 5 and 6. It's something that's certainly inadmissible and should be corrected by the most likely amendments. On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, we have submitted a large number of amendments to this bill. I hope you'll have a hearing and at least one of these amendments will accept. At first, since you, Mr. Minister, as I am a doctor, I would like to talk about this network of health and social institutions mentioned in this bill. I don't think it's been processed enough in the previous law, and it's not in the current one, and that's why users of health services and social protection will suffer. I couldn't see anywhere what was going on, for example, with mental patients who spent three months in hospitalisation at some mental hospital, not because they had to spend three months, but because social work centres or social services couldn't find accommodations, and families couldn't accept such mental patients. Then what's going on? Such mental patients are transferred if there's room, and that's a big problem. In Belgrade, there is one one shelter for adults and old faces on Kumodraška Street, where you have hoped and seen what inhuman and unworthy conditions are for the lives of those persons. There are sick, healthy, younger, older, men and women. These institutions provide as much as possible, however, what is inadmissible, it is that more than ten years are told specifically that they will expand, that they will create larger capacities, and nothing is happening. If there is such a shelter here in Belgrade, where about 135 people can be taken care of, what is the situation in other environments, and what are the conditions for accepting faces that have no place to go? I don't think there's enough co-operation between health institutions and social institutions, not only for psychiatric patients, but also for patients with physical diseases, such as malignancies. There are situations that the family does not want to accept or have the conditions to accept a person who is in the terminal stage of malignancy, or who has had a stroke; then it is waiting days and days for accommodation in a home, and during that time the family must pay very high prices for the care of these patients. I think in this law, you should have solved this problem. I believe that in some way the issue of care for users in homes or social protection institutions that have some health problems is resolved, but in particular, there, and at that shelter, I will return to that, as in many other homes, very often there are people who do not have health books, who have not been regulated... They don't even know their last name. I think the centres work very slowly and it is not a temporary accommodation for some people; specifically in Belgrade, people stay there for three, four and five years, until accommodation is found in a home, mostly outside Belgrade. Besides, I'd like to refer to the part about the family center, the housing and adoption. We felt that the center for family accommodation and adoption in this law would find many more places, but you only regulated the activities of this center with one member. I think it's very important, because fostering and adoption is something that is set out in this bill from the Social Labour Centre, and which is a major problem in this country. You know how much there is a requirement for the adoption of children, how long it's been waiting for the adoption of children, and at the end of the day people give up because these kids cross a line when people want to adopt them. I think it's one of the problems that must have taken a little deeper and a little wider to solve this law, but unfortunately, you're not. In the end, I would like to refer to the fact that this bill is a very complicated key problem relating to material giving, on the basis of the amount of material giving. It's something you've explained here, but it's so complicated to understand for us who are trying and consulting some who are dealing with it, let alone users. So Articles 87, 88 and 89 should have been simplified to make it clear to users. They're interested in how much this base is going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's going to be, what it's However, you introduce many terms that are rather vague to them. Talks with people who are recipients of these services leave the impression that the percentage of those who have so far remained denied for social benefits (40%) may continue to increase, not what you said at the beginning of the reasoning – that these grants will be greater and much more numerous. However, with such a complicated procedure, I believe that people will find it harder to obtain what they belong to. I don't want to go back and mention especially the kind of farm household. We know it's next to the kids... (President: It's been 13 minutes, bring the end. All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50943	Thank you. The People's MP Mileta Pocurica has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50944	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, colleagues from the Ministry, before us, the new law, in substance, has been amended in comparison to the previous one, and in real terms, we are faced with a problem that actually years of transition have failed to solve in the way that at the beginning of its event, it is very ghastly spoken of, that when the country is settled in a different way, especially its economy, economy, industry, education, health care, education and everything that should result in a better quality of life, a better educational level and a greater working chance to reduce social needs. I'm not going to talk about statistics because they're very inconsistencies. Depending on whether you open a National Employment Service website, some private media, agencies, listen to what the IMF says about us, or whether you open up a National Employment Service website, the relevant parameters will vary greatly. The fact is, we have several thousand people a month who had jobs and no jobs left. How many percent of them will be in a state of social need this month or next month can hardly be properly imagined. The answer of some ministry officials that coming to the social map is an impossible mission may in some ways need to be accepted with understanding, but we have a list ahead of us; this list should be very relevant and referencing to this, unfortunately or fortunately, necessary or unnecessary, the document finally comes. We cannot close our eyes to reality, because the problem of social protection remains with every future government, in which I believe there will be no more protagonists, those who are here in a certain way, taking responsibility for the fate of the state, brought. The fact is, therefore, that we are faced with growing demands, that we are faced with the growing need of people to be given direct financial, material help. They would prefer such a variant, making it the simplest for citizens, even if after those who are capable of functionally, locomotorly, anatomically managed with this little money. More regulated systems, more orderly companies are able to be very favourable to social protection users in terms of paying specific services, therefore, electricity services, utility services, etc. Here, of course, it is not intended as a special kind of social assistance. Maybe we shouldn't even do that when we're listening to what kind of affairs are being embodies with the functioning of public enterprises. Well, I guess we're not gonna be the ones who got sick of helping the state with direct financial injections, spilling one budget section into the other, in the crisis that they came to and brought themselves and the citizens into, through the accumulation of their services, we're now helping with direct investment? That is why, speaking of some details, because there has indeed been a principled speech on many things and this would be unnecessary repetition of the story, I will refer to what this law seems to contain, and that it may represent a beautiful, washable variant and proof that it has approached the European law-making model, and that this essence will not be useful and will not be of benefit to the users themselves. For example, it is a matter of discretion, through a number of members, the principles that this law carries with it: the best interest of users, the prohibition of discrimination, the least restrictive environment, efficiency, timely social protection, etc. Does that mean the previous law didn't respect that? In some ways, yes. Does this mean that, given the possibility given to the user that, if it is psychologically capable, or by means of a lawyer or guardian, I will be using these members to refuse some kind of social aid, and then it is unconditionally further to talk? Whoever refuses anything, as things are set here, there is no more hope for his improvement. Timeliness – does this mean that, as Dulic is now trying to do with the amendment of the law, the social worker will go to meet the case, because many people have pride and are unable to come if someone does not tell them and seek social assistance? Will social work centres form mobile teams? If you do that to sublegal acts and disrupt them, I see you've predicted some almost military liability measures, which I like. Still, people will have to do their job. The right to participate in decision-making – that is exactly what I was talking about, how when you idealize something in previous members of the law you can come to the conclusion that without the consent of the user, or his representative, you cannot provide care. You can't always have an accurate insight into what the one who represents the user in his so-called so-called. He can do the best of interest. I'm afraid some extensions, some washing of these members can lead to someone, neither guilty nor due, being without social assistance or being delayed indefinitely. The right to free choice looks like the right to choose a doctor. Actually, they're forced. Today you choose your doctor... He's a forced patient because he's scheduled for an appointment. So the right to choose a service provider freely, perhaps in future times, in much more orderly conditions, can be. There's not much choice about a social work center, when it points someone somewhere; they're not going to change the environment, the district, etc. to give someone...? Except where it is necessary, as special centres, like ours in Kragujevac, where users of services come from all over Serbia, but it is a matter of his fate because of a limited number. Family accommodation providers – there I wanted to mention some anomaly I saw in the 4th and 5th attitude, where it says it should be family and, if it is not family, there may be another person who is licensed, trained. Licences and trainings are given by different bodies, etc. Paragraph 4 or 5 states that the person in St. 1 and 2. (so, either family or any other natural person) a family accommodation centre and the adoption of a licence with a two-year period of validity. If we're going to the general licensing clause, who's issuing licenses, we're dealing with some kind of buffalo licensing, or it's possible that I didn't get this right. But it doesn't matter how I understand it, or the citizens, it's important that those who are going to enforce the law on the ground, your service, understand this that the center for family accommodation will issue licenses, past all the rules, these two years. What gives him the right to issue licenses, if the institutions are licensed by a minister, and the employees are issued by their chambers? Well, that's what you'll probably see, maybe I didn't get it very well, I devoted some of the attention and that problem. The provision of services by tender is a matter to be introduced, but the tender should be in line with members who speak perhaps of an impossible mission – to be the cheapest, to provide the most, to be the most economical and to meet all the principles given. How do you find such a tender, secure all this? Is it possible to be the most favourable, and the best interest, and the best standards, the best quality, the most economical? It's hardly possible, but there's a need to put in place the control of such tenders, at least at the level of local self-government, at least internal control, to try to get it in order somehow. It takes control of such purchases to be public, because there are a large number of service providers to come forward, so let's see if it's for the same or more money. When a person with an instruction is sent and wants more services, it is not clear until the end how more services will be provided to him. Perhaps a more acceptable solution is to send such a person to an institution that can provide more services at the same time, not to implement more instructions in different institutions, for each one a special instruction is given. There were things about paying, they were talking about colleagues. When a payment agreement is concluded with the obligor, the service must be taken into account whether it will apply equally to the fact that someone has been sent by a court decision or sent with an instruction to a state or private institution to use the service... I'm afraid the privates will agree to sign the contract easily with whoever needs to pay the favor after the trial is under way. So, you have a settled court dispute, in which someone who supports or is responsible for supporting users of the service has agreed to pay for it, and has a court dispute in progress, where it will last and where the funds are later refunded. I'm afraid that private individuals, natural persons who get a license, accredit programs, are going to want to sign one of those contracts. Direct bargaining – indeed, some percentage should be left behind. I'm not sure how often the minister will revise that percentage, the quota of those who will directly negotiate the service. I think that this is a very variable quota and that once a percentage is established in your sublaws may mean that some institutions will not be filled up as instructed by the social institution on the cost of the state, but that someone who wants to pay will pick up medium or average expensive pensions; people will not be able to find shelter in accommodation until enough centres are built and the price is brought down by competition, which is already a distant future. However, such a service provider is required to provide a child and an adult person with deprived business skills based on the instructions of the competent centre. It's the law, they're mandatory and they can't get away from it. There should be little and wise and send to those who refuse such men. That way I can understand this attitude of this member. As the basis was established, there were many comments. A virtual number was given here. It used to be an average salary... (President: Time. ) So, let me just say one final sentence, since we're saying goodbye to my story. When it comes to the chamber, the question is how current it is at all, these are different profiles of the chamber, different people involved, and I'm afraid everything doesn't turn out like a doctor's chamber, where no one ever lays down any financial accounts anymore. Are you going to warn me here or not... I'm sorry I didn't have more time, I'd have more objections to the law. Thank you. So, the dilemma is gone, we're a parliamentary group that will be against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50945	Thank you, fellow Poscurica. Since the lists of MPs are no longer registered for the word, before I find out if anyone who has not used his right under Article 96 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Mr. Minister, do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50946	Respecting your time, I'll be very brief. I have tried to sort out all the objections and criticisms of the bill in several groups, in particular several things that have been repeated in the discussions of several MPs and parliamentary groups. The first criticism refers to why the law has not been passed before. Right behind that, when the law had already reached the Assembly, the criticism was that we were doing it for the purpose of the election campaign. For the fact that the law hasn't been passed before, I don't want to accuse anyone or anyone to defend them. From 1990 to today, the average duration of government in Serbia is 21 months. Most of the parties sitting in this parliament were in power, in different periods; they had their ministers of labour and social policy, after two or three years of some, and the law was not passed. Now that we're passing the law, it's said to be due to the fact that we're entering the election year. No matter how hard I try to explain the reasons in the opening statement, it is obvious that someone does not care, that it is absolutely effective that we present the fact that it is for political reasons: instability, permanent election cycles. The second reason is that we wanted to test the experience in this area. As Mrs Tabakovic said, there are no accepted international standards in this area. In addition to the European Social Charter and some international documents and conventions, you have nothing else to say that the international standard is in the area of social protection. But what exists are examples of good practice that we wanted to apply, respecting all these experiences, and positive, unfortunately, and negative. When it comes to decentralisation, we said that there were negative experiences, that Romania, Bosnia and Herzegovina started the process, and then changed the law; they saw that the social protection system was developing unevenly in certain regions, depending on the financial opportunities of these districts, or regions. Therefore, it was essential to see in fact what of all these services, standards, examples of good practice can be applied, of course, not mechanically mirrored, but adapted to our objective social, economic and social circumstances. Although we are late to adopt this law, in fact, bringing it into the conditions of a major crisis, I hope that you will have the understanding of the fact that it is important that this law gets the support of as many MPs as possible, because it concerns a large number of citizens of Serbia, regardless of who they belong to. I really agree with some MPs who said there's no place for politicization here. There were complaints about the amount. That amount is small, whatever it is. And if we said it was 300 euros, there would certainly be MPs who would say yes, but that's not enough, it's not enough for an average consumer basket either. Now take the parameters from which we started. So, the four-member family has so far received social aid amounting to slightly less than 11,000 dinars, five-members of 12,000 dinars, six members also of 12,000 dinars. Following a new legal solution, the four-member family will receive 15,125 dinars, 5 members 18,150, a six-member family of 21,175 dinars. It is for 100 euros more than for a valid legal solution. Is it small? Yes, it is. Could we have done more? No, because we don't have the money. The point is, with this little money that we have at our disposal, we make the most of it and that these funds are best distributed. The next remark was that we were introducing agencies and foundations. That's not true. We leave the possibility that agencies should be set up at different levels of government, if necessary, because the experience of some countries says that these agencies and foundations were important and attracted investments from so-called. The European Social Fund, but these agencies and foundations cannot be financed by budget funds, cannot be explicitly financed by budget funds, because they are not available. They can be financed from donor funds, as was the case, with our Social Innovation Fund, which played a very important role precisely in the collection of these funds, but also in the overall reform in the social protection system. Furthermore, as far as administration is concerned, although the new law provides for new rights, new obligations, and we will implement the obligations with the existing number of employees. There are no new receipts planned, unfortunately, because only in the social work centres are 102 professionals, but because of the restrictions on employment, we are unable to do so. Therefore, these new obligations will be carried out with the same number of workers as they have so far. It was also a complicated procedure. Yes, where it comes to the rights and the money of procedures, it's complicated to prevent abuses. Where services are concerned, the procedure has been simplified in the simplest way possible. But in this matter of significant financial resources, we had to keep that procedure at an existing level, so that it would be much sharper, and we had bad experiences, unfortunately. As for decentralisation, I said, there were experiences, very negative, with the process of decentralisation. We tried to find a measure to bring it into line with the needs of users and local communities, and that's where we have three levels. The state provides a minimum of social security for the poorest citizens, that's one level; the second is these services that develop at the level of local self-government, a whole series of services that we talked about; the third is these dedicated transfers, to prevent what I was talking about, and that's different regional development in the social services system and that we don't happen to have municipalities with highly developed social services and municipalities where these services are almost gone. We can't even do all that with these dedicated transfers, but we can reduce these differences, which unfortunately exist today. Belgrade can afford this, Jagodina has excellent social services, Kruševac, small municipalities, such as Paracin, Novi Sad, Nis, but unfortunately, the largest number of these municipalities have no opportunity to develop these services locally and therefore it is necessary to support these services. As far as home is concerned, no one has talked about closing homes, because it's impossible, housing homes for children with developmental disorders, but the fact is that these homes have to be far less capacity. For children 15, 16-year-olds, the home community is important because children develop in the environment with their peers and it is impossible to close those homes, but it is not a choice when it comes to small children up to three years old, when children are up to 15 years old. Home accommodation is just the last measure for them when other forms of social protection give no result. The existing homes will experience transformation. Homes will remain for housing children with developmental disorders, but there will also be multidisciplinary character, so we will develop counselling centres in these homes, and we will develop day-to-day stays and reception centres. It is impossible in this way to maintain a social protection system, as has been the case so far. Of course, there are two very large regrets here, which I must accept to stand. One concerns this property, or land census. To be honest, I don't have the best answer. The best answer is what is most honest – that we have no money. It would be ideal if we could lift that censorship, but in these conditions this might be the least bad solution. So we're not talking about one elimination condition that we're setting up here. We're just setting up a limit, determining the area of the country we're not looking for. Someone who has 25 hectares, if threatened materially, can use the right to financial and social assistance. The only condition is to give the mortgage, and the country can use it, rent it, lease it, otherwise the country to use, but it's necessary to put a mortgage on that land. The second remark was that the beneficiaries of financial social assistance were able to achieve this right for nine months. It's about families where most members are capable of work. That solution exists also in the applicable law. What's the point? The bottom line is that in the summer months, first of all, we help activate users, that these users find the opportunity to work on temporary and seasonal jobs, because, as I said, the whole spirit of the law is not to keep people in a state of social need, but to help these people get out of the system. There have been other objections here. As for Article 179, regarding the granting and withdrawal of licences, that amendment to Mrs. Gordana Rajkov was accepted. We've accepted some of the other amendments that we've talked about here, but we'll talk about that when we talk about the law in particular. As for the objections, which also stand, I must admit, about the parent relationship - the fosterer and the foster family, it is an observation that we bring this law, conditionally speaking, into a privileged, privileged, better position of foster parents than natural, biological families, given the amount of financial assistance these families have. That's partly true, because one three-member family is materially threatened with one child, a disabled child, has a total of 33,143 dinars. So, 11,000 based on the material security of financial aid, 20,500 dinars based on increased care and assistance and 2,643 dinars of child's allowance; therefore, the total amount is 33,000 dinars, which is more than foster families get. It was also an observation that foster care is a business. To be honest, we haven't had much difficulty, or incidents related to foster families. There's a problem here and there. Following these possible problems, it stands as an observation, we will set up five regional centres this year; it is planned 16 total, but due to lack of funds and current crisis, we reduced it to five centres, of which two in Vojvodina. These regional centres will provide all support to foster families, but at the same time exercise control and supervision of professional work in these families in order to prevent what MP Elvira Kovac was talking about. As for other suggestions that are not directly related to this law, therefore wartime military reservers and the new law, unfortunately, there has been no agreement between different associations on the draft of the law. I suggested that the bill they came up with did not reflect the real situation in the country, so it cannot be supported, since the funds needed to implement the law amounted to more than five billion dinars. It takes only 2.7 billion to implement this law. So I'm talking about different amounts and you have parameters in mind. We have so far had two laws, one applied at the level of the federal state and then in Serbia, which gave a general framework, and another, a republican law, which regulated special rights. Now we shall unite both laws. A tip will soon be formed on issues of wartime wartime disabled and veterans. They will be directly involved in making that law. There were also words here about Natalie. It's the subject of the Financial Support Act to the family, not the subject of social protection law. The adoption is the subject of family law, not this one. The remarks made by Mrs. Donka Banovic are related to maternity care. We've spoken to the Ministry of Finance, specifically the IRS. What we were told at the time is that the whole system would be compromised if there was a difference, given that women who use maternity leave fees, who are owners of enterprises or shops, when they transfer that right to someone else, the other one has to pay contributions. If an exception were made, the whole system would be questioned. The others are looking for the possibility and solution to a specific problem, which really exists here. So no one minimizes it. To be honest, I found out from the media about this problem. We've spoken to the Ministry of Finance, and I've been told exactly what I'm passing on to you right now. Here, I tried very briefly to get over everything we could hear here. The fact is, it's an important law. The fact is, we had a very good argument. As a result, we will accept a significant number of amendments proposed, with the aim of reaching the best text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-03-0.u50947	Mr. Minister, I thank you and your associates on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf. I'm finishing the initial search. On Monday at 10 a.m., we will have a special session at which, as you know, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr Cavusoglu, will address us. Thank you.
