ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58146	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that we are 95. To determine the exact number of Members present in the room, please insert the cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. I find that by applying the electronic system, it's found that we are now 87, and it has working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Gordana Komic and Milan Dimitrijevic, as well as that I agree with Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for today's session, in addition to the proposing representatives, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education and Science, to attend Dr. Tinde Kovač - Cerović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science, Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science, Mr. Zoran Kostic, Assistant Minister of Education and Science, Branka Totic, Director of the Institute of Intellectual Property and Natasa Ćirić, Senior Advisor. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail of the 5th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPLICATION OF THE LAWS ON THE BASES OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEMS. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Milan Dimitrijevic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Željko Tomić, Aleksandar Martinović, Nikola Savić, Milovan Radovanović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, together Tomislav Nikolić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Igor Budimirović, Jela Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kismarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović and Ljiljana Miladović, Borjubić and Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Šolić and Dragan Šormaz Šormaz, together Zlata Miljan Šorić, Milić Žarjan Žiljan Žilić as well as well as well as well as well as Mr Mirjan Žrić, Aleksandr, Mirjan Žaldić, Mirić, Aleksandr. You have received reports from the Committee on Education and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Jon Magda informed by written notice that he is withdrawing the amendment to Article 25 by correcting the amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. First, the applicants of the amendment. The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58147	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS has submitted 19 amendments to the amendments and amendments to this law. Now that we have seen the effects of these amendments, in fact how few of our amendments have been adopted, we can freely say that about the system, as we see, education and education and the system as you see it, is not exactly the same. But other than the concept that differs, I notice one more thing, that we don't speak the same language. This amendment relating to Article 2. The law actually concerns one language clarification. You say that adult education in general, or specificity of adult education, will be part of this law. We say that the effectiveness of adult education in the education and education system is governed by a special law. Why do we say that? Because this is one framework law, one system law, this law that we're talking about today. But we have special laws, laws that regulate preschool and law that regulates primary and secondary education. In doing so, it is fine to have a law on adult education. We use language to say it like that. So that should be what I wrote in this amendment in Article 1(2). Now you, when you answer us, say all the same things we wanted to say here. But, as you have written, you have written that the law on adult education will regulate the specificities of that education, and we are just saying that you will not only be specific, but you will arrange the whole area. I think it's more right in a language sense, much more correct, what we wrote. And I think you should take another look, because this can only improve this law the way you wrote it. But it's simply your right to adopt or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58148	Thank you. Since we don't have time on the screen, just a moment please. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58149	Unfortunately, our colleague Milan Dimitrijevic could not attend today's session, so I will use the time of the parliamentary group. Otherwise, this amendment concerns Article 4 of this proposal for amendments and additions, and it refers to the existing Article 10a. We suggest adding to Article 10a a new position 5, which reads: "The personal data are stored, used and published in a way that ensures the protection of the identity of all participants of the education and education system, in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act". Otherwise, the title is above Article 10a - Database and a unique information system of education. The reason is that the legislator believes that through Articles 10a, 10b, 10v, etc. sufficiently arranged this area for the protection of personal data. We believe that there is no reason for me to say to the introductory member in this area that, when it comes to the protection of personal data, both the student, the parent, the fosterer, the teacher, that it will be and is in accordance with the law that has been in place for a year in our legal system, that everything is done in accordance with this law. What I can say and what is noted, the ministry has decided to more precisely regulate this area when it comes to data protection, is a major incident, it can also be called an affair, which occurred in late April, or at least then the public of Serbia found out about the incident, which is a terrible problem caused by the Ministry for Education of the AP Vojvodina. At that time, in late April, the public in Serbia realized that the Secretariat for Education was one of the suspicious competitions, because it turned out that the company was not even registered, because it was entrusted to a foreign company named or called "Dubl Ju di – double her soft", a multi-million-dollar business. So it seems to me that the company is mixed property, whether it's a Hungarian-American firm. I remind you again that this firm wasn't even registered the moment she was assigned a job. In fact, the company was given the right to have and control the school database on students, parents and teaching staff, which could have enabled it, for example. to provide information to students through text messages and to charge them. When the public learned this and learned the Data Protection Trustee, he ordered the Regional Secretariat to immediately close all access to the databases from local and external networks and to delete within 10 days from that personal data database, and it was a database of nearly 200,000 personality data, some 75,000 data on pupils, and the other data were related to parents and the curricula. I know there's been a criminal trial here, to find out that this firm didn't have its own server at the time, but that this data was on another server. So this incident or a terrible affair, which is at some point, and it could now be said to be entering quite a bit of uncertainty when it comes to this area, so parents and teachers are rather reluctantly now accessing the fulfillment of the various data required by the school. Of course, the school has always had and collected certain data, which is perfectly normal, but it is not normal for a parent to think about where his personal data will be found, who will be available and how these data will continue to be available. In fact, I started to ask one question – are these databases really closed too, and whether the Ministry or the Personal Data Protection Trustee can today guarantee these people whose data were found in that database, that they are not being abused or that they will not be abused? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58150	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the amendments to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. My amendment refers to Article 4 where I asked that the said member of the law be deleted from the provision: "the external evaluation of the institution". This is what I was looking for, first of all, for the reason that I am the term "external evaluation of an institution" is not clear enough, it is also unnecessary to me, because it is in some way an immeasurable category. You rejected this amendment and said in a statement that the amendment is rejected for the reason that the external evaluation of the institution is provided for by law. I agree that perhaps formally-legal it is the correct reason to refuse the amendment. However, I was just asking for an amendment to delete it from the law. If you had adopted this amendment and erased this thing, then the matter would have been clear in itself. But you haven't adopted this amendment. Here you're saying that certain sublegal acts based on which internal and external evaluation is being carried out, but I know that there are some of them, but those who work in educational institutions, educational institutions, they don't get along very well with these sublegal acts and the complete records they predict. As far as these records are concerned, this law provides for too much records, especially when it comes to students, or members of educational institutions, because there are a number of unnecessary data. The data sought there can be misused by various factors in institutions, because if you have a complete social picture of every student or protégé, then you will always find someone to abuse you for various reasons, if nothing else, so that you may be able to do yourself some sort of counterservice or something like that. While I have taken the floor and Mr. Minister Zarko Obradovic is present here, let me point out some more problems that arise, above all in enrolment in high school. I know that today and tomorrow is the lecture of paperwork at those schools where the students got to be enrolled. However, you must know that this problem exists for both students and their parents. It is that this is not prescribed during this ministry, it is something that has been inherited, but an unnecessary deadline for laying, filling out wishes, filing complaints on the results of the admission exam, enrolment, etc. Sometime on June 23rd or 24th, the students laid down the reception, and only today, 20 days after taking the entrance, are they enrolled. These 20 days, believe me, their parents are in a situation where they're constantly terrified of whether their children are going to be enrolled in this school or that school, especially in the school they wanted. I would also ask the present minister and his associates to consider for the next school year whether it is necessary for this deadline to stretch this far. Sometime on May 27th, the students of the eighth grade graduated from primary school. Here, today is July 13th, and tomorrow is another day of enrolment, July 14th, and then we have two or three later days for those who are unscheduled, so, almost a month, that process is running. In this way, the students are taken away from their leave. They're formally on vacation, but they can't relax, because they don't know if they've been admitted, whether they're enrolled, and they're children at the most sensitive age. So, one of my appeals is to the minister and to all of you who are cooperating with him, to consider for the next school year that this deadline for the admission exam and the enrolment of students should be summed up in a way that is somewhat shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58152	The 4th amendment was filed by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dr. Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58153	Carefully, although the government’s answers were unusually late, we read the answers to all our proposed amendments, and that caution may have lasted about ten minutes. Just for so long, someone who signed the amendments on behalf of the government for reasons of rejection in the way it was explained and with at least 10% of the tenacity needed to pre-meditate an amendment, I would see that he made a mistake many times. So, for the sake of the public, we have to explain why we've been looking for changes, specifically here in paragraphs 2 and 4. We generally know that as MPs, we cannot change the roof law, bearing the way it is meant for this law to be implemented, but we can intervene with amendments to make the law clearer and more enforceable for those who apply it. That's exactly what we wanted to do by changing attitudes 2 and 6. We have been given an explanation, which is generally for this session, for this law, for this minister, we have received answers from those who have read our amendments, even on the surface, just saying that what we have written is a good solution and that it already contains a solution that the law proposes is completely sustainable, here is evidence. In Section 2, we asked to define in a clearer way what personal data, data on beings, participants in teaching. We just rephrase attitude 2, so we know who we're taking health data from, who we're not taking from, who we're socializing from, who we're being taken from. So, just rephrase. You replied in your explanation that this had already been numbered and subsequently broken down. Why wouldn't it be rephrase? Do we really want to do in attitude 2 to see whom we will establish health status for children and students? As it is written, it seems that we will work on everyone’s health status and foster care and parents, etc. We've only changed it and connected it to one of the allies to make it clearer. It is even worse that in attitude 6, which we have also reformed, you wrote – to determine the health status of children and students, data is collected based on an assessment of needs. So to determine someone’s condition, you need to assess the need for additional social or other support. Be careful of the illogical attitudes you give. We have written – the health condition is determined on medical records, relevant, not which, not to count them, therefore, based on documentation, and an assessment of the needs based on this health condition. It's just a joke of faith, a reverse order in that same article, probably the same number of words has, too, only the notes of provisions and allies have been changed. That's denied. To make it worse, in your answer you convince our reasons. You are saying that, with regard to amendments to Article 10b, point 6 proposed by the amendment, we show that health conditions and children and students evaluate health institutions. That's what we wrote, you just didn't want to read, and the commission determined the need to provide additional visions of help. Of course, we wrote that. You've turned down ours, given our good reasoning as your own and a simple galamitia which says that you obviously with high tenacity intend to refuse the amendment you don't know how to do it. You better refuse in a simple sentence – the amendment is rejected, the house is ignored, for an unknown reason, rather than in this way you reject it and explain it. We don't care that you accept it at all if you don't, but we want to mark today the ways in which you read and with which, conditionally speaking, you interpret our proposals that only intended to correct the law as they did. It's not deviating from any frame, except one, and it's thickening you into the concept. There will be orders, there you will see, and everyone in Serbia will understand what you refused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58154	MP Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58155	First of all, I am sorry that we do not have the opportunity in our Rules of Procedure to have representatives of the committee and the rapporteurs present themselves in the debate in particular, because all committees hold special sessions to declare the amendments they have submitted. I will generously use the time of the parliamentary group to say a few sentences about what the Education Committee brought yesterday. The Committee accepted 12 amendments, of the 56 amendments, to the extent that they were submitted, which the government has proposed to accept. Also, most votes were rejected by all the amendments the government proposed to reject. I do not speak for myself, personally I think that, by the way, a good number of amendments could be accepted, one number of the DSS parliamentary group, but also other parliamentary groups submitted to the text of the law. In addition, the Committee proposed and adopted seven amendments. I must say immediately that six of these amendments are actually amendments that have been formally rejected, and submitted by the various MPs, where some minimum correction to the government's suggestion was to be made. Six such amendments were adopted by the Committee. The seventh one, and it is good that it is proposed, is an amendment that solves, you will not believe, for 40 years an open legal unresolved issue, which is that special schools dealing with the education of extremely talented children, schools of special interest for the Republic of Serbia, give them the opportunity to engage in university teachers, professors and those who are analogue knowledge in scientific institutions, for teaching, with the approval of the minister. I think it's a good thing that this problem is finally solved, after 40 years, since that problem exists, actually 44. That's what the board did yesterday. I remain on the stand that another number of amendments by the MPs could be accepted with a little goodwill, because it was, now I speak more as a professor, and less as an MP, I think there were very good solutions and good proposals by and the DSS parliamentary group, but also other parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58156	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58157	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the DSS Group has tabled an amendment to what you call Article 10v item 7. By the way, I'm not going to say it just because I think so, I know that there were words here when we tried to expand such things, this is one of the laws that came here with these letters a, b, v, g, that there were very many, very many comments from some here from the ruling majority, but it's really very hard to follow, it's especially hard to write the amendments, because in knocking this b Cyrillic into v etc, so that we typed wrongly, instead of b we typed v. In this seventh position it stands out like this: "the nearer conditions and way of leading the collection, input, updates, availability of data protection that is being entered into the register, public documents and other issues of importance for keeping records, issuing public documents, prescribed by the minister responsible for the tasks of education, in the text of the minister". Nothing is disputed, the minister determines both the conditions and methods of managing, collecting, entering, updating and availability of data, but it is disputed to prescribe data protection because it is the responsibility of one other ministry and another minister. When I spoke in principle, I said it was okay to finally get this area settled. counterpart Donka Banovic spoke very specifically about a case that upset the public of all Serbia when what happened in Vojvodina happened, but we really have no comment on whether it is necessary. Of course it's necessary. It's very necessary. All kinds of data are being collected. It's very important that parents are protected. From the moment the child goes to preschool to finish high school, they give the same data a thousand times. A thousand times they ask their parents to sign this or that. All these data must be very well protected, especially the data on underage children must be well protected, and these data are actually those that are very quickly and very misused, because each of us parents is very inclined to respond automatically when something comes from school because we consider it to be a parent's obligation to take care of their child. As far as we're concerned, there's nothing questionable about the data and how they have to be protected, but we are disputed that the jurisdiction of one minister, one ministry, is being taken over by another ministry, because in that case experience always says one thing. When two, three, five are in charge of something, that area remains unprotected. That is why we think it is very important to leave this area to be governed by a law that is already regulated, controlled and protected by citizens and a trustee for information of public importance, and to remain in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government or whatever you have added. That's the intensity we wanted to intervene with this amendment. Since the laws are coming to us as they arrive to us and to arrive by having one weekend and a half hours after that to arrange a serious job like changing and supplementing this law, I apologize for what we've done here. We wrote "data protection," even though all we wanted to do was erase the word "protection." As far as we're concerned, the board was right and it took the right to rephrase our amendment to be accepted. That's not questionable from our point of view. We really wanted to do something for this law. That's what we wanted to do, without making amendments that are well-intentioned, as some say, because there is no well-intentioned amendment, at least as far as the DSS parliamentary group is concerned. We're interested in quality amendments that fix the law. We don't recognize the well-intentioned and unfavorable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58158	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education, tabled an amendment to Article 4. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the legislator of this law would say that the purpose of our amendment is, and since we have just made changes in that sense, we would say the objective of our amendment, the aim of our amendment is that the language of this article and the title above it is Article 10v of Article 1, we bring it into line with the Serbian language and what the spirit of Serbian language represents. The purpose of the processing of data shall be to indicate the superscription above Article 10v. I don't know if it sounds like it, but when someone tells me "the purpose of data processing", it's in the title, it just sounds like a ruckus. You say "the purpose of data processing is to provide indicators." We think it's much simpler, and everything remains the same, to be "the target of data processing" and to be the title, and then the first part of the attitude is, "The processing of data is done for the purpose of providing indicators to monitor and cover children." So this is about a pure language change that needs to improve the language quality of the law because the law, apart from giving one professional approach to one matter, must also be linguistically consistent with the state that brings it. The purpose of our amendment is to preserve the Serbian language and not to make terribly ugly coins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58160	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, ministers, representatives of the government, as you have heard, MPs of the DSS have submitted 19 amendments to the text of this law, and only one of our amendments has been accepted. Our intention was to improve this text of the law. We're sorry you didn't accept the number of amendments we submitted. Otherwise, the amendment refers to Article 4 and now Article 10d, whose legal provision is – the use of data. It is complemented by the amendment of visiting counterpart Donka Banovic, who is talking about data protection. I'll read this text of the law for the sake of the public. In this regard, Article 10d of Article 3 states: "the nearer conditions and means of establishing a single information system for education, collecting, entering, updating, availability and data protection and other issues of importance for the system are prescribed by the minister". With this amendment, we wanted to help you, Mr. Minister. There was probably a mistake in Section 3 and we wanted to delete the words "data protection", because it was part of the work of the second ministry. My distinguished colleagues said that a year ago we passed one Law on the Protection of Personal Data and now we have two parallel systems, one regulated by the Ministry of Education, and the other by the Ministry of Local Self-Government. It would be good for you to reconsider your decision and accept these amendments, and I hope that's how it will be if you listen to me, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58162	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group tabled on this proposal 15 amendments, four of which were accepted in an integrated form immediately at the outset, two of which relate to the area of the database it edits, among other things, to Article 4 of this bill. In this regard, counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic also submitted the amendment that was accepted. It is good that the amendment of Mr. Aleksandr Martinović and the amendments of her colleague Gordana Pop-Lazić were also accepted, because we believe that they improved the bill's proposal in the sense of clarifying who the data from the database refer to, with it not clear whether the information on interest and professional preparation, employment, license, salary and promotion in the service concerned only the staff of the institution or of the parents, guardians and others, by contributing to making it more clear here and to Article 10ð of the text that reads: "in a time period which provides for the smooth work and up-to-date of the database of the single information system of education", it is not exactly accurate, so that it is good to accept the amendment that this deadline, which we hope is sufficient to enter new data. If it weren't for that, then there would be time left that if certain beliefs were to be taken out and brought to correct the database, that deadline couldn't be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58164	National MP Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58165	In light of why this amendment to Article 10 ð was not accepted, the government has accepted the amendment of counterpart Aleksandr Martinovic and that is quite all right. But because of the public to say that the amendment submitted by my colleague Zeljko Tomic is going in the same direction, it may even be better than Mr Martinovic, because it is more precise because he says "the base is being updated on the day of the change or by 30 days at the latest". We suggested that the deadline be to update the base within 30 days, because we thought that the proposer in the proposal of this Article 10 ð had left a completely unclear deadline and that there might then be interpreted in various ways and that there was abuse. Namely, the proposal for this article states that the records, i.e. on the basis of the data, are updated on the day of the change, and extremely within the deadline, and then this is your deadline, the proposal for a deadline, which provides smooth work and the update of the database and the unique information system of education. I'm glad you accepted this amendment and realized that what stands here in the proposal is absolutely not a deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58166	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Donka Banovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58167	In Article 5 of the proposal, which speaks of Article 12 and the position of the 7th roof law, the ministry has proposed an amendment in such a way as to determine the work compensation and the level of compensation for the work of the two councils that exist. The Proposer proposes - funds for the work of the Council, as set out in Article 1, shall be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which otherwise applies to the National Educational Council, and members of the National Educational Council shall be entitled to a fee for work in the height established by the National Assembly, and members of the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults, therefore, this is the second advice, that they will receive a fee at the height determined by the Government. We felt that, and we proposed by amendment, there was no need for the members of these two different councils in different ways to find compensation for work that is very responsible, difficult, complicated and demanding work in both councils. You replied to me that the National Assembly has no right to determine compensation for members of the board for professional education and adult education, because members of that council are appointed by the Government, and it is the Government who should and should determine the amount of compensation for these people. We think that, you may be formally right, but you're essentially not. It is equally difficult and responsible work in both councils, with the National Educational Council having more members and there is no need for this to be determined in two different ways, let alone their fees to be different. What I hope you're thinking, since you didn't accept the amendment and it's not good that you didn't, but I suppose then you'll be handling the National Assembly's decision to compensate the members of the National Educational Council and then that compensation to the people who work on this second council will be no different. Since the Minister's nodding, let's just take his word for it and then that's how it's gonna be. It was better if you had accepted the amendment, so that solution would have entered the law and we wouldn't have to see whether you were nodding or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58168	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58169	Thank you, Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment actually applies to Article 6 or to Article 13 of the Old Law. It's a composition of the National Educational Council. The law states that – for a member of the National Educational Council, a person elected, elected or appointed to a function in the State Authority, a body of territorial autonomy, or local self-government, a person elected to the authority of a political party or body of the management of an institution, a person employed by the Ministry of Education has written, and now you delete it, the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, the Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education, the Institute for Teachers and Education, as well as the Municipal Educational Instructor. What you wanted was to erase this "enlightenment" and remain just a ministry. You resented us there for erasing the words "data protection," and you're erasing something much more significant here. We felt that it must remain the Ministry of Education, just as clarity and precision is always the first reason and the first condition in order for some law in practice to come to life and not to be interpreted, as lawyers like to say, but to be clear to us who are not lawyers, and we have to apply the law. What you said to me was interesting. You say - the amendment should not be accepted for reasons under the Ministry Act, "Official Messenger" No. 16/11, the name of the ministry changed to the Ministry of Education and Science, and the name reduced in Article 4. It's a bill of law. So, after this surgical intervention of yours by the government when everything else is the same, you just repacked into a small number of ministries, you got a new name, and that's a familiar name for me – the Ministry of Education and Science, but simply, does that mean that every time the Ministry of Education is formed and it gets another name, then it has to change every time they change and supplement the law? When you tell the Ministry of Education, it will always remain the Ministry of Education in that part. That's why I find our amendment very meaningful. I don't want to talk about how we didn't get an answer to what we asked you, when it comes to the composition of the National Educational Council, to interpret why the History Society in Article 13(5), you say in one article who makes up all the composition of the National Educational Council and you list in point 5. – one member from the ranks of teachers, educators and professional associates, representatives of the Association of Teachers of Serbia, the Association of Teachers of the Republic of Serbia, the Association of Serbian Language and Literature, the Association of Foreign Languages of Serbia, the Society of Mathematicians, the Serbian-Geographic Society, the Society of Physicians, and then the Society of Historians. Everyone who deals with this area, I've got one quite a number of documents from where, say there's only one Society of historians, and there's no other society. It's an NGO and it's registered as an NGO. It's just impossible that something that's a completely different area, so a non-governmental organization, now has the same status as the only society of historians. This society of historians has been reregistered according to the law which is valid, which is valid. Only in historians, so all the other societies are numbered, will you change each time, to be two societies, three societies, four societies, and all have the same status? If that's the case, I don't know if the number of members of the National Council will keep increasing? I claim that a single society is a historian and an NGO, which has its own activity a field of work, but it is not a society of historians. Thank you and please answer for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58170	The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58171	This is one of the qualitative changes that we wanted, not to be rhetorical changes, changes in synonyms or commas, but really a new change that might require the amendment of the Law on Science and Technological Development and the Law on Scientific Research, because we wanted to introduce this proposal to practice that a number of members of the Council are mentioned here, within this law, it was now a ministry, therefore no longer the Ministry of Education, as well as the former Ministry of Science and Technological Development, which again has its National Council on Science and Technological Development, there are 16 members and here we have 64, that's about 80 people who will be paid out of the budget. You here, just as you wrote in your explanation, have seen the possibilities of the budget for the following year and defined the considerable funds for 21 members of the Council. All of it, unfortunately, will it say whether it was determined by the government or by the government, mostly by the government and by the government and by the MPs, but also by the citizens of Serbia. In the way it is proposed, it will be that every member of the Council will receive about 215,000 per month in gross, and that is probably the personal income you have, which you, who rarely have an MP, if there is no additional function, in the net amount, is something that is a very, very high paid function in Serbia for everyday work, for full-time, even for such working hours as MPs in the Serbian Parliament, it is very high, with all applications, rarely anyone can reach that amount. Why is it that someone who comes once a month or in three months, finally four times a month, but four times a month should have such a high salary? Our amendment went in the direction of that, that for both of these advices, you would probably, rather have read the amendment like that and say – that would require repairs in the second law, so that to fix what not, to suggest that these people who come into these councils pay travel expenses, daily fees and fees for what they have lost to earning at their workplace, because they all come in front of someone: organisations, associations, institutions there, have a working relationship, so many of what they get here will be bigger than salaries where primary schools or high school or special schools have. What does that mean now? So nothing but a long-taught manipulative that you choose your own political staff, you spend your spiritual vertical on a base and in your organic facilities, in various institutes like this, promising them high wages, loyalty and everything else that goes into it, and you don't ask, and you don't think that someone there is going to receive three and a half average salaries in Serbia. How many jobs, as much as from that one, the only budget for education, part of the budget for education, with that 50 and some million for this council, and probably twice as many national-enlightenmental, and probably the same for scientific and technological and plus powerful commissions, and plus everything else that goes into the council, and when all of this is paid out of the budget, it's hundreds of millions of dinars. Why don't these people have little sense of honor, of trust that they've been chosen, because they're worth it, that someone suggested them as a valuable category, so they came and got the money, and someone else who went to a meeting at the Ministry, the medicine commission went to people and they didn't get anything, I heard, Tomica gave them nothing. Some pay for the trip, some journal, some difference in the living room, etc. What would this have to do with special treatment? This is an amendment that is really fundamentally intruding into this as you have imagined, in general, into a concept that you have already set two or three years ago and more. I'm glad that we're the only political party, which is exactly like this amendment of the terms, because of course, I don't intend to comment on amendments to other political parties, or their qualifications on it, I think that everyone is on a unique task, to do as much as we can to change the law, so that when we find out that some of it wasn't right, so I think that each one, this is deeper than a substitute for the formal illogicality that exists in the law, which is what we often find. This is deeper intervention, but I expected something that would be an acceptance as evidence, that you made a correction on the obligation you have both in front of all international and domestic institutions and in front of the government itself, to save the administrative costs, to fuck the payment to the administration. But you didn't think about it that way, you even said in response that, as you wrote this simply amazingly, what you put into this group of ours, as a postponement of the competent authorities, that is, the Parliament, or the Government, in view of the state of the budget. Now, the one who wrote knew that the next budget would have 52 million, that 54 million, that year 50, and how many millions in 2013, for these salaries. Think carefully about this. I know you'll never change, but know that I remember this proposal and that in a political campaign we're really going to use one of the direct evidence that you didn't want rationalization, which was obvious and possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58172	Mr. Pocurica, just a question. The time you've spent so far from the time of power or the time of the group? Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58173	Comrade Pokurica, I'm sorry you weren't in a position to hear my explanation about those expenses. On the Committee on the Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I explained that it was a mistake and I took responsibility for the mistake we made, and I am sorry that you did not hear the same explanation when I spoke in the Assembly, you were not simply present in that part of my presentation, otherwise if you were present, you would hear what I had already said to the Committee, that the funds mentioned in the context of this law refer to members of the National Educational Council and members of the National Council for Medium Professional Education and Adult Education, that it is gross weight. Otherwise, the truth is, here are colleagues from the DSS mentioned that when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia determines compensation for members of the National Educational Council, which has 41, then the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will start from 1 January 2012. For years, it serves as a basis for determining the amount of compensation. You know, just for your own good, if you use the campaign to keep you out of an awkward situation again, use data that isn't accurate. Members of the National Educational Council now have compensation, it seems to me 41 thousand dinars net, president a little bit more and you yourself consider the sum, so your claim is not correct about the amount of compensation of members of the National Educational Council. In any case, when the National Assembly determines compensation for members of the National Educational Council, it will be the basis for us in the Government to determine the amount of compensation for members of the Council for secondary vocational education and adult education, and the justification set out in the Law is that it is a mistake because it includes costs, both in gross amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58174	The word is Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58175	Of course, that mistake was not my fault, we wrote the amendment at the time when you didn't have time to explain it to us in the way you explained it at the session. I wasn't on the board because I was preparing for other amendments at the time because everything you do is very express and everyone doesn't have to be, and that doesn't mean if you are, this is about the actual principle, the principle that budgets are shared by any government decision, by any committee, whether they're going to be the Assembly as a salary, as a fixed monthly income, and we're telling you when it comes because it came to be paid. Let's make it four, so is that small? So how many doctors have a general practice salary, does forty thousand have a teacher in high school for everyday work. Do you know how much that means, that's exactly what I'm telling you? If he came to the session he'd get money for that day, not to have an advance fixed second salary because he already has a job. That's the essence of our amendment if that's a mistake, say it publicly, I'm pulling everything and nobody, but as far as I know, it's the monthly compensation they're going to have here. Where someone was wrong, when he wrote and whether or not he united both advices, or at the time of the amendment, it was not known to us as a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58176	Mr. Minister, again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58177	It's not a dispute, Mr. Poscurica, which is why, it seems to me, I'm very taxing on the order of events and we're just talking about what you didn't know. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respectively, will determine the amount of compensation to members of the National Educational Council. I was just reacting, to explain to the MPs who didn't hear it, to take up their share of responsibility for what it says in the material, but to draw attention to you, too, since you mentioned that in the election campaign you would use it as an argument, that you would not use it because you would be disaved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58178	Here you go, Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58179	Indeed, I don't think you're going to be able to do that in any way by their media restrictions to forbid it being spoken of because you yourself admitted to giving them monthly appointments. So I'm not going to say 200,000 gross, but I'm going to say 80,000 gross, that's the only difference that's going to be used in the campaign. You don't pay them arrivals at the session, you give them another fixed salary. That's the point. Say it isn't so and the misunderstanding is smooth. If so, so be it. People will get another paycheck and the end of the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58180	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58181	Mr. Poscurica, you said it was about three average salaries, that's about 100,000 plus gross, and that's far more than you're talking about right now. I'm saying this for your sake, so you won't be in a position to be disavowed. And you say what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58182	Thank you. Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58183	I'm done with this. So there's nothing for me to disabling, instead of three and a half, I'm going to say two average salaries, because the average salary is 35,000. I'll say one-and-a-half salary, but I'll say another one-and-a-half fisque. Here, citizens of Serbia, I'm sorry, they won't get a second salary in the amount of three of your averages, they'll get a little more than your average salary plus your salaries in schools, colleges, etc. Here, now dissuade that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58184	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education, tabled an amendment to Article 5. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The word is Mrs. Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I sincerely hope that I may make you change your mind and accept this amendment, which applies to Article 27, or amendment to Article 8 which regulates Article 27, paragraph 3, where at the end of the text, the point is replaced by a comma and they add the words "in accordance with the criteria and standards prescribed by the minister". We asked for this change to be complemented by the change: "On the basis of the obtained opinion of the Ministry of Health". It's about the intrusion. The amendment was rejected by reason – The amendment should not be accepted for the reason that the new concept of inclusive education accepts a social model that implies preserving the capacity of children and students, that the child or student should be supported, raise his capacities and find what the child can. The inclusion of the Ministry of Health would put an accent on a medical approach based on access to treatment and defining what a child or student cannot do and on what is a problem. I'm afraid that if we're talking about practice and inclusion in practice, exactly what you've given in an explanation for the rejection of amendments disproves what the essence of the inclusion is. So it has to be known on the medical side, right on that side, what a child can, what can't and what approach on that side we can education and pedagogical design by building his social relationship in the social environment with other children. It's a very sensitive approach. Children can be very cruel when they are different, children are very hard to suffer when they are different and we want to teach them equality, solidarity and humanity in action and the approach of a different species. So far, it's been solved in education in another way. There's now an inclusion. She's a very difficult task. Anyone who's not in education won't understand it so easily, but who is in education and who is, by the unfortunate circumstances, and the parent of a child who's the subject of inclusion, knows what I'm talking about. So it's impossible, believe me, you're going to have to change it later or someone else to change it, or maybe you're going to do it out of the law, but it would be good if the law meant for the health ministry to give their opinion in a case like this, because they're very sensitive categories. That opinion is not binding, but the Minister of Education, who is most often not a doctor but an excellent educator, will help to specify these very standards and criteria and sign them. Because the moment he signs them, he stands behind it and the whole Serbian education stands behind it in its practical functioning. For all this, I felt that this would be very important to you in this article of law. The inclusion will be much more and long subject to an analysis of education, educational laws, educational practices. It's one of the hardest steps we've ever taken in education, but in education, nothing can change easily or quickly. In education, the least you can do is trade time, because time doesn't work for us, time is running mercilessly fast, and it doesn't give us anything back, it doesn't give us a spare, it makes us immediately, at the same time, to be practical and wise. That's why I think you could accept this amendment, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58186	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Education Committee have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. There's no answer for word. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic – Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Vojić – Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58187	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article nine is actually an old member of 40. Now you're saying, the Ministry keeps records, in the following text, of the register, which includes institutions that carry out the work of education and education, if extended work, then other organisations and natural persons who carry out jobs in pre-school education, etc., then prescribed or selected programs of vocational training, teachers, educators, professional associates who have been issued a license for teachers, directors who have been granted a licence, secretaries who have passed a professional exam for the secretary, and you say, the register is public and is kept permanently. We felt it was much better to specify in what form we actually need to be kept and we suggested that it be kept permanently in electronic form. I see you've accepted an amendment that's broader, so you've written in writing and electronic form. We don't mind. What we think is actually good is that there is a precise in the law of the particulars in which the register will be kept. Of course, it involves all data protection fences, which must also be in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Personality Data completely safe and secure. What I didn't realize, so I have to apologize to Mr. Minister, who also nodded when I spoke earlier about historian societies, the only one in this composition of the National Educational Council, who showed me and told me that there were two societies of historians. I have to apologize, because I haven't thought any deeper than I hastily realized that there must be one society that is guided by objective scientific truth. It's obvious, now that it's occurred to me, that the unique history of the region will be written, that there must be an alternative society that can accept that there is another approach. That it's probably a project that has to be introduced into other laws now, how you ministers have been very nice and precise and introduced here. So you're right to enter what you've entered, only I didn't understand. Looks like they didn't understand the others either. I'd like to share my enlightenment with them. By the way, I hear there are some other textbooks at this point under question, so just so far I've managed myself as someone who works at school and who, after all, has personally used textbooks and I take care of how textbooks look, what they are, qualitatively and quantitatively, that they have only so far succumbed to scientific truth. I now see that they are subject to a politically correct language, because I see that the textbooks of psychology of the truly distinguished author Bora Kuzmanovic are today placed on the pillar of shame. It's not about whether his scientific approach is predicated or not, it's about whether it's politically correct. I would pray to all of us in this room, because we are serious people and responsible people, headed by you, Mr. Minister, who are for education, for our children very much in charge, really start to do education in the way that education and deserves it, and these children deserve it. Avoid political correctness in textbooks and stick to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58188	The word has a minister, Mr. Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58189	Thank you. I have no choice but to share the Law on textbooks and other teaching means for MPs to have the opportunity to get acquainted with how it is written and approved, or how the textbook used in the course is approved. We at the Ministry, I have to repeat it several times, it seems that since it can't be heard, none of the people from the Ministry, any individual from the Bureau, so the minister doesn't affect the contents of the textbooks. The procedure for publishing textbooks is, the author writes, three professional competences, three people who are hired by the Institute write an expert review, if it is positive to go to the National Educational Council, if it is negative, the National Council is also getting acquainted. They meet both authors and publishers and have the right to seek additional, so-called. a double review and that, by choice, again, the scientifically competent people who will write what they think about the textbook, and then the National Council should make a final decision. The Minister only signs the National Educational Council's decision. I think it's a good solution and it gives priority to exactly what any person, who as another angle of view of the content of the textbooks, because everyone has the right to criticise, and what they criticise doesn't mean that they're right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58190	Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58191	This amendment essentially applies to Article 54, since it's a long moment, I'd just like to briefly explain what this is about. It's a management body, it's a school board of primary and secondary schools, and it's known that there are nine members of that board, three from the staff, three from the parents' order and three from the local self-government unit. Since the Assembly of the Local Self-Government Unit and selects all of these, they themselves should then elect the chairman of the Committee, or the managing authority. Now we come specifically to the amendment, and it concerns secondary vocational schools and management bodies, nine members, three from the staff, three from the parents' order, and so far it's been a solution for these three from the local self-government unit to be one from the social partners, but this change requires them to be three. We have submitted an amendment that retains the existing solution. What exactly is this about? Local self-government units are checking the procedure and whether a proposal for three employees has been legally made, whether a proposal for three representatives of parents has been legally made, but this procedure has been carried out by the local self-government unit three representatives. There are criteria in some municipalities, and there are no criteria in some municipalities. In essence, since all nine choose units of local self-government, everything is left to the political will of parties who exercise power in the local self-government unit. We can hide it any way we want and with any terms, but that's right. When said, three representatives of the social partners, one representative is thought to be an employer, one union representative, and one state representative should. Who would represent the state at the level of the local self-government unit? If he's a representative of the local self-government unit, then he's a representative of the local self-government unit, not a representative of the state. These terms with our social partners don't essentially mean anything, just a cover. I remember once given, 30 years ago, at a time of self-management, when it was something different, for some educational profiles, for some factories that exist in some place, there were no schools. The request of the economy was in no way reached by the school authorities, and they continued to educate some of the staff that could not be employed, and the deficit staff could not be provided, because there are not even schools for a sufficient number of students. That made sense at the time. Does it make sense today? Come on, tell me what is the educational profile that needs to be specially provided, and that should be the expression of social partners as representatives of the managing body, in some place, when from the big and heavy industry, the rest of the francules of privatisation and the main word leads to those with ties and bags and with selected membership cards. There's an ordinary story here. What it looks like when these representatives are elected to fill the school board, to ensure some domination, probably because, in the divided jurisdiction between the state and local self-government, when it comes to primary and secondary education, everyone wants to move away from the job, especially from the job where money should be allocated. The Republic traditionally has no means, and the local self-government unit considers it an intrusion, because it is neither a plumbing nor a sewer, nor roads, and it can be laundered. You see, in Belgrade, you have these seven kilometers of at least 25 construction sites, each year the same asphalt changes, in Belgrade people only eat asphalt. How can that be pointless and what does it look like? Here's an example, Mr. Novakovic, don't worry, I won't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure, we've got Dr. Dragutin Radosavljevic's e-mail. You proposed him to be a member of the Securities Committee. A few days ago there was a principle debate here and he says like this, broke me radicals, proved that I don't meet the conditions for the election, and I ask you to understand, because I don't want to be a candidate and withdrawing my candidacy at this point, and the government doesn't want to change it, but in the voting day you're going to choose him to be a member of the Securities Committee, he has to be there in a working relationship, and now he's the director of the Administration. When this is happening here, then you can imagine what's going on in some place, especially in places where there are objectively problems, because in some place you're going to find social partners, social partners. Find representatives of the social partners in Black Treva, though, there is no SSS, perhaps not a bad example, but find another place where there is a professional school, and find social partners. Find social partners in the White Palace, because you know what they say, the Belopalans, since we didn't have craft schools, we all had to finish high school and colleges, and that's why we have the highest number of intellectuals per capita. Now the Belipalans are also in Nis, Prokuplje, Belgrade and everywhere. It probably has something to do with a Belopalan woman, and I know she's following a transmission, so I welcome him, Mr. Obradovic, Danil Z Markovic, writes books, deals with Daca's science, otherwise these young MPs don't know, that's the one, that's the Parola - Dacho care, don't give money. At a time when the Democrats instigated the rebellion of the youth, students, professors against the regime, and then the saying remained, however, Daca will likely be one of the best ministers of education ever. There's a nice saying left, an exact saying - Dacho Tsar, don't give the money. You see, Dacha didn't give money, and education was an extremely good job in those difficult years. With this amendment, and if you accept it or not, nothing really changes, and we have been given the opportunity to point to this politically pointless domination of local self-government units. As far as the term is concerned, you can use any term. You use these terms to make a quality distinction between words that in practice mean nothing or have the same meaning. So socialism, self-government, democracy, dictatorship, it's all the same. What used to be self-government in schools is now like the flow of democracy in schools, and from hollow to empty when poured, it's like a number multiplied by zero, and that's the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58192	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond have tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 11a be added after Article 11. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Education adopted the amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education tabled an amendment to Article 13. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58193	In the original proposal, in Article 13, which amends the current Article 105, the proponent believes that the words should be left out: "the choice of textbooks", and this is about the student, student parliament and the things parliaments can decide in schools. In fact, you felt that student parliaments were not qualified enough and that they did not possess expertise so that they could give their opinion on the quality of textbooks. Now I hear from Mr. Novakovic that the board has made an amendment and that this article 13 is completely deleted. You've made another mistake, and now I'm going to tell you why. Because you haven't seriously read the amendment we submitted to Article 13. So, your reasoning and your original intention, when you say that student parliaments are not qualified enough to give a professional opinion on the quality of a textbook, that's absolutely correct. However, if you had read our amendment correctly, we have suggested here that the student parliament can give its opinion and decide on the quality of the selected textbooks, or those textbooks that the professor or school has already chosen. Students in some period, a year, two or three, that would be a matter of agreement, can give their opinion, i.e. absolutely professionally and clearly, to evaluate that textbook, or how it was shown in practice. How will you measure the quality of a textbook if you don't ask teachers, of course, but above all, students? And that's the student parliament, and that's how it's supposed to work. Now, how did you erase this "determination of the choice of textbooks"? Now you've left that space completely unclear again. You should also be able to say – student parliaments, which otherwise exist in the seventh and eighth grade of primary school, which are formed in all secondary schools, should at least function, that they give their opinion on textbooks that are in use. If we think students can't do it, then we're wrong. There are studies that clearly and unequivocally say that and how students can excellently evaluate a textbook, regardless of who wrote it, etc. Sometimes you have someone who's considered a great expert in an area, but he's simply unable to write a good textbook for elementary school. For example, in these studies and surveys, students evaluated. new foreign language textbooks to fully suit them, to be very good and to assess them with high grades. Some textbooks aren't. So students are able to evaluate textbooks that they already use. So you should have accepted our amendment. Speaking of textbooks, the minister just told us that he would be forced to pass a law that was passed a few years ago on textbooks and teaching tools, or last year, maybe two years ago. I think it was the first in a set of laws the Ministry of Education proposed in the National Assembly. Let me remind you, we sitting here, all of us, and opposition and position, we took part in making that law, if anything, through amendments. We may not know all the link, when it comes to the choice of textbooks, but mostly we know the procedure. But you did not answer the basic question my colleague asked you – why are you equating the Society of Serbian historians with some society of historians registered as an NGO? There are many NGOs dealing with history. Then there aren't two, as you said, but there are many larger numbers. By calling it that, the society of historians has a long tradition and history, etc., and you say there are now two societies. There are countless organizations, a large number that deal with history. You haven't responded to anything you say there are two, and why is that other society brought to the same status and to the same level?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58194	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word is Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58195	Again a complicated story in terms of basic law, changes, our amendment, etc. I'll try to make it simple. Otherwise, this change is on the trail and the desire of the Ministry of Education to prevent these changes and additions from occurring in our schools, both primary and secondary schools, and to somehow try to repair the damage brought by the new 2009 law on the basis of the education and education system. It's a shame when it comes to student discipline, because that law has left room for the student to have a large number of unwarranted absences, I am now only talking about this one part, practically, which schools have faced, that there are a large number of absences and that school can't, I'll use an ugly word, punishment, to sanction, to, among other things, and because of that, the student ceases to be unwarranted from teaching. So this is the desire to remove that damage. But this, as you suggest, is again some sort of a mix of measures, because you've now mixed the parts of some law of the 1990s and now parts of this 2009 law, so now we have this mix. What are we suggesting here? We propose that the rule of students from the fifth to eighth grade of primary education and education and students of all classes of secondary education and education be assessed numerically during the semester, both the first and the second, as well as at the end of the first and the second term, and that this assessment affects the overall success, i.e. that the assessment from the rule becomes part of all assessments on the basis of which the overall success is calculated. Why do I say you made one mixture? You here suggest that during the term of the midterm, the rule is assessed in a descriptive way, and that only in the end it is estimated by an estimate, or by a numerical rate, and then that assessment would enter into that general success. We don't think that's good, that it shouldn't be during the school year that there's a descriptive evaluation. In fact, we don't even know why you suggested it, it's completely unclear. It takes the beginning of the school year to have a numerical score when it comes to success. It's one thing we resent and we don't think it's a good mix and it doesn't have any purpose. The second thing that we don't think is good is that you suggest that the numerical rating of government starts in sixth grade, so, sixth, seventh and eighth grade of primary school and later through high school. We suggest that this numerical evaluation begin from the fifth grade of primary school. You're telling us in your explanation that this is not a pedagogical justification - to move the limit of descriptive evaluation of student rule to a lower age line and to introduce a purely numerical assessment of government throughout the entire school year. Mostly you say it's not pedagogically justified. I know that you have a large number of educators and psychologists who are employed in your ministry, but of course this group that wrote this amendment has in its composition educators and psychologists. It can probably be about different pedagogical or psychological approaches. We believe that, especially since the fifth grade is difficult, children and students must have a large number of newspapers. It's just, it's a tough year. However, it can also be said for the seventh grade of elementary school, when some other items are obtained. The same can be said for the first grade of high school, which is also a revolution for a child from elementary school. Why do I think so? The assessment, among other things, is a motive for every student to really behave and to have a good record of conduct. It can be a motive for good and decent conduct at school. So we resent you two things. We ask you again to look at this amendment and accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58196	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58197	Dear Mr. Minister, the New Serbia parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 15 of paragraphs 1 and 2 to delete. You are in an explanation, referring to unwarranted absences, saying why this amendment should not be accepted, because you transferred the obligation exclusively to the parent, or guardian, that the justice of the student's absence. This is how we explained our amendment: "unless a new attitude is precise to justify the lack of students, point 7 is unnecessaryly deleted) which gives the possibility and obligation of students to justify themselves the absence of whom parents or guardians will have to declare themselves." There are circumstances in which it will not always be possible to do a parent or guardian, and it is unnecessary to delete this point. The proposed new position of this member precisely determines and reduces the possibility of abuse of the institute of lack of teaching. What is important to point out to this member of the law and enable this member of the law, in situations where a student who is a minor has the confidence of a class elder and has the authority in his educational environment that he is someone who can be left behind and declare himself, should be brought up by students and the ability to stand alone behind his absences. These are cases where a student does not have a parent or guardian or has a guardian who is unable to arrive at that moment, so he should not be further in the inability to justify his absence or that he has to lie to go to the doctor and bring some fictitious medical justification, etc. Therefore, the Institute of Trust in Justice should not be completely removed from the use of the disciples themselves. A class elder always knows who abuses or does not abuse. It is necessary to train students and this kind of honesty and responsibility to declare their absence, and subsequently to be informed by a parent or guardian. We're talking about these absences that are problematic. We are talking, fortunately, about a small number of students, a far smaller number of students who will benefit from this institute of unwarranted absences, or who will have damages from this kind of behavior, who will suffer later sanctions because of this kind of behavior. I say, you should always leave the possibility for those who are exceptional and who will properly treat their absences, that they too can be very open and honest and that their word has a specific weight, be respected, valued and right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58198	The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58199	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, our amendment refers to Article 15, under the previous law of Article 112 and refers to student obligations. This article lists all the obligations of the students, and the point is that Article 3 is added, and I will now read it, as our amendment is very attached to Section 3. He adds Article 3 which reads: "A student, a parent, or guardian of a student, is obliged to give timely justice to the absence of students and delivers complete and accurate contact information." I'm reading this for citizens who are following this review of the amendments. Our amendment to this article reads: "A student, a parent, or guardian of a student, is obliged to provide timely justice to the absence of a student and to provide complete and accurate information on the reasons for the absence, and if the reason for the absence of a student's condition, a confirmation of the doctor of a competent medical institution must be attached." We wanted it to be okay in this right of absence, which may be for reasons of competition, sports activities and those obligations arising from some activities of students, important to them and to school, but what is most often, this is a lack of health reasons, and it must also be one binding way for parents, guardians or students to be, and this is accompanied by the confirmation of the doctor's appropriate health care institution that the loss of class, i.e. a loss of several days for health reasons, should be regulated legally. In response to why you do not accept this amendment with this supplement, you say "an amendment should not be accepted, because a student who is sick does not necessarily have to and in any case ask for the help of a doctor". This sentence provides the possibility of calculator manipulation of children and parents, which is everyday and in every school. Whether it is material or repairing evaluations or written tasks, mostly students are missing from school in an appropriate way before written assignments. I'm not saying it's always their fault, maybe those weeks of interrogation are from multiple subjects, which means more effort for children, and then they, to come ready and fix the grade, have an excuse, as you said, where every student, parent or guardian can come and justify it and say he was sick. I don't want to go into health aspects, which are a disease or which is a mild illness that one student alone should do for a day, two or three at home, and that he heals himself, even though the drugs of all kinds, for temperature or flu, can be bought by pharmacies. As a doctor, I believe that any ill condition of any student, whether the first grade is a high school, requires appropriate therapy. This gives the ability to calculate and should not be used in this way, and this is in some way an adjustment and introduction to practice that the word parent or guardian is enough that the child is sick. Whenever there are such possibilities, where there are interpretations that are more flexible, it creates the possibility of "real manipulation", but calculations that are not good. It would be the same if I or anyone else hadn't gone to work for five days and told the director that we were sick, but we treated ourselves. Maybe it's not the right comparison, but that's it. We believe that in this part, it should also be a pedagogical moment and not put into the awkward situation of a class elder and a school, but that this part of the justice related to the condition of a student is put into law and thus gives the possibility and restriction that this part of the health and illness is misused in another way. Thank you. I've been using MPs' time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58200	The word has a minister, Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58201	Mr. Knezevic, the general act of the school has established time, i.e. within which a parent may appear as someone who justifies the absence of students from school. I'll just remind you that it's very difficult here, let me say, to establish some general rules regarding the doctor. If you remember last year when this flu was, the virus when he was harassing, when doctors publicly warned children that they could stay for up to three days at home, even if they didn't call the doctor, but only if they were to be under the supervision of their parents, and only if there were any symptoms that they thought might be flu symptoms, then the doctor only consults, so that the limit is very relative, and therefore the general acts of the school determine the deadline that serves as the basis when the parent appears, and after which period must be justified by the doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58202	The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. He has the word Mrs. Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58203	I'll use the time of the authorized representative of the group. This is exactly how we slowly and undetectedly entered an area called the rights of children and students, the obligations and responsibilities of students, that is, how the people who watched this said this is the area of student discipline. Between that 2009 law, which was called "terrorist students" we entered the second extreme, and in the principle debate I asked the Minister, and now I would like to be answered, since he obviously didn't answer me then, whether the effects of applying the 2009 law were followed, when looking at the area of missing students from classes, justified and unwarranted, because I have the results that these effects were devastating and that two years had been thrown into the wind someone had to answer for what? I'd like to get that comment, Minister. To me it is quite clear, research says that in Belgrade every average high school student from between 150 and 200 hours is missing, and we would do well to know how much information we have in Serbia, how many students who have a maximum of 35 unwarranted classes, which, as far as the DSS is concerned, were controversial in 2009, when the law was passed? But I have to say it again because, not because I'm malice, which I'm insinuately remembering everything that was in that year in 2009, but because I'm the first mother and the second man from school, and because I don't think anyone has the right to play with such a serious process as education and education, because these two processes at school are inseparable even though this law separates and even ranks which will be the first to be the second. So there were MPs of the ruling majority who were then in 2009 and how they praised the great amount of freedom given to students the possibility of having 35 unwarranted absences. Of course, the children used it very easily, even the parents commented, some phone messages were sent to me -- I didn't pass on to my son, you didn't have to, because as legends were passed on from generation to generation, generation of children who went to a high school class. So, simply, the damage has been done, I understand why it is now intervened in this direction, but that tightening of the criminal measures, when it comes to at least these unwarranted absences, is only going in that part that it is returning to what was until 2009, meaning up to 25 unwarranted absences. But we generally have one problem that opens up and I know it's hard to talk about because it's hard to track, first of all, and this problem is called - what we're going to do with justified absences. You here in article 112 of the old law, i.e. Article 13, are now stating the obligations of students, changing that attitude and saying this: "A student, a parent, or guardian of a student, is obliged to provide timely justice to the absence of students and to provide complete and accurate contact information." First of all, the DSS was never an advocate of the term "good times", "rightly" and similar things in the law, because it's a term that can, less time-consuming in seven days. I see you've adopted an amendment from a colleague to whom it's less than eight days, it'll mean 10 days to someone. Simply, we consider it very instructive to determine how legally beneficial it is, in which term a parent, or guardian, should come to school and justify the absence of his children. We deliberately deleted the student's right here, which is what you wrote that I am the justice of my absence. We had in mind that there are situations where a child lives only in a town, is educated in a city where his family and his parents don't live and that it's hard for that family to come to justify the absences, but we had both the information and the fact that you are now able to allow one student to do so, then all other students will have the same right. He who is left unwarranted will also have the right to come and justify. You won't be able to stop it. On the other hand, what exactly did we want to achieve, what was our goal? We wanted both parents and students and teachers to finally put on the same side, when it comes to the process of missing, that the responsibility for missing school was shared by students, teachers and parents of students. I see that you, Mr. Minister, love extremes and then when we get into this further discipline, I'll tell you where you're making extremes, but the DSS doesn't like the extremes of education in this way, because we think that between one and the other extrems are opening up a very wide space where the school needs to live and that the same co-workers, teachers, teachers, teachers, students and parents are putting on the same goal, that education be with the greatest quality and that students really understand their responsibilities. These so-called. The criminal measures, the repressive measures that you love in this law to mix between different sides of the law, have never been good in schools, first of all, one charge, one energy that is not good and the penalty measures have never been a teaching method that results in education. On the contrary, they were always counterproductive. So I'm asking you to think about this. You always have a very large number of parents in school who hold a very serious education of their children and behave properly. Of course there are a large number of parents who, along with their children, are handling your logic that we are opposing sides, so we defend, as parents, our children from angry professors who the minister has not respected for months as they strike, so, just by handling that logic, they come to school and justify the absences they know are pure calculations. If we close our eyes, we'll say it doesn't exist, but everyone who works, everyone who's a parent, faces the fact that a child tells him at one point -- why am I put in a situation where I have to go to school, when my friend is making arrangements with his mom to justify his classes when he has a written one, when he doesn't want to go to school, etc.? It's a process that's public, it'll tell you at every school. So we think that this process, first we need to talk about this problem, because this problem is evident, and secondly, it can only be prevented and it can only be met when we properly open this problem and talk to all the players very openly. We believe that every goal is to keep his child as far behind as possible, as children were also the greatest victims of the application of this law. They grew old because they used the right they were given by law. But at first glance, they're teachers, they're missing their students, the school didn't have a regular process, but it's not, it's children who got hurt. That's why we think it's very important, at this point, that we solve this in good time first, give him the time limit that is given, and then erase the possibility that the student alone justifies his absences. Be careful how much of the opposite things you do in the same law. Here in the Student Parliament you give the opportunity to talk about the quality of the textbook from which children learn, it is something that is its tool for learning, and on the other hand you give the opportunity to justify their absences. Think about if it's okay. We believe we have offered a very correct amendment. Maybe he's not gossiping about your concept, but we're ready to cross the argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58204	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58205	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, I really don't know on what basis and what arguments and facts you draw so large conclusions about me as a minister and on the work of the Ministry and on DSS policy and on all these aspects when you start to analyze a question. What's a fact, you had ministers who ran this area for five years and that in five years, they only passed one law that we had to change two, three times. So if you had a concept, we would have applied it. If we haven't applied it, the question is whether or not you had a concept, because it's a case-to-case question. The concept I did not see, the congregation did not see it, it may exist, but it was not the subject of consideration in the congregation. Then you have the full right as an MP to criticise everything the ruling majority suggests, only the question is whether you're right. This congregation majority was never afraid to discuss the content of the law. We don't always say we're right, because sometimes practice shows how good some solutions are or not. That's why we're changing the law to be better than it is, because it's about quality law and we're going to do it in a similar way in the future. It is always parliament that gives a court on the content of every law based on practice. So we've foreseen certain solutions that we think we're going to solve the problems that have proven during the implementation of this law over the past two years and we think that's good for the education system. We talked to different partners. They react in a different way than you do. All right, that's part of life, everyone thinks in their own way, but you've also seen when we discuss certain amendments and you MPs, in terms of content, completely different aspects, angle of view and again, that's part of our life. The point is – which is the best solution and we manage practice, but also the concept of the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58206	The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58207	Right on the line. First of all, I'd like to comment on the concept. Well, you just signed over, Mr. Minister, from the previous law, which was passed by the DSS minister to this 25-miss solution. So the concept was clear, there was a law. You've been cheating out of it now. Secondly, it's clear to me which partners you've been talking to. The law makes it look like a plane. On the other hand, these partners talked in the media a lot more than you did about what they asked of you, so we learned from the papers that changes and additions to the law are being made, because partners are unions in fact. When you couldn't offer the unions what they asked you to do, and these are adequate salaries, then they made a deal to get what's an amendment and an addition to this law, especially this part about student discipline. That's quite clear. What I mean by some miracle is that he thinks and protects the citizens. You know, you shouldn't but think and protect the citizens and think all those who deal with this area in a way that takes care of what they achieve and what we have to respect before we change the law. It wouldn't be a question of what I think of you, but it should be a big deal for you when the civil protection officer points to you all of these things that the DSS has written to you. Of course it is quite clear to me that you will not accept my amendment, nor do I particularly care to say – here, I accept the amendment of the DSS MPs, it is important that the law, as such, comes out better. What you're saying is that I'm making big conclusions and you don't know what, so if you were reading research, you'd know what I'm drawing conclusions from. The research that speaks of many things is probably necessary for one minister to read. I'll read you those research I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58208	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58209	The Ministry of Education and Science of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has received no amendment or any concrete objection by the citizens' protectors to the content of the law. In public, a statement from a few sentences that says what he says appeared. I would also like to have received very concrete remarks from the public defenders, so that we can talk about what the content of these remarks is, so that we simply know what it is that we have done, which raises the question of the child's right to education. It seems to me that the right to education is first and foremost, and if some part of the law is not a good government and the Ministry is obliged to propose appropriate changes. Except for a statement in a few sentences, we didn't get anything. On the contrary, they asked us for all the documents, so that they might see. I'm sorry, we're absolutely responsible and we accept both when we're right and when we're wrong that we're responsible for what it is, and then anyone should specifically say what kind of thing is not good and what it's about. As far as research is concerned, please tell me which research, which sample, who did, that we know if they were working competent persons or whether it's part of the marketing of individual associations or something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58210	Replica, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58211	Thank you for giving me the right to the replica. About the amendments to the citizens' protectors, I wish Mr. Sasa Jankovic and his team had made those amendments he spoke of on the Child Rights Committee. In fact, you know that such a body exists in the Serbian congregation and that its task is to deal with the laws that come, which cover the area of child rights. After all, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic could probably have met you, I suppose, if she had introduced you to what was then said on the board, she was the chairman of the committee and the president of the assembly. It would be a little different and probably those amendments would be treated differently if they were similar to those amendments by Mr. Sasa Jankovic, because it is obvious that someone who is an independent regulatory body has more weight than MPs who say so in the assembly. I think there's going to be a report from Mr. Ombudsman here in parliament tomorrow, so I'm going to talk about it because I don't think it's serious that someone who needs to deal with the law doesn't make that amendment. Of course, I don't intend to defend him or speak for him, the amendment and there isn't, and that's what's missing, but here are the amendments we submitted. I'm gonna get you a very impressive list of research that I've had to see and which I assume your associates have seen, since they nodded their heads while I was talking about some things. That's why I think they're competent people because I don't even professionally deal with incompetent people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58212	The word has a minister again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58213	I wish we'd been in a position to hear what the public defender thinks about this law from the point of view of the amendment. We didn't get that. We have information that a representative of the citizens' protectors was planning to come to the Education Committee, but he didn't get a call. We in the government don't decide that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58214	The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58215	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the circumstances of many of my good friends working in education. They're teachers and they like their jobs. I'm often told they're very unhappy when they can't work when they strike and when they can't make a full contribution to raising young generations in the country, but they really love their work. That's what they tell me, and I see it from their behavior, and then I talk to them a lot about the education law. And by the circumstances, for something about education, I know, not only from talking to people, but I'm going to do a little retrospective of what we all had as an experiment when it comes to education in this country. I was born in 1965 and went to first class in 1972. Then I was the victim of an experiment called targeted education and, compared to, then, tens of years ago, when I started my first year of high school in 1981, 25 unwarranted absences could have been made. Then by some regulation, by some law and some sublegal act, a decision was made that the student could make a hundred unwarranted absences and not be expelled from school. I'm talking about the year 1981 and 1982. Then we had various oscillations in the Law on Education, so that in the end this targeted education would be abolished and found some new way of secondary schooling children in Serbia, so that they would finally, at the time of the multilaterals, several laws on education, changes and addition of the Education Act. For example, only the DS has been able to decide on the management of this country, the way of education, how young people in this country will be educated since the introduction of multilaterals. But the example works, and the truth works, there is no political party in this room, which in one way or another, could not contribute to education. Some political parties even had education ministers, who were remembered for various experiments, by many facts, by many actions, by inaction. We had the opportunity to have during the mandate of these political parties, the minister, only one Education Act, some criticised him as a very shrew, some criticised him as a very bad one, some voted for him. We've had opportunities to discuss the Education Law, during this government, to see what's wrong with this law and try to fix it with amendments. I'm sorry we didn't get the citizens' protector's objections when it comes to amendments to this law. But the fact is, when I talk to my friends who are teachers, they tell me that the time has changed pretty much when we, who are sitting, most of us in this room, went to school today. Because today it's very difficult for a student to get out of school. Today, teachers come into a situation where they fear their students, because they can be threatened. Today, not by law, today, I don't say what was under that law, when you're already pulling me by the word, when Darwin's theory was lifted, that I don't speak what was under that law, when many negative phenomena marked the education and education of young people. Therefore, I personally think that, when it comes to education, it is always important to listen, primarily to professions, trade unions, educators, people who apply these laws daily, that it is very important to respect all the arguments that the profession makes. Personally, I think there's a good intention here to remove these amendments from certain irregularities and negative phenomena we've seen in the past. I see good intentions of the Ministry to restore the reputation of building a system of education that will raise people, who will have to show what they know the next day, and not who they know, that based on what they can get a job, not on who they know, but above all, they will have to enable people who love their jobs, which are educational workers who are raising these generations who come, to train them to reward work in this country, to reward employment at work, to reward knowledge and not reward the way to escrow work, to escrow responsibility, to avoid, to show what is known, and in the end, to restore dignity to the professor's profession. So I would support all these legal proposals and once again express... What? There's only one on the agenda. I'm talking about amendments and laws. The amendments are also legal proposals. Those legal proposals, some I wouldn't support, and I wouldn't vote for them, and some I don't understand. On the other hand, I understand the ministry's proposals. What amendment are you talking about? (President: Please do not disturb the speaker. Thank you. That's why I'm telling you, it's always important to listen to what the waist says. It's always important to look a little backwards at what who had the opportunity to do when he ruled this country and ruled this country, depending on how he understood power. It is also important to look at what education has been through in Serbia in the last 50 years, so you will see that we are here and because of some bad legal solutions and legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58216	Thank you. Mrs. Donka Banovic on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58217	I just wanted to look back on my colleague's discussion, and God and the minister. Both said they would like you to have received concrete amendments from the Citizens' Protectors. I suppose you'd most like to have received a concrete amendment to that and that member of the Guardian of Citizens. This type of written amendment has not reached the parliamentary groups and the ministry apparently. However, there is a Committee on the Rights of the Child in the Assembly. It used to be a subcommittee, so by amending the Rules of Procedure, it's now the Committee on the Rights of the Child. I could say that, by its composition, perhaps the most serious committee in the National Assembly. The President of the Committee shall be President of the National Assembly. All vice-presidents of the Assembly by task, automatically, or as defined by the Rules of Procedure, are members of that committee, and plus, there are MPs from all parliamentary groups. The last meeting of the subcommittee was attended by Mrs Tamara Luksic-Orlandic, who is the deputy Protector of the citizens' rights of the child. She was on that committee orally, though, but there were MPs, made objections and objections to this bill. It's just that the board has this one task, to monitor that they don't accidentally violate themselves, through our legal proposals, laws concerning the rights of the child. Some MPs then, I don't know if any more MPs, have translated her remarks in writing into amendments. I think your position would probably be easier if the Guardian had given you that. We MPs sometimes can't expect to get our amendments done, but we hear objections and we overwrite it in writing. I don't think that's some reason why you shouldn't take these amendments seriously. That's one thing. The other thing is, what my esteemed colleague said, I'm 63 years old, and it seems to me that he was 65 years old, as he was the victim of a system of education. I really can't think of myself. I went to a targeted education, and I finished my biological course. After high school education, I'm an auxiliary researcher in biology. I think that direction was very good. He was so good, I continued to study languages after him. I can't say that this episode in education in the then-Yugoslavia, or Serbia, may have been the most brilliant, but that people who were educated and in this middle-oriented education had enviable careers. I don't want a whole generation of '60s born from this pay phone hearing that we consider them victims, and we don't want to think of ourselves as victims. No, I don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58218	Is this the time for discussing both the authorised representative and the debate of the parliamentary group? Yes, it is. ) The word has Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58219	I just want to say a few sentences. We didn't get anything in writing from the Guardian of Citizens. It's a fact, and it's a shame. If MPs are part of their presentations, or amendments that have referred to amendments and additions to this law, if they contain objections from the Guardians of Citizens, we may have met these requirements. We've accepted 12 amendments. Let me say it. It's a relative thing now. If something isn't written, it's a matter of interpretation. If it's a matter of interpretation, it could be like this anyway. So let me tell you, there are 12 amendments accepted. Yesterday, we proposed eight more amendments to the Committee to be accepted as amendments to the Committee. I'm sorry that Assistant Protector wasn't on the board yesterday. Those members who were on the board yesterday saw that there was a good will to accept each amendment. Once again, I say, we from the government and the ministry have not influenced who may be invited to the Committee's session. Why isn't the Guardian invited to the Committee's session? That's what you should ask. If you are already referring to one committee, you should tell the truth on the other committee, the Education Committee. Yesterday the atmosphere was great and working. It voted in favour of these eight amendments which were accepted as amendments to the Committee. I don't think there was any difference between the parliamentary groups in terms of, as I would say, party membership in relation to the shared desire to accept these amendments. All accepted unanimously. If we'd heard something new yesterday, we'd have accepted that. We're not, as I say, outside of accepting, but we need to know what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58220	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education tabled an amendment to Article 15. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. There's no answer for word. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. The word is Mrs. Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58221	I'm going to use the time of my authorised representative, just like I used to. A colleague, Vlad Milojkovic, submitted an amendment to Article 15. The bill in which he asked to replace the word "mild-time" in Article 15: "in 15 days". Of course, the amendment refers to the justification or justification of the absence, which we have been talking about for some time. The reasons for the refusal of amendments states that the amendment should not be accepted for reasons that it would not be in accordance with Article 41. The law on elementary school, which has been defined as the parent is obliged to make justice the absence of students no later than eight days." I come into a situation where I have to ask why, then, and in this bill, it does not stand instead of saying, "good times" – eight days? Then we would avoid these amendments and colleagues from the parliamentary group before us and colleagues from the DSS and ours. So it would be clearly defined what is the time limit to justify the absence. Otherwise, I would draw attention to the fact that the absences are a very difficult and painful subject, as far as education is concerned, and that the largest number of absences is one to two percent of students and that everyone else attends class regularly. More than 90% of students tend to have proper conduct while only a small number of students are problematic. But I don't understand why the law in Article 112 says it's a student's duty to attend school regularly and perform school duties, and then allow it in other members, whether it's 35, 25 or not, to make unwarranted absences? I mentioned one example among the MPs earlier when a student who is otherwise great comes into a situation in May to say that his class elder allows him to have five unwarranted absences and says, "I don't want them to fail." I don't think allowing, no matter how many unwarranted absences, really doesn't contribute to the quality of teaching. In order for teaching to be better, we have to do everything we can to make the number of absences as small as possible. Because the absence also leads to behavioral disturbances. Many experts even believe that the roots of delinquent behavior begin with lack of teaching, and this later leads to various failures in life. The absence is not at all, no matter how many new laws and amendments and additions we've made lately, I'm getting the impression that the absence is not properly regulated, that it won't facilitate the work of the educators, which I think was the aim of this bill itself to amend and supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58222	Before we move on to the amendment to Article 17, I would like to inform the Members of Parliament that, on the basis of Article 87, we will continue our work today and that we will also move to the next item of the agenda, and this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance in particular, so that we will also end today with this law. We'll work without a break, since we started at 12:00. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marija Bulgarčić, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58223	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, amendment of the SRS Parliament Club to Article 17. The bill was submitted with the intention to ensure the mandatory involvement of parents or guardians of students in the educational and disciplinary procedure conducted by the school, if the student commits serious infringements of the obligations of pupils or infringements of the prohibition laid down in Articles 44 and 45 of the basic law. The promoter defined the need for parents to be present only at the time when the student is being heard or made his written statement. We have proposed by amendment that a parent must be present in the conduct of the entire procedure. We believe that the presence of parents is necessary, on the one hand, in order for individual students not to be damaged and that in the case of a larger number of students who have committed serious injury to obligations, we have such cases, or infringements of any discrimination, violence or abuse. On the other hand, since the school has an educational role, we in the SRS feel that the presence of parents throughout the process can give another benefit, which is that the parent takes a closer look at the individual traits of his child he could not know about or notice at home, because children behave differently in the home and differently in the company of his peers at school. A parent would then come in contact with the psychological and pedagogical service of the school, which would be useful if the student did not do another injury, i.e. If a mistake had happened in another school year, it wouldn't have happened again. This amendment to the SRS was not accepted, with the reason that the second amendment of counterpart Mihajlovic was accepted, and we welcome it, because we see that the opinions are in the direction that parents should be as involved as possible, but as the amendment was adopted, the presence of parents is again only taken into account at the time of the hearing and giving a written statement. This is where the need for parents to be present in the follow-up process ends. That is why we asked for the amendment of the SRS parliamentary club to ensure the presence of parents after that. In addition to all of this, I will add that the basic law also potentiates the involvement of parents. Thus, Article 3 of the basic law states: "The education and education system provides its organisation and content with: effective family co-operation, involvement of parents and guardians in order to successfully achieve the objectives set for education and education". Then, Article 113 of the basic law provides for the participation of parents and the attitude of 1st, among other things: "The school is obliged, with the participation of parents or guardians of pupils, to strengthen educational work through the departmental community, the professional work of the departmental elder, educator, psychologist, special teams, and, where necessary, to co-operate with relevant social or health care institutions to change the behaviour of students". When we consider all this, I see no reason why the amendment to Article 17, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary club, would not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58224	Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. No one's answering for a word. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58225	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, the NS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 17, which reads: "In the educational and disciplinary procedure, the student must be heard and made a written statement, and if he is a minor, the procedure is carried out in the presence of parents or guardians. Parent or guardian by signature confirms presence." This is one sensitive question in education and education. We are aware of the time in which we live, and I can say that it carries its burden at all times. Our first obligation is to raise the generations that come behind us, because they came to this world not by their own will but by our will and we have an obligation towards them, and their rights that we all are happy to talk about and, when it comes to children's rights, I fear much more of a cocktail than they really do, come out, first of all, out of obligation and duty. That's what we have to teach them. There's something here that regulates student behavior. I'm someone who comes from practice, and I'm also a parent, so fortunately I can tell you that these are not common cases. Unfortunately for us, sometimes, for such children the school does more than parents. I'll tell you from my experience that when I had a drastic educational problem with a student, my first contact with my parents always pointed out that my parent was a much bigger problem. It's a practice behind which I stand as someone who spent 25 years behind the cathedral. So we felt that this particular part of the law should be regulated most precisely, that school, as an institution, should be protected to preserve its dignity and influence, the most important influence. Education is one of the three sacred pillars of every country and I endlessly cheer for the mission of educators, who always goes together education and education. These are two indivisible processes. Sometimes these extreme situations happen to us. They must be governed by law. The school must be protected, the child must be protected, the future must be protected. The law there must act preventively, so that those who happen to want or are listed in any way to sin against it know in time that they should not do so. By the way, there's a lot of talk about what had to be done, what else could have been fixed. This law can be fixed. We've got a lot to fix. We first have to fix ourselves all together everywhere, so that these kids who need to inherit from us the burden that I've been talking about and that's not easy at all, at least make it a little easier. It's our duty. I don't really see enough social efforts, so let the Ministry of Education just think about it a little bit. I'm suggesting that minors, we're talking about high school kids here, they shouldn't be out at 11:00 p.m. and coming home at 5:00. There's not much in school here, though, but parents do. The whole society has to think about it, first from a health point of view, which no one on any media will talk about, and we know what that means. Just to look up to these Western democracies, if we're coming to them in Europe, let's say in Germany one who's underage after eight o'clock in the evening can't be in town without parents or guardians. That's punishable. So, about that, only one such a drastic member who, God knows how, would change a lot of that to society. So, as for accepting, or not accepting our amendment, I can say, thanks to Mr. Minister, he may have accepted a more comprehensive amendment. I hope this member will deliver some results in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58226	Here you go, Mr. Minister. Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58227	Thank you to my colleague Djeric but also to my colleague Dimitrijevic for what she just said. I want to make this article 17 after there have been more amendments to this article 17, to say why some of these amendments have not been accepted. The reason is contained in the explanation. We believe that the proposed amendments are, absolutely, on the line of what we obviously all want to define very precisely this area, that is, this issue. We have accepted the amendment of fellow MP Miletic Mihajlovic, who, in our opinion, is more precisely defined in the educational and disciplinary procedure with the presence of parents, or guardians, as well as all other participants and witnesses in the process, must be heard in order to make a written statement. Also, a shortened deadline for the launch of a educational disciplinary procedure for 30 days to allow the implementation of the obligations of the institutions prescribed in Article 113(1). The law, enhanced educational work and which must be taken before the student is given an educational-discipline measure, Article 115(3). The law. The accepted amendment has given a particular person who is initiating the procedure, it is the director, and the level of protection of the rights of the child has been increased. I've read this to you the reasons for us from the Ministry. Now I'm going back to the essence of these changes. If you remember what we said a few days ago, part of the criticism that you MPs sent us, the promoter, the Government, to us from the Ministry was, I think, tied to that provision that stood in the text of the amendments and additions – that the student must be heard. Now we've established that he can. It seems to me that it was the remark of several MPs, perhaps it was part of this conversation that you had Monday morning with the chairman of the Child Equality Committee, at least according to what I heard from the vice president. So here you see that we have come to meet this, as we have come to meet the question of the student parliament's obligations. We proposed to the Committee yesterday to delete this Article of the 13th Law, as we suggested, since the word "good times" was criticised, and perhaps not all of them are familiar enough. The elementary school law says it's eight days, then we proposed to the Committee yesterday to be an amendment to the Committee and then to confirm that eight-day deadline, also, for this content of the law. I'm telling you this to know that, since there have been more amendments to this article 17. We have accepted the amendment of fellow Members Miletic Mihajlovic, but we have sought through other amendments to improve this law by taking over parts of the amendments that you, as MPs, have proposed independently of which parliamentary group it is, when we have assessed that this is improving the content of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58228	Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague, Srboljub Zivanovic, has tabled an amendment to article 17. I can see that there are seven or eight amendments to this article of the law, which are, more or less, similar to the contents and treat one of those same matter. For a good part of this, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, spoke, in this previous exhibition. However, here I must also note that Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic's amendment differs from all the other amendments and that he should certainly have been accepted, because he would rightly remove all the problems that can be reported when taking statements and justifying the absence and management, above all, of the educational disciplinary process. Mr. Minister, you must be aware that it is not always possible to take a statement from a parent, or guardian, or a student who is a minor and cannot be heard for the reason he has, here is the minister who does not listen to me, and it is very important. Mr. Obradic, it is very important that you see this amendment. You stated here - the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in Amendment 24. When we look at Amendment 24, he refers to this amendment by Miletic Mihajlovic, which you spoke of. It's not what you said that's questionable. Take a good look, for example, at this amendment under regular number 24, which is the amendment of a group of MPs from the LDP, the final paragraph, in the disciplinary procedure, the student must be heard and made a statement himself. Also, look at the amendment under the regular number of 6 accepted amendments by Miletic Mihajlovic, witnesses must be heard and a written statement must be made, etc. Now, the amendment submitted by Mr. Zivanovic does not deny all of what this is about, what this is about. It just explains the situation to her what happens if it's not possible to listen to the student and the parents and take their statement. Believe me, I know this perfectly well from practice and it is very often not possible. It's characteristic, first of all, in high school. They enroll in the first grade of high school, go a few days, ten days, a month, it doesn't matter how much, they take confirmation that they're regular students, and their certificates serve various things, for children's accessories, for city transport, for family pensions, it doesn't matter what, because there's a lot of things and they don't show up anymore. Of course, such a student who does not appear until the end of the school year must be sanctioned in such a way as to stop him from being a regular student. In order for that to happen, and he himself is aware, he himself prescribed that status by not coming to school. In order for this to happen, we must take his statement. How are we gonna take his statement when we don't see him anywhere, whether we should chase him, play cop, and that's what we're talking about here in this amendment. However, I am not a member of the Education Committee, although I am an educational worker, it is not important, but I think that, Mr. Minister, you may not have done well to have not accepted this amendment, it does not affect all these amendments, but this is only one upgrade to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58230	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58231	This amendment of ours also refers to this Article 17, which we have discussed so far and where it is practical in the government's response to the refusal of all these amendments to an explanation called for the amendment of counterpart Miletic Mihajlovic, which has been accepted. So that I don't read the amendment in general, mostly, our amendment is a little different from these amendments, and in what part? In this section, in Article 17(3), which refers to the educational and disciplinary procedure, where it is said to be initiated no later than 60 days, that all necessary and relevant participants should be heard, and that they should be reached at the end of the solution. The amendment of counterpart Miletic Mihajlovic was accepted in part, because we in our amendment, in addition to asking for this 60-day period to be reduced to 30 days, added a sentence, because we considered both in this attitude and in these previous amendments, attention was given to the launch of the disciplinary procedure, on participants and on who runs it. At all, there is no time in this attitude and within what time this educational-discipline procedure will be completed. We are in our amendment in paragraph 3 besides asking that the 60-day deadline be reduced to 30 days, we added a sentence that – the procedure must be completed before the end of the current school year. It may seem either the government and the lawmaker felt that it was logical that the process would end during the school year, but we believe that this should be done in this position and that it was written that the deadline for ending the disciplinary process was school year. Why? Because in practice it can happen for a variety of reasons, aware that the disciplinary procedure is extended even after the end of the year, and that such things are potentially, especially in the case of these serious violations that may occur, that in that case it is unthinkable if the school year ends and this disciplinary procedure is unfinished or completed in the summer months. We believe that another sentence should have been added in this attitude to the end, the time period, and that is the school year as the deadline for ending this educational-discipline process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58232	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58233	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have here really more amendments to this article, which is certainly very important in what is the role of the school in relation to students who should be allowed to attend school regularly and it is about one school course to do so. This is a very complex question that has always appeared in practice – how do these issues be regulated? I really have no reason or intention to glorify any solution. The circumstances have led to the acceptance of my amendment. I've read other amendments that I think are also more or less acceptable and that I agree with. It is commendable that MPs actively participate in the debate and in principle, as well as by submitting amendments to find the best solutions. So, I think that neither the government, the first government since 2000, could solve all the issues that are within the scope of this law, nor through the amendments and additions, by adopting the Law on the foundation of the education and education system, nor do I think that this current government, whose minister of education and science, Mr Obradovic, could solve them in the most ideal way, will solve all these issues. In my view, it is very important that the current minister of education and science, after a period of one year from 2009, find a reason to offer amendments to this law to improve all these solutions that were previously given, which have proved to be perhaps inadequate or has confirmed that they are not the best solutions to regulate all these issues. There's one flexibility here, one observation that one law can't be ideal, and that's supposed to be a real rule. I don't think it would be bad if after a year we came back here and looked again through the amendments and the additions of this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Even this 117 will be subject to reviewing and trying to improve these solutions. Of course, there is a very complex question here when it comes to missing students, and when it comes to sanctioning such procedures and it is necessary to pursue what is a pedagogical practice, which is to include in this process both parents and parents and teachers, i.e. the school, means as that pedagogical triangle, and that constant communication in that triangle to best record the situation and to have an appropriate solution. In my view, it is very important that a parent really engages in these matters in the right way. Although it is a matter of both his will and his interest, unfortunately, because it is also very often under question. So, I've had, from practice, I'm talking now, because I've been working in education and as a teacher and as a director, the situation that my parent told me – don't let when it comes to prom that kids go to the car. I answered – I will certainly not give the keys to my car to the student once, therefore, I am not the owner of those keys, nor the car, you have to solve it yourself, etc. This example illustrates the actual attempt of some parents, of course, not to generalise, that all the problems that arise in this process are being transferred to school. The school, of course, is not an entity that is solely competent for education, even for education students, but is certainly one more complex relationship that needs to be met by collaboration between different entities. Secondly, we cannot claim to find such solutions that school as an educational institution will be the only place and ideal place to realize all the goals and tasks that need to be achieved in the process of education and education. Furthermore, the school cannot be different from society and from the state as it already is and what kind of state it is. We are in this process of transition, we are in the search for many solutions, we are in the process of changing consciousness on many issues, and we ourselves notice that we have not reached a certain degree of responsibility and awareness on many issues completely as a society. In fact, in this process of approaching the EU, there is this tendency to change that consciousness, and until consciousness is changed, we often also cannot reach that level by the laws that we make on paper. So I really deeply appreciate what the attempts of the MPs are, whether or not they belong to the opposition... I'm using the time of my authorised representative, so I'm asking the president to appreciate that. So I deeply appreciate the attempts of all MPs, whether they are from a position or opposition, to improve this law through amendments and through debate. But, of course, I must conclude that, on the other hand, the minister and his associates have shown great flexibility and that he has accepted 11 amendments that are not only amendments, or MPs from the ranks of office, but also from the opposition. Furthermore, seven more - eight amendments were accepted at the committee session, so it seems to me that it also shows a focus on what is the real goal and what is our common desire. When it comes to the Guardian of Citizens, I must admit that the texts that appeared in the meantime are not very clear until the end, in terms of what the Protector of the Citizens wanted to say. He had to do it more decadently and more clearly explain, if he was already making any statements. He certainly had the opportunity to personally use his associates in an adequate and detailed way to propose concrete solutions, which would certainly help to improve this law and these proposed solutions. So I don't believe that the Citizens' Protector has some MPs or MPs that he acts in an indirect manner. It's just that it's unacceptable and it's an empty story that doesn't make any sense. Furthermore, I think that, when it comes to the rights of students, or the rights of children, this law is not threatened by anything, there is actually one tendency here through the adoption of these changes and the addition to define the obligations of students, which, in a legal sense, give space and a framework for the application of the rights of the child, i.e. students. It is an orderly system that should function in all activities and in all spheres of life and work. We can't understand rights so liberally in terms of falling into the sphere of destruction, anarchy, etc. So, of course, I agree that the previous 35-hour solution to the unwarranted was not good, but perhaps the circumstances in that period when we passed the law in 2009 were such that it was accepted as a solution that proved not to be good. It really wasn't good, but the solution we adopted in 2009 was not the product of a minister or of any kind, it was the product of a broad debate, and at that point it was decided on the basis of some majority. I'll be allowed to say on my subjective side that most of it was wrong. That's what I think. I don't mind. But here's a chance for us to make it right both in this article and in some other members. That is why once again at the end of my presentation on behalf of the SPS-JS Parliament Club, I approve such an act as to present to the National Assembly the problems that are within one law and fix it. Let's do it next time, if we have to do it before, if the practice shows that there may be some things that may not have been right about this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58234	Thank you. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58235	We've had practically two amendments to this same article. The first amendment signed by counterpart Zeljko Tomic refers to attitude 2 and we suggest that the position 2 is – in the educational and disciplinary procedure, the student must be heard necessarily with the presence of the parents, regardless of the age, and the course and effect of the hearing shall be followed by a written note. In fact, our desire was to completely erase the process of giving a written statement by the disciples from this attitude. We are not happy at all that you are as a medium solution, but it is not a medium solution, because the essence remains the same, you, as counterpart Mihajlovic said, have accepted his amendment and left the exact same open opportunity, because his amendment says they must be heard and can make a written statement. So, as soon as you've left an opportunity -- I can make a written statement, it'll probably be 90% of the school's directors, because they'll decide who's going to give the written statement, they'll probably resort to the solution that the student gives the written statement again, so you haven't solved anything at all. I guess you were trying to trick us a little bit. We accepted this because it's the same as yours, and it's not the same. That's the first one. This second solution, we have suggested to shorten this deadline of conducting the educational-disciplinary procedure, from your proposed 60 we are at 20. All right, you've accepted that 30. It's mostly shortening procedure, so now whether it's 30 or 20 days, it doesn't matter that much. But this second solution where you leave this member of the opportunity and you say -- it can make a written statement, it's exactly the same, and you didn't have to accept anyone's amendments at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58236	Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. This is one of my amendments from many concerning Article 17. It also refers to the reduction of deadlines for the conduct of the educational and disciplinary procedure. The government did not accept this amendment, but in order to be honest, I have to say that it did it in one indirect way, this time by accepting Mr. Miletic's amendments, unlike Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic's amendments, which I spoke of about 10, 15 minutes ago. That's why I don't want to talk about my amendment anymore, but I have something else to say. Unfortunately, a few minutes ago, the minister came out of this room, I believe he'll be back, but I have to bring out a problem from the city of Nis, from which I come. It's about the Teacher's House, and I'm asked by the Association of Teachers from southern Serbia to make a notification. Namely, the Association of Teachers from Nis is the oldest society of this type in Serbia. It's been in existence since 1881, so that's when it was founded. It was founded by a famous teacher from Nis at the time of Atanasia Tasa Petrovic and today the oldest elementary school has the name "Teacher Tasa", just so you know. The company still numbers over 1,200 members gathered from 57 schools in Nis and its surroundings. This society uses the services of a teaching home, a building located almost in the centre of Nis, which is protected by the state and the Society was built in 1932 and 1933, built this teaching home with the personal means of the then teachers of the city of Nis. After 80 years of using the home by the Association of Teachers of Serbia, they came to the situation that the leadership of the town of Nis had performed before the purpose of the teacher's home, so that they predicted that there was an infringing court in those rooms. There's also proceedings, lawsuits, countersuits, etc. I'm not a lawyer to know in the best possible way how to explain all these things, but the point is that, as far as I can tell, such an object really wants to be taken from a teacher's home, it wants to be taken away from the Serbian Teachers' Society. To that end, the Nish Teacher Society has launched the last days and the petition collection, for some three days gathered over 5,000 citizens' signatures, I am one of those who supported this initiative, and I know that the minister is familiar with one part of this. On July 4th, representatives of the Nis Teacher Society visited the Serbian government, made their request, presented problems and left the documentation with one of their associates, I can't remember his name, from the Ministry of Education. I know that during the visit of Minister Zarko Obradovic Nis, there were also talks about it, however, the solution is not seen on the pier and there are no concrete things to solve this case. So in order not to talk much more about it, the Ministry has complete documentation, it is aware of what it is, and I will present only one short version here, as regards these problems and chronology of things, flows and events related to the Teacher's House of Nis, and that is why I will hand over to the associates of Mr. Zarko Obradovic, although I say I am extremely sorry that he just came out when I needed to talk about this, but I hope that he will return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58238	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Mrs. Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the need now that amendments to Article 17 are ending, to welcome the adopted amendments by the Government in the direction of reducing the educational and disciplinary procedure because, in any case, the withdrawal, so to speak and the extension of the educational-discipline procedure, raises all the effects of its conduct in general, because if the educational-discipline procedure is extended so much that the measures that are at the end of it cannot be applied during the school year or cannot give any effect to the work of that student and its behaviour at all, to facilitate the work of both class elders and teachers and teaching teachers and the pedago-psychological service, then the purpose of the educational and disciplinary procedure itself is lost. It is good that these amendments have been adopted and, of course, amendments to other parliamentary groups and amendments to the SRS parliamentary group and we hope that we have contributed to the quality of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58240	Thank you. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58241	This amendment applies to this chapter marked as educational and disciplinary measures and procedures. This amendment refers to Article 18, where we are asking for an amendment and we suggest that Article 18 be deleted. Now I'm going to try to read first what the Ministry's proposal is for this member, and I'm going to do a parallel with the previous views of this same member, because by proposing to delete this position of the 1st of this same member, we're practically affirming and we think that the solutions from the previous law were better and more adequate and I'm going to try to explain it. You see, the new proposal says: "For the violation of the prohibition committed by Articles 44 and 45 of this Law, the educational and disciplinary measure: 1) reproof of the director or reproof of the teaching council: 2) the transfer of students from the fifth to eighth grade to the second elementary school, based on the decision of the teacher council, with the consent of parents, i.e. guardians and schools to which they pass. "I read this for the public, or citizens. Now in the old position of this Article, 115 was this solution: "The transfer of students from fifth to eighth grade to second elementary school based on the decision of the teaching council, with the consent of parents, or guardians". There's no agreement offered here on the school he's going to. That's why we think that the previous solution is better, because there can really be one situation here to move students from fifth grade to eighth grade to second grade, whether the director, whether or not the teachers of those other schools, does not give consent. It's probably not going to happen in practice, but, on the other hand, if you're giving the possibility to have a school that the student is going to go to, especially if he's committed a serious disciplinary violation, that I'm not saying that in Article 113, there are clearly more serious injuries that the student can do, we think that the previous solution is better, because this inconceivability and indecision, which can also put this into place that it needs the consent of the school he's going to be in, is complicated by this attitude. As for point 3 of the same attitude, the current proposal says, the next disciplinary measure is the third for high school students: "disfellowshipping students from school or school with a home". I will read how this reads in the previous law: "disability of high school students in that school year, without the right to continue education in the same school, and to a student who is placed in school with a home, the absence of the property of students in school and the right to stay in a home in that school year, without the right to continue education in the same school and accommodation in the same home. So there is a much more precise attitude that clearly states that this student is not only excluded for that school year, but can not continue schooling in the next school year. This solution that I have read where it says – it is excluded, it is once again creating a legal void. Does this mean that he is excluded from this school year that he will be able to continue schooling in the same school again, or in the same home? This proposed solution, these educational-discipline measures, we consider in this section to be much more inaccurate because they either create a legal void or give the possibility of interpreting or embarrassing situations in the absence of consent, and in this previous two attitudes of this educational-discipline measure of the previous law were much clearer, more precisely and really created a small possibility that they could be interpreted in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58242	Thank you. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to educational and disciplinary measures and legal protection of students, i.e. Article 115 of the Law, which proposes amending point 3. I propose this amendment to improve the text of the law in sub-point 2 of the amendment to the Law on the Foundations of the System of Education and Education by adding the words "teacher council" after the Alliance "i" in order to ensure that the teacher's higher school is involved in the process. You may have thought that as proposed, the transfer of students from the fifth to eighth grade to the second elementary school is based on the decision of a teacher council with the consent of parents, or guardians and schools to which it goes. However, this amendment determines who gives consent at the school where the student passes. It should, in my opinion, be a teacher's bigger analog to what does a teacher's council from a school where the student moves from. Since the bill includes school, then all the elements that make up one school, students, teachers, auxiliary staff can be understood. If they're all supposed to give consent to switch students to their school, then we have a Roman so-called. a working council from the age of socialist self-management. You did not accept this amendment of mine, with the reason that the amendment should not be accepted, because consent for the reception of students will be made by the school authority responsible for making such a decision, which is in accordance with the provisions of the legislator. The consent of the school means the consent of the appropriate decision-making body. The decision of the bill is in favour of the right of students to education. But we didn't understand each other here. I asked for consent, and you're talking about the decision. Of course, when consent is obtained, the decision is signed by the Director, because he is authorized to do so. I don't suppose my amendment has been carefully read. Minister Obradovic is one of the few ministers in this government who respects the National Assembly by coming and representing the laws of his jurisdiction, and has not happened to come by some on-call minister instead of representing laws from his jurisdiction, actively taking part in the debate. I'm sorry he's not here right now. He said in a principle debate that he would accept all those amendments that would improve the text of this law, regardless of which party they came from. Since this amendment is one of those, I'm surprised it wasn't accepted, but that doesn't mean Mr. Secretary won't change his mind and accept this amendment if his associates tell him what I just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58244	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The word has been made by the People's MP, Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58245	I've only got two minutes, so I'll talk fast. We intervene in this newly proposed position, where the Ministry suggests that the final assessment of the government determines the Sectional Council on the proposal of the department elder at the end of the first and second term, based on the examination of the personality and behaviour of pupils in general, by assessing its overall conduct and enforcement of the obligations prescribed by law. We propose to delete this part of "execution of the obligations prescribed by law", to convince, the promoter believes that if the student has a higher number of insufficient assessments, he does not carry out some of his obligations. However, if he fails to carry out those obligations when it comes to learning, he is also assessed as insufficient in the specific case. We believe that the student has more than enough grades, but does not commit any other offenses, behaves politely in school, that the element should not affect the assessment of the rule. If he's having problems with an object, he's being punished by having an underrated grade. It has a very bad effect on motivation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58246	Thank you. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Pavel Marchok. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovicz, Donka Bankovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this section refers to the obligations of staff at the institution and what we have written the amendment is actually part of the license and registration of teachers, educators and professional associates. He then predicted that schools, i.e. the Ministry run a register of licensed teachers, educators and professional associates and what was changed in relation to the previous 2009 law, they found that the register should not be public. If he is not public, he is not exposed to the public, or in some way he is secret. It is not clear to us at all the purpose of this kind of change, because it is perfectly normal in every democratic country, and look at other countries, that the list of licensed educators, professional associates and teachers is publicly on the site and you can see it. I don't understand the motive for something that's extremely harmless to be secret. What is the basic postulate of democracy is the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58248	National MP Radica Jocic submitted to the 21st amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, we have asked to amend the solution in Article 21 by asking for the words "to make a narrow selection of candidates who" in the words "all candidates who have applied". This is what we asked for to reduce the authority of the director in a way, because Article 21 of point 1 reads - in the decision-making process on the selection of teachers, educators and professional associates, the director conducts a narrow selection of candidates who refer to the previous examination of psychophysical abilities within eight days of the date of expiry of the application deadline; by checking the psychophysical skills for working with children and students, he performs the competent service for employment, applying standardised procedures, within eight days of the date of obtaining the results of the check, the director obtains the opinion of the managing authority. The government rejected the amendment, arguing that it should not be accepted, as the competent employment service does not have the capacity to carry out checks on all candidates who appear to be competing, thus slowing down the selection process and creating legal uncertainty. The decision of the bill is also imposed by the fact that the carried out examination of the candidate's psychophysical abilities is valid for only six months. If the need for this psychophysical test is shown to be valid for more than six months, it should have been regulated, and it is inadmissible that the reasons for not accepting the amendments states that the employment service does not have enough capacity to carry out the examination of all the candidates who have applied, if it is necessary to receive more personnel to check the psychophysical skills, then it should do so, rather than disabling some of the candidates at the very competition to be seriously considered as candidates. Directors are also not competent, they are not trained to check their psychophysical abilities, so that at the start of the competition they can make a narrow selection of candidates who will only be screened for psychophysical abilities. Otherwise, we think the powers of directors, not just on this matter, but on the other hand, may be too wide. They have full control of finance, reception and dismissal of employees, launch, management and judgment, so to speak conditionally, according to educational and disciplinary procedures, and their behaviour, i.e. this much of their powers, led to the appearance of mobbing in many schools, led to the emergence of corruption, related to employment, and as regards educational and disciplinary procedures led to large divisions in collectives which, of course, led to the violation of human relations and the tightening of these relations in some cases to intolerance. You'll agree with me that interpersonal relations mean a lot when performing a educational-discipline process at all. If interpersonal relations are violated in collectives, then the very quality of teaching, of course, is falling. In this case, I think these two amendments concerning the same member should be considered and of course accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58250	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58251	The amendment to Article 21 and is not the only amendment, and this seems to me to be Article 17 and 21 of the key amendment, and the minister has said here several times today, and has listed how many amendments he has accepted, amendments submitted by MPs and the SRS, as well as some other parliamentary groups, but I am afraid these amendments will not exactly improve the basic foundations of the education and education system because the fundamental amendments, which the minister did not actually accept, refer to members 17 and 21. A bill of this law. Otherwise, in the beginning, it is certainly good to remind yourself that in these eleven years so-called. Serbia's pro-European path, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, the third minister who was intent on education and education, i.e. the system of education and education, changes or reformes from the foundation, but apparently the error was made by making these laws, as you like to say, instead of the basic roof laws. As a lawyer, I don't really know what that means, but it's also a new speech that seems to be getting more and more accepted in this House. So three times laws were passed on the basis of the education and education system and, unfortunately, the education system showed that none of these laws were good and to amend and supplement each of these laws, and there were no more good. Education, i.e. education, above all, is at a very critical point in Serbia, I mean in a negative sense. Unfortunately, generations coming out of primary, secondary school, and even from college, given what they are served and given the system of education, are getting worse and more illiterate. We, in the SRS, argue that, since these laws are also passed by you from the ruling regime only by order of the EU, which is extremely bad from our point of view, that you are actually contributing to the destruction of generations passing through this educational system. Today, the time so-called time is mentioned here. She's a security guard. Here was the debate on how good the education system was, how bad it was, the fact that there were also a few generations left from that period that had been maimed in educational terms compared to those who had been raised by the system that had been in place before and which was adopted afterwards. When we first spoke, we must go back a little to that period when the first reform tried to carry out the disastrous law when the minister enlightened Gašo Knezevic. That's when we from the SRS turned our attention and said how bad the law was and how much that law would actually mutilate all the generations that would learn under that law. Turns out it was absolutely true. The problem of all these governments in these 11 years is that, and it seems to us the most that you're destroying is irreparable. We often tell you that what has been destroyed through criminal privatisation, that the jobs have been shut down, that people are on an existential level or below it, these are major problems anyway, but also problems that one responsible government can solve in a few years. But the problems of destroyed generations through a poor education system, that's something that no one else can make up for. That's the problem. We are convinced that this problem is well aware and Minister Zarko Obradovic is well aware, because he and I, and a lot of other colleagues here at the same time, were MPs just when it was said and when the law of Gaša Knezevic was passed. Then, Mr. Obradovic, you shared the SRS' views in 95% when it came to the criticism of the law. When you announced the adoption of a new law in 2009, we believed that you would actually use these experiences and that you would install into the law what you were up to in 2003. Remember, that law we passed in the night, at five o'clock in the morning, the session of parliament was over, so when we got out of that gym the cab drivers were passing and watching what was going on, whether we were normal and what we were doing all night in parliament. Unfortunately, you haven't applied any of what you said back then. We didn't use stenograms from that period, at least as far as what you're saying, and as far as SRS is concerned, we don't need stenograms, we have absolutely the same attitude, and then it's hell. In general, when it comes to education and education and not only that, SRS attitudes, when it comes to our programme, when it comes to the interests of the Serbian state, are unchanged. To go back to Article 21, which actually applies to Article 130. It's a bill of law. He's talking about getting into a work relationship based on a competition. Minister, I'm not sure you believe in a working relationship based on competition at any school today in Serbia. That's a fact. It's a good thing you're trying, at least with this law, that as far as possible, it's in the legal frameworks, but it can't be helped by the law, especially by not such a bad member of the 130th and 21st, because you've only made it worse by what's regulated by the member so far. Of course, we will explain in detail, there is plenty of time and it is good that we have time left for this amendment, to explain to you in detail, and to try to convince you that it would be good for the general good to accept this amendment of the SRS MPs. You may not admit it, but everyone who listens to us, who is following this Parliament's work, I'm sure they'll now say that we from the SRS are absolutely right, first of all I mean the educators. Today, many fellow Members of Parliament have spoken here who are usually educational workers and the fact that they have so many objections to this law says that you did not consult the profession, and all of you in this government like to say that a big, wide public debate has been carried out, as the profession has been consulted in the drafting of the bill. Of course it has nothing to do with the truth, not this one, not any other law. We know how public debates are being held – the people you hire to write bill proposals are being brought in several other representatives of NGOs, and that actually means this public debate which basically means just confirming what you in the government already came up with to do. So, everyone who's looking at us today, and you don't have to admit it, will admit that we're right about what we've been saying about this law, and specifically when it comes to employment based on a work contest, everyone will now say that there's no possibility of someone getting a job at a school based on a public competition if they don't first establish communication with the school director, and they know what that communication means, and the school director is, of course, going straight to the president of the municipality and there's checking out who's in which party, who's close to which party and that's the basis for employment. I don't know why Mrs. President of Parliament is intervened, I don't understand, and I'd like to understand so I can tell her and answer, but I want to believe that you, Mr. Minister, don't know all this. That's why we're talking. We are speaking for the public, but we are also talking about you, because we believe in your good intentions that the state of Serbia overcomes all these problems and finally establish a legal order, at least in this area. You know, you have schools where the director says he doesn't care what teachers, colleagues, teachers, goes straight to the president of the municipality and doesn't hide that it works out, and then they agree on how many departments they're going to reduce, which teacher or teacher will have full time, which won't have full time, which because he doesn't have full-time on fire and just wait when he gets fired, who he's going to transfer to another school because he's potentially an extra at that school, etc. So, absolute self-will, and the legal basis for carrying out that will, under quotes, is the party's booklet. It's a disaster. You'll agree, I'm sure. What did you predict in this article 130? It was previously envisaged that, in the decision-making process for the selection of teachers, educators and professional associate, the director of the institution obtains the opinion of the managing authority after the previous examination of the psychophysical abilities of candidates has been carried out. And you're now saying, "In the decision-making process of selecting teachers, educators and expert associates, the Director is making a narrow selection of candidates who point to a previous check-in of psychophysical abilities within eight days of the date on which the application is due." What does this mean? So, the director at the start, on the basis of his absolute will or will, eliminates some people, candidates, who may definitely meet all the conditions and might meet this condition of psychophysical abilities but have no opportunity to go to that test because the director says – e, this one can't take the test, but this one can take the test. It's just amazing. What were you trying to accomplish with these? I'll read you the explanation in which you stated that the amendment was not accepted, but it's just amazing what the director can hypothetically do: one competition is registered to 10 people, two teachers are received and the director already knows which two will receive, and those eight will not be sent to check out psychophysical abilities and they are automatically eliminated, can't even complain and can't participate at all in the right way after the competition. This is really scandalous. What did you do this way? I would like to remind you, Mr. Minister, that in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Part Two, of Article 18, these are the basic principles, in conclusion with Article 81, they speak of human and minority rights and freedoms. You have trampled at least six basic human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Here, I'll quote Article 60(3). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to the right to work and says, "All of them under equal conditions are available to all jobs." You said this proposal did not make all the jobs available to everyone under the same conditions, because your director, conditionally speaking, will determine which of the candidates who applied to the competition can go to check on psychophysical activities. What happens next? When the test of psychophysical activity is passed, the one sent by the Director, after the others have no right, within eight days of the expiry of the time limit for filing, shall verify the psychophysical abilities of working with children and students by competent employment services, by applying standardised procedures, which is fine. Within eight days of the date of receipt of the check, the Director shall obtain the opinion of the managing authority. The managing authority, we spoke when it came to Article 16, are you so-called. social partners. In order for citizens to know what social partners are in governance bodies, we will explain to the citizens – they are sponsors. Sponsors of the school, and much more often personal sponsors of the director. That's not good either. It is not good for the state to rely on sponsors, when it comes to schools, education institutions. The state has to provide funds for that. You remember these beginnings of DOS rule, promises that every school will have a computer, every classroom computer, etc. It's, of course, commendable, because this is 2011 and every school needs a computer, every classroom should have it. They should also have an Internet connection. But he needs Mr. Minister, and in 2011, every school has a wet knot. And the other day, we were able to read in the media how many dozens of schools in Serbia still have no wet knot, but children use Polish "VC". It's something that should also be the subject of your ministry and this law. So, if you're already looking for sponsors for schools, don't let sponsors sponsor directors. The directors should work for the salary. Their salaries aren't high, they're not high wages to educators and not that they're not high, but you agree with that, and you talked about it in the days of those strikes and the public. You are aware, as we are all aware, that their salaries are inadequate for what they do. But that's also the government's problem, and maybe that problem will be solved now, because the Prime Minister said the other day that we were somehow on our feet getting sick of this crisis and that we've been through the best in the whole environment. He says that Serbia is out of crisis and that those around us are still struggling with the crisis. But, well, he's obviously looking out of his car and out of his house, and yet he should take a look at the citizens of Serbia. So who are these sponsors in the illustrating authorities, for the sake of the public, part of a letter we received from a group of parents from a school in Vojvodina. They say, "All schools in Vojvodina", I don't know if you know this, but, please, listen, "All schools in Vojvodina have been sent a memo that the government of Vojvodina assigns them a welding machine" Swiss machine. They go to school, of course, wondering what it's for and who it's for and who it's for to waste money for. These Swiss appliances were purchased with money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Who's the one who made the deal with someone from the government of the government of Vojvodina to buy Swiss machines from schools? That's what you should do. We expect the minister to find out. I'm sure he doesn't know this when he finds out he's gonna let us know. The second part of this letter says that recently, money was taken from the Vojvodina budget for the electronic system that they worked in schools for days and that the server of that electronic system was located in Hungary. Which in Hungary, apart from the state of Serbia, is really very symptomatic and at best not good. Then Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, on the initiative of the signatories of this letter, which I am now quoting, intervened and within the jurisdiction he has as the Commissioner for Public Information, managed at least temporarily to hitchhike it. But there is still a question that there is no answer – how much money has been spent on this and why has it occurred to someone that the server for the electronic system of schools in the AP Vojvodina is being placed in Hungary? Next, still a member of 130. "In the process of deciding on the choice of teachers of religious teaching, directors make a narrow selection of candidates who point to a previous examination of psychophysical skills for working with children and students. After obtaining the results of the check, the director determines whether the candidate on the list of teachers of religious teaching has been established by the minister on the proposal of traditional churches and religious communities." What can, in fact, a director who is not a representative of a traditional church and some religious community here decide? This is completely unnecessary and again the ability to determine even who will teach religious teaching. The last position of this member says, "If the managing authority," which is mostly these sponsors, and now they will be even more since you have not accepted the amendment offered by the SRS, so, "If the managing authority... "or those sponsors..." within the specified time limit, it shall not decide on the objection, or if the candidate is not satisfied with the second-degree decision, it may refer to the competent court within 15 days. "This can be said at first glance – well, this is fine. But we say it's not right. There's no legal certainty here, because there's no legal framework in the law anywhere, let's say, the possibility of disbanding that group of sponsors who won't decide to object within 15 days. They have no sanctions and they will deliberately and consciously remain silent because the law provides for them. Then, afterwards, that candidate goes to court, how long the court proceedings will take, that's what people who have some litigation know best, about someone who's half a century away will retire not before the court dispute is over. So there's no legal certainty. Now, of course, you have not accepted this amendment and the government has said why it does not accept the amendment. The amendment should not be accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for the acceptance of amendments under number 36. I'm going back here -- the amendment doesn't have to be accepted because the employment department doesn't have enough capacity to run checks on all candidates who report to the competition. For God's sakes, is this possible that there could be a reason why all the candidates in the contest don't go on a psychophysical test? If there is not enough capacity, so give the people employed, a million people in Serbia are unemployed, how highly educated. And you say there's no capacity for all the candidates to take that test. This is really scandalous. You could have found a little less nebulous explanation. You're still saying, "That's why the candidate selection process is slowing down and legal uncertainty is being created." I'm sorry, what you're doing creates legal uncertainty. Whether the selection process is slowing down, possibly, but you also hire people in the employment service, so it will not slow down this process, but legal certainty is certainly the result of this disastrous solution. The bill of law, you say, is "the decision from the bill is imposed and the fact that an examination of the psycho-physical abilities of the candidates has been carried out is only valid for 6 months." What does this mean? What does this mean? If that ability, or if it checks its abilities, that certificate is valid for 6 months, then it also applies to these candidates sent by the Director for verification and would be valid for those which the Director has not sent. You're just confirming this, what I said at the beginning, that the director knows who he's going to receive in advance, and then that he doesn't send free for a psycho-physical check and those he knows in advance that he won't receive because that confirmation he's going to get is worth six months, so if they compete in another school where he's going to go the same way in this first school, then they went to that psycho-physical test for free. I hope, Mr. Minister, yes, I am convinced, in fact, that I am the public of Serbia and that all my colleagues have convinced that what you have suggested is bad. That the adoption of some amendments that are more technical in nature does not contribute to better conditions of education and education, and I hope that through this little more general explanation I have managed to convince you. Now, recalling your views when you were an opposition MP, I'm sure you'll now press that button and say, I'm convinced, I accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58252	On Article 21 of the amendment, MP Dragoljub Micunovic submitted. The government and the Education Committee have accepted an amendment with a correction. Mr. Micunović, please. I'm just asking you to sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58253	Since the government and the Committee have accepted these amendments, I wouldn't speak for long. Let me just say a few words that I think I need here. We are today trying to contribute to education reform, but there is no other area that can be measured by reforming as persistent in our society as it was in school. As far as I can remember, and I'll tell you one thing, in 1959, I worked in one institution for reforming education and pedagogy, it's the first job here and published a text in our reality, and it's the introductory text entitled "College Reform." That was 52 years ago. So, since then, there's certainly been another one, maybe even fifty different attempts at reforming education, and that shouldn't be too surprising, because that's one area that's really getting into all the other social segments. Of course, here in the proposal, it tried to fix what could be fixed, but we need to use all the pedagogical powers we have and other social factors to get to one comprehensive, unique modern school law. I think that's what we need, not just for schools, but for more schools, universities, to follow what's going on in the world. It's not just us reforming education, it's what all countries do, it's what makes the whole world. Because society reform, technology progress, technology application, change in the structure of various professions, all of this affects the form of a school. In this amendment, which I was talking about, it's about one thing, which, unfortunately, has been done in a hurry with us. It's a question of religious teaching and the relationship between the church and the state. Neither the church was ready then to take this job seriously, it required hundreds and hundreds of believers, nor the state was ready then to reach the best possible solution in a dialogue with religious organizations, both about content and about jurisdiction, so that it would not be created in the minds of children. There were various, you remember, problems about what children should believe now, whether in God, whether in Darwin, whether in that story or in that one. How many natural sciences, on their part with their elements, manage to devour religious legends, or vice versa, how much they can relate to students of that knowledge. That's a quick question for all of us. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, for example, in elementary schools, in the first classes, there was no religion. We received catechism in higher classes, which was made in agreement with the Ministry of Education, we had scholars, and then this teaching lasted and lasted until 1946 and 1947, and many may not know it. However, everything here is left to parents. Parents define students whether they will go to religious school or go to this social, civil education. So, in a way, these kids have no choice. They don't choose. In this respect, they are some kind of objects, unprotected in some way, from these influences. Later, when children grow up, they can be quite normal. This is an important question, because we have seen it in the past, and you will hear it from even serious people from church circles and bishops who are unhappy with what this teaching looks like and how it's solved. With this amendment, we just wanted to point out that temporary solution and that there is a serious conversation that would allow this issue of religious teaching to be placed both within the system or above the system or in any way, but very precise and clear and that it does not create any confusion. It is certain that the contents of religious education must be much wider than what the believers today provide. It's a question of the history of mythology, the history of other religions, the history of religion as such, the history of culture, what you can find in all the programs of religious teaching in normal and developed countries. So I expect we'll pay a lot more attention to this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58254	Thank you. MP Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58255	I thank Madam President, Mr. Minister, this is a formal replica of your exposure, but not to rephrase it to you, but because I think that it works for the public, I need to give some answers to something that you've set up. You said earlier in your presentation that you didn't know why a meeting of the Education Committee was not invited by the Citizens' Protector. I would like to say, immediately, to all the committees of this assembly, next to the board members, they have access to it, of course, and they are also Members of the Parliament. As for authorised amendment promoters, who are not MPs, it is, of course, their turn to specifically refer to the Committee when they have amendments. However, the Citizens' Protector had no amendments. He has, however, submitted but untimely amendments and this is no longer a question for the chairman of the Committee on Education or the President of the Assembly, there is no help if amendments are submitted that are not timely. They simply cannot, however good or perfect, be considered. I have a need, first of all, to say, because it's not the first time that various authorised representatives have submitted amendments to journalists in the hallway, and it's not tolerable to the competent congregation services. If there are no more fams, if someone who is authorized to submit amendments and wants to submit them, let them submit them as they say, within and in an appropriate manner. Anything else can be stories, but they don't matter. I simply wanted to point out that, of course, the Education Committee has no way, it is not considered to be called upon to invite those who can submit amendments and have not submitted them. Of course, the Citizens' Protector wants to attend some committee of the Assembly, I don't know if there's ever been a case for anyone to stand up to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58256	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58257	Thank you. Mr. Shami, I apologize, if in any way I questioned the way that this session was called together, since I didn't know who was calling and calling. I apologize if, in any way, as chairman of the Committee, I have brought you into an awkward situation with my question. Anyway, thank you very much for the explanation you gave. Now we know what everyone is saying, we know absolutely the whole truth about the views of the Protectors of citizens. We were ready for the amendments, if we got them, we didn't get them, and we couldn't discuss them. They did not report their participation in the Committee's session, and if they had called, they would have participated, so they would have heard again. So let's keep it on one statement and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58258	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58259	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment I have submitted is purely technical, in order to be legal-technically correct, because it is obvious that it is either an oversight or a printing error, but it is not disputed. There is no question of not accepting this amendment by the government, while at the same time accepting the same amendment by the ruling majority MPs. The dispute is that this bill does not lead in any part of the amendments and additions to the depolitisation of the educational-examination system when it comes to the election and impeachment of the school and preschool directors. In such an environment, it is difficult to talk about improving the quality of education and its equality and efficiency. Problems in the functioning of the education system cannot be eliminated and conditions for its operation at the same time improved if the Ministry of Education falls to the appointment and keeping of party directors at all costs. Furthermore, the responsible authority must not allow Serbia with 27 textbook publishers to be a recordr in the environment without having strong control over the contents of these textbooks. Officials justify this with competition in order to improve the quality of textbook editions. If a history textbook for the sixth class of Radet Mikličić appears in the press and continues, we cannot help but wonder what the Republic Institute was doing to improve education and education, and what the Educational National Council and its Commission, which proposed the publication of this textbook. Whether or not they will call for the responsibility of the related persons in the printing of this textbook, which the pages of history write for the purpose and interest of Albania and independence of Kosovo, BiH, with far-reaching adverse consequences for Serbia and our children who are learning this history. At the end of the day, Mr. Minister, you simply must not allow the possibility of handing over this proposal to the National Educational Council of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, and that they have a session several days afterwards and do not put into the draft agenda the text of the law that we are discussing today and the previous days. This must not be part of our reality, nor can such a relationship and mode of work create a positive social climate for the development of education improvements. But apparently, anything is possible in Serbia today, but only until the arrival of Serbia's largest nationalist, but also the greatest respecter of all other peoples, Serbian Duke Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58260	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58261	There are a number of amendments to this article, but I'm going to take the opportunity to comment on all these amendments, but I'm going to give this amendment to the choice of teachers. You know, we just had a chance to hear all sorts of things. As far as I know, one of the biggest flows of Zoran Djindjic is the introduction of religious science. Now we see that someone is reviewing these achievements. Of course, those who have graduated from the kumbar school see this as a death threat, a religious threat in schools, and now we've heard what it looked like in 1936. I don't know why we would get into these things, and why a school director, an elementary school, would be authorized, that he would estimate on the basis of something established by the church, a religious community, I guess they know best who's qualified, to announce these theological teachings and elementary knowledge, and religion is needed for the spiritual life of each individual, and that's not the opposite of Darwin, or Galileo, or anything else. With us, it politicizes all of this, but this change-of-the-mill provision is changing because the credentials are not obedient to directors and civil authorities and civil structures of coalition authorities in some environment. If one of these activist teachers is in a patriotic organisation, in Arandjelovec, so that he can bend, then a competition can be held without Ivan Ivanovic passing. You may like him or not like him with his political views, but he is a qualified believer, about how qualified he is, he decides, first of all, that church that has issued him an appropriate certificate that he is qualified. How is it possible for the director to assess whether to join a working relationship with a believer who finished theology in Belgrade? Excuse me, please, the one who finished the theology is certainly more educated than the one who finished teaching technical education or physical education, so the combination of his yellow party he came to be head of school. I'm telling you how it happened in 2001, some gym teacher came in because he belonged to DS and put him to be the director of the best elementary school "Vozd Karajordje" in Nis, and he worked for a while as a teacher, so he says you kids make sure you don't get past the line, so in the center of Nis taught, in an elite elementary school. So, he had this Bosko Ristic, Zivkovic, he had a banana, he had this one, and that was his main criterion, and now he's going to grade his degree in theology college. Why? Some people don't like it, because the teachers still talk about some traditional values, and if they're emulated knowledge and experience and theological dogmas, but you know how with democracy, burned down the Assembly, history moves away from them, they're the best, regardless of what happened in 1947, 1948 and 1949, they're riding history, no, now they're famous, they're gone to repark this priest that parked him, they're out of time for parking, and now he's...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58262	Would you please take care of the way you speak... You always talk a lot more about yourself...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58263	No, I don't ride the priestess, I get in the car and drive. I take care, because I was in this hall in 1993 when a telegram was read from the village of Merdar where people wrote about what anyone did in youth and there was no reason to be ashamed of youth, but they should be proud of their youth what they did, if nothing else young. When it comes to that story, I immediately recognize this non-governmental sector that exerts influence. Be careful, the Serb society is failing, unless the traditional values of Serbian society are respected and the attack is there, they could not have ended it in 2001, as Djindjic said, we must release the religion, he knows why he had to do so, because Milosevic delivered it to Vidovdan and now the reviewers appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58264	But you don't have any more time. Now he has the word Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58265	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, I would like to take note of these comments that have arisen on this amendment to give certain opinions concerning the allegations of the politicalisation of the election of directors in pre-school institutions and school institutions, by the ministry or ministers, with the help of local self-government, which was not only the case now, but also in the principle debate. I've talked about this in principle debate, and I won't owe it to you now, but only briefly to remind ourselves that we have a tripartite system of selection of the school boards of nine members, consisting of three members from professional councils, or collectives, three members from the board of parents and three members from local self-government. In doing so, they are legitimately proposing to the local self-government authority, to which the local self-government assembly does not have the right to amend these proposals. The Assembly of Local Self-Government formally officialises such an autonomous choice by a collective, or parent’s advice, and rather decides on the third-third of the composition of the local self-government. To remind ourselves, the minister only gives consent to the choice made by the school board, and we assume that the collective presented with three of its members is not politicized. It is also assumed that parent advice representing students as a special autonomous body is also not politicised. Let's say that third-third is kind of because it represents certain political parties. The whole election system is so arranged that the school board chooses and proposes to the ministry, and the minister only approves. Compared to the earlier solutions we had, we had the minister determining. I will say that in 2001 I was replaced by the Minister of Education's decision in early April 2001 without any explanation in the middle of the term of office. I took that decision, and I didn't have much discussion about it, because it was such circumstances, whether I liked it or not. If the current system which has disbursed the minister is not right and is left to this way as I have explained it, please, gentlemen of the Parliaments, suggest new solutions that will depolitise the way the director is elected. Let's talk about whether there's a better way in which the minister wouldn't decide on political belongings to be elected directors. Personally, at this point I don't see a better system, but I don't think it's the most ideal solution. I'm always ready to talk about some new ideas and new solutions, but here it's said that there's politicization going on, that the political parties that are in power influence, and we have this tripartite system that's trying to make it impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58266	The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58267	Our amendment refers to this article, which I'm sure we've been discussing for the last 40 minutes. Our amendment refers to item 4, although this position 4, for the sake of public speaking, refers to the decision-making process for the choice of teachers of religious teaching. Our amendment here is just a correction of order, or procedure. It's probably a mistake here, because it says here that to decide on the choice of teachers of religious teaching, the director conducts a narrow selection of candidates, and then points them to a previous examination of psychophysical skills for working with children. When they get the results of psychophysical abilities, then they consult and see if these candidates are on the list of teachers of religious teaching given by traditional churches. In essence, our amendment was to propose to determine first whether they were on the candidate list, which is logical, and only then go to the psych test. So that's the essence of our amendment, that the order in this attitude was wrong. In response to the government, we have now heard, the amendment is not accepted because the amendment of MP Micunovic, which deletes this item 4. Well, technically, really, considering this amendment is immaterial. Now erasing this item 4 again puts us in one situation. First, the question of religious teaching is clear to all of us and it is said, it is a very sensitive question, a question that should surely be resolved in a more adequate way through the coming years. For the past 10 years, it hasn't been enough time to get rid of it properly. I respect the list of all candidates for religious teachers of all traditional churches in our country, but I respect those teachers who teach other classes in those schools, but, in this way, by eradicating this attitude suddenly in practice, there will be a situation where they have one selection procedure, and the choice of teachers in religious teaching the other. The ministry needs to find the right measure and solution, because eradicating this attitude creates some other inconvenience in schools around the election, as the choice of candidates for these teaching teachers is practically different. On the other hand, we should respect, normally, the opinion of all these traditional churches. So the ministry's thinking needs to solve this practical problem, that there are no objections from other teachers who have also graduated from other universities, who have listened to pedagogy, who have made an effort to become teachers in high school or elementary school, the same great effort. On the other hand, this part of a sensitive religious teaching, which is supposed to pass on some tradition of these traditional churches to us and be stalked in the right way. It's just my comment, since our amendment has practically really become groundless and I admit that the explanation is fine, but that accepting this amendment creates some other problems that are likely to appear in practice and that the ministry finds a way to balance and find the right solution to be pre-warned situations that can arise because of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58268	The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Here you go, Mrs. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 22. The proposal for this law has been requested that the position that is stated by the institutions can be carried out and that employees can be taken over indefinitely into the relevant jobs, with a previously signed takeover agreement with the consent of the employees, if the difference in the percentage of their employment is less than 20%, we asked that this position be deleted. Of course, we expected that the amendment would not be accepted for reasons that allow directors of two basics or high schools, let's say, what I'd say, is about who from one school to go to another and vice versa. And that, which provides for this law, without any involvement of the school administrations. We asked that the attitude be deleted for the reason that we think that this opens up the possibility of abuse, that directors can choose who will come to their school and who won't, because it excludes the participation of school administrations in all of this. Since the minister has just received a compliment that he has already reformed several laws in his term, I would use the time I have left to ask when will the members of this law be reformed regarding the professional training of teachers, to professionally, not communication seminars and something else? When will the members relating to the protection of teaching staff, professors and teachers be reformed, and not just students? When will members who will regulate, say, education inspectors in charge of schools be reformed not to be employed in local self-governments, where, of course, they will always answer only to the presidents of municipalities, and then it is clear that they will work only in the interest of local authorities? When will the members who will lead to the return of the dignity of the professor's profession be reformed? When will there finally be much more talk about education, not just discipline, databases and other things, which I think are much less important than education and student education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58270	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Micunovic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education tabled an amendment to Article 23. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is from the People's Messenger Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58271	We wanted to show that no one should actually be in the education to work for free, despite the low wages, as we said that some educators should not get a salary and a half from the average, in order to do extra work in a much smaller volume of engagement than some professor might have to work for almost an entire school year, getting six hours more to work on an object for which school cannot provide a lecturer on some other basis. Why can't it happen that, say, in October someone has to teach psychology, and that's about the guy who teaches philosophy? Maybe the man had enough philosophy classes in a high school, and now he's got to start, pick up a book and prepare psychology for six classes for three or four classes, as long as he already has, depending on his course in high school. It's going to work all year, so it won't be considered overtime. Finally, I also asked in a general discussion whether this key word "overtime", that description means free work? If someone had answered me at the time that it wasn't free, I could withdraw the amendment, it was already written, because the amendments are being written before the debate begins. But if it implies that he'll be doing six hours, almost a third of the mandatory fund as overtime, then we don't think that's logical. If we want to cultivate altruism towards our relationship with our colleagues and our school, at least let's divide it into two teachers. I was told: What if it is such a rare object, in response to the Government, so we have one teacher? Okay, so why did you put it in the plural? In your proposal you put the teachers of this subject. Why didn't you tell teachers, teachers, or simply erase this unfortunate word of "overtime"? Perhaps you'd accept the amendment, if we just didn't have this position, this dependent word "by the end of the school year". That I suggested erasing "and this work is not considered overtime". If we were, say, maybe you'd accept it. Why don't someone get paid if they're doing extra work? What does he do to prepare a new object, or maybe even that one, to do it in six hours a week more? He comes six times in a year to Belgrade and collects a salary of 50-60 thousand. It's not right, and that's what we wanted to stop, that kind of injustice against the educators. They have educators of many flaws, that's quite clear, but something that's often hit on is exactly what they don't have to hit, because it's not big expenses, because it's finally going to be shown by some kind of work. This isn't a field trip, this isn't an intervention in the selection of a company to take children into extracurricular forms, where they're all going to slip around the diaries, this or that. This isn't an appeal of sponsorship and debt to sponsorship, this is obviously concrete work, so if that's the case, here's to keeping track of your idea. We said if there were at least two teachers, then three hours. It may have been quite different, perhaps, if you had read carefully on the Committee, as an amendment from the Committee to change and, let's say, someone who might be able to have 16 hours a week more. It's every day for an hour, it's not too small, it's getting paid and who knows how. I expect, of course, correct me if it's not considered overtime but that it's going to be paid to a man, then I don't mind, then there's no point or amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58272	The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marija Bulgarčić, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Pavel Marchok. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Education accepted the amendment, with the correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58273	The amendment refers to paragraph 1. Otherwise, this member is within the framework of the Head – Transitional and Final Provisions, which states that the minister will bring sublaws within three years of the date of entry into force of this law, except when the exception is. It seemed to us that this three-year period was too long and that it was quite comfortable behaviour of this ministry, so before these changes and additions show that there are many other sublegal acts that would come from these changes and additions. You have not accepted the amendment, and we suggest a year to draw up this new sublegal act. What surprised me is an explanation, where you claim that this three-year deadline is bound to the law that we adopted in 2009, whose changes we are now doing. He says, "This law refers to a law that changes." You could have said that, starting in 2009, however, it seems here that you are giving yourself three years to make sublegal acts related to these changes and additions. This is really unacceptable, if we adopt this law by an urgent procedure which will take effect eight days after publication, and we expect it to be applied since the start of the new school year, then all these amendments that will require sublegal acts will not be applied in schools unless you do the sublegal act. Then you didn't do anything, because schools won't know how to apply these changes and supplements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58274	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education tabled an amendment to Article 31. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58275	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 31 reads this: "This law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, and the provision of Article 5 of this Law will apply from 1 January 2012. This provision of Article 5 applies to the National Educational Council and to the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults. It was our idea to tie these two advices, not to the calendar year, but to the school year. It is known that the school year begins on September 1st. After all, you gave me the same explanation when I asked why the law is changing so urgently at this short time. You said – the school year begins on September 1st. It would be quite logical for these two tips, which and how they have a great impact on work in education and great importance for this area, to start working when and schools. What you explained to me why you did not accept our amendment was, in fact, clear to us that this cannot be done because there is no money, which is planned in another way and everything is related to the budget funds early next year. Practically, the next budget will arrange for these two tips of monetary credit, which Mr. Poscurica spoke of, to be defined and can be carried out in such a way that these people are paid. We don't think it's right that you haven't rebalanced the budget. This is one of the opportunities for you to make up for then and, Mr. Minister, in a process that is very important, and that is the guidance, on your part you have one and the other advice, the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults and National Educational Council, especially the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults, which is and how great a role has played these days when those graduates in secondary vocational schools have been annulled in a very strange way and the results have shown something quite different compared to what was a few days ago. All of this together shows that these people have a big role to play and that their work should be paid from September 1st.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58276	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58277	Thank you, Madam President. Dear fellow Members of the People, let me finally say a few final words regarding the amendments and additions to this law and the solutions that are before you. First of all, I would like to thank all of you for your participation in this debate, the amendment's proposals for the effort to make these amendments. I'd like to inform you of the following. I consciously decided to tell you this at the end of today's session. If I had said it at first, then we would have talked about what the government adopted, and this is how everyone had the opportunity to express their position on their amendment. We in the government took a position yesterday on the Committee. The government of the Republic of Serbia, compared to 57 amendments to the MPs, adopted 11, adopted two more at the Committee itself, and the Committee, on a proposal from the Ministry of Education and Science, adopted seven amendments. So, a total of 19 amendments were adopted. With these changes, we wanted to improve the text of the bill, to set even more precisely legal standards and increase the level of protection of students. What we have through the amendments we have accepted have identified are the solutions relating to the standards for the regulation of the protection of personal data in the information system, provisions relating to students, staff, the composition of the school board and the right to compensation for members of the council, which was also the case through the presentation of the amendments. So, five amendments: protection of personality data, a single education information system, registers run by the Ministry, five amendments refer to this and are more precisely defined which data on students are entered into the records, rewards and student praises during education. The standard of collecting employee data is specified. In determining the purpose and processing of data, the educational aspect of education has been highlighted, defined the deadline within which the data in the records must be updated, 30 days from the date of the change. The position of the 5th member of the 125th Law, that the Ministry, at the request of a person of legal interest, will issue a copy of the register. When it comes to student rights, two amendments refer to this area. In the educational and disciplinary procedure, a student with the presence of parents or guardians and all other participants and witnesses must be heard and can and do not have to make a written statement. The reduced time limit for the initiation of the procedure for 30 days and for a particular person who initiates the procedure is for the Director. In determining the final assessment of the Government, the effects of educational or educational or disciplinary measures given shall also be taken into account. The deadline, when it comes to employees, is set for disciplinary proceedings against a dispensary worker, those are members 44 to 46. The law, two years since the injury was committed. When it comes to the composition of school boards, they have harmonised the provisions of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System with the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. When it comes to the protection of personal data, these are amendments to the Committee. We have adopted two amendments – erasing part of the norm relating to the rights of the Minister of Education and Science to regulate data protection, matter is also governed by the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, Regulation and how data are kept in registers in writing and electronic form. When it comes to the rights of students, a more precise deadline is defined to justify the absence of students for eight days, as is the solution to the Law on Primary School. The right of the student parliament to give opinions and suggestions to professional bodies, the school board, the advice of parents and the director on the choice of pupils has been reserved. When it comes to employees, the Committee has brought in one amendment. It is the right of an institution of special interest, I must stress this, for the Republic of Serbia to accept the working relationship of teachers and assistants of the relevant higher-school institution or of the staff of the scientific institute with the appropriate calling for a specified time, not more than 30% of the working time for the school year, with the agreement of the minister. When it comes to the right to compensation for the work of members of the council, the Committee adopted two amendments, that the competent committee of the Serbian Parliament will determine compensation for members of the National Educational Council, and members of the Council on Professional Education and Education to exercise this right from 1 January 2012, because the means of working for this purpose are not planned by the budget. It is also an answer to the question of colleague Vojić-Markovic, because our budget is programming, so we could not plan, that is, for this year it is not planned, which does not mean that they do not work. On the contrary, the advice does, but it does so without compensation, which still shows the attitude of these people toward work. Otherwise, when the National Assembly determines the amount of compensation to members of the National Educational Council, it will also serve the Government as the basis for a decision to be taken by members of the Council on Secondary and Professional Education and Adult Education. When it comes to employees, another amendment has been adopted. A colleague named Jon Magda has withdrawn the amendment to Article 25. It's a bill of law. To the same member, the Committee adopted an amendment with the correction of MP Pavel Marchok. A deadline has been set for disciplinary proceedings against the person employed for violation of the ban, I have mentioned members from 44 to 46 years from the injury committed and a solution has been retained that... shall run if the disciplinary procedure cannot be initiated or managed for the absence of employees for other justified reasons, in order to prevent certain gaps. The Committee's session also accepted the amendment to establish the need for additional financial support in the process of examining a child enrolled in school, and if additional support is required by financial resources, the school will send a written request to the founder, according to the interested commission. The previous solution was that, if additional support is required, the financial resources provide a written request to the health care doctor to assess the need to provide additional educational health-social support, which is determined by the interested commission. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, as you can see, we have accepted a lot of amendments, and in our opinion we have improved the content of the laws by amending and supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. In the end, just an answer to two questions. Regarding the issue of counterpart Donka Banovic, it will not be three years since the adoption of this law, but three years since 31 September 2009. It's an objection they've given us in the legislation. Three years since then, not since the adoption of this law. Otherwise, from the 41st sublegal act we've adopted 35 sublegal acts so far, and logically, we're going to take these six. We expect to pass three more laws during the fall, so more sublegal acts will be needed. Otherwise, over the past three years, we've adopted about 120 sublegal acts. At the question of counterpart Radica Jocic, we will discuss education during the autumn, not only after the amendments and additions of certain laws, but also when we talk about other education laws, then we will also discuss education in principle, and also about those topics that are the content of the proposed laws. I hope by the end of the year, at least we'll try to finish it, we'll try to make sure that even if the Committee on the Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if not the whole parliament, we can present the content of the education strategy of the Republic of Serbia, and we can discuss this document as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58278	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on APPROVAL FOR OBLIGATION OF SOCIAL OBJECTIVES pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mines and Energy and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education and Science, I have called for today's session to be attended by: Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Svetlana Kuzmanovic, Head of Finance. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Lidija Dimitrijevic, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Pelević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Colić, Dragan Šormaz, Meko Omerović, Milorad Buha, Zoran Krasić, Vladan Jeremic and Dragan Stevanovic. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 4th amendment was submitted in the same text by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, a group of 21 MPs from the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia and MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) First of all, the People's MP, Mrs Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58279	Thank you, Madam President. We've had a quality discussion with the Minister of Education in the session so far. I can't blame him for being our talker in the future, but I don't think the debate will contain the quality it was in the previous part, because this debate was meant to be attended by the Prime Minister, who is at the same time the finance minister, or at least as signed here in the bill of law that we received from his Vice President Bozidar Djelic. However, the debate will go the way it is. Now I would like to point out that I consider it good when, on some draft law, amendments to the same text are submitted by the SRS parliamentary club and by the MPs of the ruling coalition. It happened in such situations that an amendment fellow MP from the ruling coalition was accepted, and ours were rejected on the grounds that the same was already accepted, but from another parliamentary club. These are some situations where we can't be very unhappy. However, our amendment and amendment of counterpart Meja Omerovic was now rejected, otherwise the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. All of us interested in social policy clearly see the reality of Serbia. However, many laws that are adopted in such a form that they do not improve, or maintain the situation as it is right now, are making it worse. That is exactly what the draft law does and by rejecting the amendments to its Article 4, which I said was submitted by opposition MPs and MPs who are members of parties who exercise power. I would like to remind and regret that my colleague is not, that in the principle of Mr. Milisav Petronijevic, also a member of the party currently in power in Serbia, expressed a position very similar, almost identical, to the position of the SRS and that I also said that, after the words spoken, I expect concrete support, which means that in the day of voting for the SRS amendment to Article 4. I don't think it's enough for the authorities to identify the problem and bring it out to the public. Their responsibility is to solve the problems identified. We had the opportunity to be informed from the Government Office of Media Cooperation, of course through the media, that the government decided at its session that the state would cover the debt to those owners of the activities used by maternity leave and that they had received a request from the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance to retroactively settle their obligations. Also, that the government has adopted the conclusion that mothers entrepreneurs who are going to the maternity leave in the future and who have entrusted the management with the authorised manager must pay contributions on two grounds, as required by the tax administration. We also had the opportunity to hear that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy announced that the future Law on Contributions, which has been in force since 2004, will be interpreted as saying that mothers entrepreneurs who use maternity leave will have to pay a greater amount for contributions. The problem is reportedly that some branches of tax administrations misread the law for years, so the contributions were paid differently, and some women were in a more favourable position than others who had higher spending. According to the Minister responsible for this, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has proposed an amendment to this decision. However, the decision was adopted. What's done now? The government has decided to release the debt of those mothers entrepreneurs to whom they retroactively demand debts and that's fine. However, future mothers, after the adoption of this bill, will have to make payments when they trust the store with the authorised manager when they are absent to give birth to children. Before I move on to how devastating the population policy in Serbia is, I want to point out another important thing about the dilemma whether the shop will temporarily log out at a time when the entrepreneur's mother is absent due to maternity leave, absence from work for the care of the child or leave for special care of the child. Instead of a mother, no one can give birth to a child, so she has to leave for maternity leave. After that, the right to use leave of work for child care also has a father, under conditions defined by the Family Financial Support Act with children, of course, if father is employed. But now all those stories about the intention to take care of newborn health, the active support of breastfeeding policies and other stories that we keep hearing, and in practice, because of these things, are impossible to realize. One reason is, for example, the provisions of this law proposed by the SRS parliamentary club to be deleted. What is one of the most important prerequisites for the health of children and mothers who gave birth is the mother’s presence in the first year of life. Also, it must not be disturbed with the mind that the good part of the mother is the owners of such shops as bakeries, independent shops, food stores or others, in which the nature of the business is such that it involves hard physical labor and these mothers certainly do not have housewives and nannies who will protect their children and do chores for them. There are few women in Serbia who can thus organize their lives. That's one aspect. The second aspect refers to the fact that if an entrepreneur’s mother temporarily checked out because of the child’s maternity and care activities, all employees in that shop would have to be jobless or at least temporarily unemployed until the mother returned from the care of her child. What's more acceptable for this country now? That the store continues to work through an authorised manager, to work, to receive earnings, to pay contributions, to have a child's mother, or to close the store? What's the state's interest in this situation? In principle, I also argued that the decline in birth rate is drastic, that data from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy that in 2008, 30,000 babies were born less than needed for the simple reproductive replacement of the population, that in Vojvodina the rate of natural origin was minus five permeates, that the population was collected into the oldest on the planet. There is a steady increase in the number of couples who do not have any children and who are treated with sterility. More and more young girls have been suffering from benign reproductive organs. In such a situation, the state of Serbia, instead of supporting these brave women, who, above all, decide to give birth, are completely destabilised by the state's policies. I can freely say that it has a devastating effect on them, and the proof of what I'm talking about is, more specifically, one of the evidence is the bill of law we are now discussing and its Article 4. And three years ago, when this government was formed, she was baptized alone, without a godfather and priest, into a socially responsible government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58280	MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this topic about mothers has been spinning around the media for several months now, and we finally have an attempt to propose the law to regulate this by law, only that seems to me to be doing it in a pretty wrong way. The laws are written by politicians, the laws are written by professional people and the laws are written by those who do not want to accept their mistake, and unfortunately, they do not have a single working day outside of work who have worked as some professional associate or advisor in the state body, so they do not know what life is, they do not know how money is made, they do not know how to make new value. Then they can write laws like this and they may not want to accept their mistake. The SNS parliamentary group asked with its amendment to delete the next part of the text. It is in Article 4 that the person who is an entrepreneur, who makes a profit compensation during maternity leave, the absence for the care of the child and the absence for the sake of special care of the child, and the activity continues to carry out through the authorised management, to free the payment of social security tax. We have received one argument from the Government in which it is said – the basis of social security contributions for persons self-activating and taxing profits. That's right. So, a person who continues to act through another person makes some income and pays taxes based on that income. As during maternity leave, leave for child care and leave with special child care when the exercise of activity continues through an authorised manager, the person who is an entrepreneur in accordance with the law of profit compensation precisely on the grounds that his right to compensation during that leave belongs to him as a person who performs his own activity, and therefore we do not consider that there is a reason to exempt this income from paying contributions for compulsory social security, bearing in mind that that fee is considered a revenue based on the exercise of self-employed activity. But what about the pain? It doesn't exist. In order to achieve some income, do not identify a natural person who owns an independent trade or a service store with a service store, his status as an entrepreneur. He can't raise his profits from his current account unless he pays his contributions and taxes. There's a thing clean. So, his independent shop, or the catering shop, or whatever he is, is making a income that remains for her, not the owner, or the physical person. That's what he pays his taxes on. That tax has nothing to do with contributions. Now, with a way of thinking like this, you can only achieve the following things. First, as already said in the debate in principle, you can challenge such independent trade operations to close. Then what have you achieved? Em, you've lost your employees, and the entrepreneur put his firm, so to speak, in a state of rest, and now you have an obligation to pay him all those contributions that you would pay him to keep working, to keep working, to keep having workers, to keep paying taxes, to keep paying taxes, to keep paying taxes for employees and taxes for employees. It's an effect. Did you solve the problem? It may be, but it's the wrong way. There's no savings in the budget. You only have three or four more, five or six workers who are out of a job, one entrepreneur. Don't consider it, start learning what life is. Or, what if the absence is for some other reason, the diseases of the entrepreneurs - he transferred the management rights to another and that disease lasts for more than 30 days, then what are you going to do? Then you have to pay him everything by what's coming to him. No, it's your goal, so you've seen one in your anomaly, I think it's a natural thing, that the woman who gave birth has the right to maternity leave and to be freed from the payment of contributions and to receive benefits from the budget of the Republic of Serbia as any other woman who gave birth to a child and is in a working relationship. That's your problem. Or, as a consequence, you can have the following – that the entrepreneur transfers his management rights to a third party, and then gets a job as an ordinary worker in his shop. Then what are you going to do? He transferred management rights, he's getting paid over the payroll here. The law is not forbidden. They're gonna do the right thing again. Why are you forcing people to look for holes in the law, to excuse someone, to be silent in your ministry, who decided to force something out, to prove that he's right, harassing now and the National Assembly, MPs and the public to exorcise one of his own whims? Without any effect, in the sense that the effects will be positive, we're already making a mistake ourselves, not to work for the benefit of Natalie, we're making our own citizens who are filling our budget, looking for holes in the law to protect themselves from those who don't know what life is and don't know how money is made and made. It's nice working at the state administration. Every morning you come to work, you work or you don't work, everything depends on your boss directly, depending on your conscience, and you know you'll get paid on the fifth and 20th. But to replace the stakes a little bit, to give up the state's mantle, to go out on your own, to create for yourself, to make your own money in a legitimate way, and you'll see what kind of trouble it is. You'll see how big that is. You'll see what the problems are. Well, when an inspection comes in, it deliberately knocks down the prices to write the application, so the workers on the break go after why they don't wear working uniforms, so you're asked to have hair in the egg to write you an application. You even have situations, that the person is sick and has transferred her powers to another person, but the application is written because there's no official note in "APR," and the law doesn't say it has to be. Then someone makes you complain to the Ministry. Of course, the Ministry will support its inspector. Then you go to court, so until you prove it's right, you'll spend both your nerves, and time, and money and you'll draw other inspections while it's doing all that. Today it seems like being an independent entrepreneur. Not to talk about all the other stuff that looks like, that they're even looking for non-food goods, if it's stopped by traffic police, you can't drive goods in a private car. He doesn't have anything else. He drives a 15-year-old flag to make money. Get out of those cooled offices and official cars of yours. Let's go and see what it looks like. Then we can talk about whether this has a legal basis or not. Legally, you'll always find a basis. But on the other hand, how harmful is that? I don't know if those who write these changes and supplement the law will ever be able to understand. Because of all this, the SNS in the voting day will not vote for amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58282	National MP Zoran Krasic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58283	This amendment submitted to Article 4 shall have its natural extension and shall form a link with Article 11. If I may say so, they are filed there, synchronised, amendments. Article 22 and 58 The bill, or the text of the law, makes one whole. I will take the opportunity to talk about both, since these three amendment applicants have submitted almost identical amendments to Articles 4 and 11. It's a bill of law. So that I don't spoil what Lydia Dimitrijevic explained a little while ago, what's the basic problem here, I can only say that I don't understand why it's changing like this? I don't get it, and why didn't exactly this be determined, and that some of the principles in force are respected, in the wider tax policy? I'd go in a row. The subject is entrepreneurs of women who are on maternity leave, or are fostering a child, etc. Article 22 of the law states what the basis of the contribution for entrepreneurs is. It draws a conclusion when it comes to women. The first two three positions, I must say, are correct. There's no regrets. Then out of the blue comes the fourth attitude. This is Article 4. Proposal for a law amending this Act. It's completely unnecessary. He doesn't talk to previous opinions at all. Why? Because different matter is being treated. At first I must draw attention, you have given the definition of entrepreneurs in Article 6 of the Law – the entrepreneur is an insurance company, a natural person who performs an independent business, professional and other activity in accordance with the law on which the income tax is paid on citizens' incomes on self-employed activity. It pays income tax on citizens based on income on self-employedness. The registration itself and the status of entrepreneurs is related to the physical face and to its some professional, productive and other abilities. He can be contacted by employees, but as an auxiliary task force. An entrepreneur, as a legal person in legal traffic, cannot exist without a natural person whose name is registered. This is where fusion, names and last names are created with their abilities, registration and legal status and can be done by people he employs. To understand what an entrepreneur is, as some concepts are being chased here. Furthermore, point 21 is said in the same article – the compensation is a fee that is realised as a right from the funding of the organisation of compulsory health insurance, as well as compensation under the law governing the financial support of the family with children. The starting point is profit compensation. An entrepreneur in a legal and technical sense doesn't make a profit. Profits are made as a result of how much his workforce costs to employers. An entrepreneur doesn't have an employer, he makes income. This is where the term "indemnity fee" is used in Article 8 paragraph 1 point 4 and 5 and is later placed, by some logic, in Articles 4 and 11. It's a bill of law. Here, the "earning fee" is used more as a termological term, because it literally needs to be accepted by the terminator of this law. The term "earning" doesn't answer when it comes to foster workers, or when it comes to entrepreneurs at all. He's not answering, because what he's accomplishing is income. It is he who earns the income with him, and he who receives the gain is with the employer. Now there's someone smart who's blocking what all the amendment applicants are talking about. I guess a child is wanted to appear in Serbia and should be stimulated, because if this logic is maintained then the health ministry is investing funds in artificial insemination for free. I remind you of the term set out in the same Article 6, 23 A: "The persons for whom the funds for payment of contributions are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia," which says "a natural person who, in the sense of the law governing the system of compulsory health insurance and under the conditions prescribed by that law". Some faces are listed here, and there's actually a theme that opens up. What's the topic? This change has one fundamental illogicality. One is a debtor, the other is the one who is the payer, and the third is the one who provides the funds. Who provides funds to a foster parent who's an entrepreneur for a fee? State, right? Who pays off those funds? Through her, through the entrepreneurs? Why? Why doesn't he pay directly for the state? So the profit compensation, as defined here, should rightly be the compensation for the lost income on the basis of the maternity leave that the state pays. Now, let's talk terms. Why would that be the income of an entrepreneur? Well, she's not giving birth to a child entrepreneur, she's giving birth to a woman, a physical face, a mother. Right? And you defined your wife, mother, your physical face as an entrepreneur or what Gordana Komić would do – an entrepreneur. Then comes the whole problem that you've tied motherhood to entrepreneurship. Why? Unnecessarily. That's why you have this situation with Article 4 and Article 11. Article 11 says this: the state will pay for it, the woman, the entrepreneur, in maternity, through its entrepreneurial business, and as soon as it comes to the expense of the entrepreneurial business, it enters the system of taxable profit and income. Why does that even get into it? I guess she took that fee, as you say, not as an entrepreneur, but as a mother. She took it as a mother. You completely unnecessarily made a complication because someone wanted to smart out of the IRS with terms. Why would the payment of that fee go through an entrepreneurial store? The competent state or para-state institution shall pay as a natural person. Because that payment, listen to me, represents the income of the family. Then let the Parastate Authority pay taxes and contribute, don't burden an entrepreneur as a legal person led there by a man so that just a simple store doesn't go out. And the fact that he runs that store should have the status essentially of the company's employee. You've made an unnecessary problem. Absolutely unnecessaryly created problem. So, the state, the para-state body provides funds to pay the family benefits it has??? So the state provided the funds. On the basis of payment, the state should pay taxes and contributions, and to give birth as a physical person, mother, she is primarily a mother and her status as a entrepreneur is something else. It pays a nice net fee and solves the problem and is not burdened by the account of the company's shop. During the time she receives maternity, and the entrepreneurial shop proves successful, that her acquisition is not based on work, but on the fact that she owns a business store and pays taxes and other obligations. You've unnecessarily confused it, and then, probably someone at the Department of Income remembered after two years, let's falsify those solutions because it doesn't go out of date, it seems to me in five years, let's go back and get some work done. I'm just uncomfortable with whether someone can understand that a woman entrepreneur with one of her own stores has two employees, that while she's a foster parent, she can make such an enormous profit, an enormous benefit that won't be somehow registered and recorded by the competent state authorities. I'm telling you, that's impossible. Why is it impossible? In our Serbia, a successful business only companies that have tax evasion, companies that work under the law, pay taxes, contributions, electricity, water, phone, everything else are inevitably a loser and regardless of the organisational form, the owner of the capital must out of the straw to get the money out to resuscitate the business. It's just that someone's answer is to talk about a good condition, about legality, and so on. bind it to the cat on the tail. Start with the hairdressers, and get to the middle company with 50 to 100 employees, see if they can open their souls to you. Positive business, so-called. A positive zero is only possible if tax evasion is carried out. Some can be successful if the younger one opens up. Ten thousand euros, the Development Fund, some funds much cheaper than bank loans, 70 to 80 percent of our economy doesn't have its own crafts assets and has to report to banks to secure funds. You know how credit bankers pull out their ears and what the interest is. This is where it came from, a guess, some clerk, that she's going to get compensation from the state, that she gave birth to a child and that she's having a child, and that she's supposed to care for a child, God forbid she's sick. But her shop still works and she didn't check out the store. If she had checked out the store, she would have proved she was in a social position that the state should pay. The state has to pay if every year we have 30 to 40,000 people who die more than they are born. People, please, the state has to pay, it has to stimulate it, there's no other choice of sea. If it has to be stimulated, so don't make these women who keep their own stores and some crafts or do some business, don't make their lives miserable. Em needs to go look at that store so the workers don't steal it, she needs to nurse that kid, she needs to solve some other problems. So, the existing regulation has a solution to these problems, and here someone, I think these two members are in charge. It's not that big of a consumer price index and what you put in for these priests, I don't know why you even used the priest's term when there's a minimal change of existing law, it's really a minimal change. I'd say almost an internal thing inside the priestly ranks, doesn't deserve attention, but it's first placed. Why? To move on to the penalty of those who say, that's where Serbia becomes a religious state, the priests, their social welfare, are funded. So what if we don't finance, I don't know why we don't finance? Why would that be forbidden? I don't see any reason why it would be banned. How are other countries doing? The richer they are, the more gallant they are. We have this syndrome. You know what it's like in Serbia? When they start attacking Serbia, these ours, they start with an argument even the UN tribunal doesn't use. They're going worse than the Hague tribunal. For example, this scientist, who invented these two members, needs to be kicked out of the state service urgently because his rigorous approach to legal norms, such as Mrs. Comic, a physicist when applying legal standards. It's a disaster for the country. She calls a member there, writes something about a member, and she makes an elephant out of that member, not a mosquito. So you have in the Administration of Income or in the Ministry of One Man who sat down and went from principle – every income should be taxed, any income that has the character of personal income should support the payment of contributions, because there is therefore health, pension and disability insurance for cases and the end. And that's his approach. If you take only that approach he's really right, but it's the wrong approach. That's what makes the politician and the father different. It must stimulate the birth of children, it must enable these women to solve the problem. I gave you one solution how. If that's what funds pay that fee, let them pay it to a woman like a physical person. He doesn't have to go through the company store account. Why? All those who receive compensation in the same way receive compensation. Why are you making a mess? Who provides the money, who makes the payment, who gets the money? That's three completely different ideas. It's only here for technical matters in some areas of the firm or entrepreneur of the intermediary, something that bridges between a state and a natural person, a citizen, no matter what status, which, under certain conditions, exercise some rights. So that's the whole point. Obviously, there's no mood for you to regulate it. The main argument in the rejection of this amendment is you know which word – the proposer considers, and then the word, which is why these three amendments are rejected identical, the promoter believes, his Majesty Mirko Cvetkovic considers. Now I expect you to change some laws and introduce new crimes of awe. Everyone is subject to a criminal responsibility that does not show a sufficient amount of awe for His Majesty, for His Majesty considers it. Like the ones in The Hague, I have the togue, I am absolutely infallible. I'm not ruining your European time, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Leave some room for us who are not for the EU, that we use our anti-European time to convince. Look how well we're doing this persuasion. Eighty percent will not hear of the EU. Right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58284	You're re-reading data that doesn't match the truth, and the promoter is government, not individual. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58285	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, here's our eighth law and eight times we're making amendments. We are very persistent because we believe that, for formal and real reasons, it must not be done as is done by the legislator of this law, and by the seven laws in which we meet the indexation. It started with the Budget Law, the Budget System, the Excise Act, the Tight Interest Act, the Obligation Insurance Contribution Act, the profit of enterprises, and so on, I don't know if I missed any. The SRS position in a formal legal sense we proposed every time, by law you made an indexation, and so you solved in all the laws that appear – the consumer price index and you solved the dilemma. There's no need to waste time. We're wasting time now. Here, we're boring now, and in every law where the consumer price index appears, we change it, we have what we think is important and valid, and later I'm going to say why, I'm telling you, don't waste your time, there's no need. You're wasting your time, you from the Ministry are coming here, here's the minister here, instead of going to do important and vital for education he has to stay here instead of regulating it by one law. Minister, is that right? You have more important and more important, more valid things to solve, here you have to listen to me and the representative of the SRS and keep telling you the same thing over and over again. We're right. If we were right, we can clearly show it through other regulations where you were consistent. Just because the SRS is proposing, we won't now. It's always the same explanation. We always say what we think in the amendment. What you're proposing, the consumer price index, is for us, and for you, you say it openly, in this amendment, that it's statistical data, consumer prices. For us, this is a category that is less valid, too much statistical data. It is traffic data and maintains certain movements and certain relations in the transport of goods and services and prices and services and goods. On the other hand, it's a commercial feature of that legal concept. You have far more valid, what we suggest, here we try this eighth law, in our proposal, to be the reference interest rate of the NBS. And she's not adequate data to index the increase in value either. Why both are not so valid, but the NBS reference rate is far more valid. Because it reflects more financial and fiscal data, that's what we pointed out and we spread that story about what the NBS reference rate means. Unfortunately, however, you did not accept that. From the point of view of the SRS, it is not acceptable to change not only this indexation data but also all other changes to this law, because in practice we have huge problems, and we have pointed out to you, don't go into cosmetic changes, they are unnecessary. Do a proper analysis. The finance ministry needs to come out with a proper analysis of the problem of the economy. The economy is full, the citizens are full, the revenues on this basis and the contributions based on the profits of some other donations are insufficient. We have fewer funds in the budget, we have fewer funds in the funds and we need to make a real analysis from the government and the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions. The Union of Employers, Chamber of Commerce, Entrepreneurs, etc., seek, cry for tax cuts and contributions. I can't stand the conditions in which they work and tend. First of all, they're indivisible, they're over-indebted, they're exposed to huge competition, they're disabled to do normal business, do business, search, cry, etc. In the means of information, they could only receive information that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is doing some comparative analysis, monitoring what is going on in the region, what are the rates of contributions and taxes in Europe, in a wider environment and looking for exits from such a difficult situation in which our economy is located. Why didn't you wait? Why didn't you bring your circumstances into line? The Ministry of Government will probably go, because that's the need, you're exposed to it. Here in this Assembly a month and a half ago was Parliament of enterprises and one fantasticly well-organised meeting of all stronger businesses, small enterprises that employ over 250 large enterprises, over 250 workers with huge incomes and huge profits. What are they looking for? What's their first condition? It bothers them, the contribution of this moment is the highest in Europe, give a cut and give some air so that we can work and attract normally. We're going to work, we're going to do much better, we're going to be more productive, we're going to be more efficient, we're going to pump into a budget system far more resources, just give us the opportunity to survive these difficult times. The employers' union has been here for three, four years, the Chamber of Commerce, give it a cut and do one analysis. But this government doesn't seem to care, just go ahead, take, kidnap, inspection on the ground, let's just cover just what we need most, etc. To cover the deficit that is increasing year by year. What's our practice? All 26% of business entities regularly settle tax liabilities and liabilities in the payment of contributions, only 26%. Up to 15 days it pays 15%, 11% to 30 days and 48% over 30 days. Look, if we say 48% of business entities are making peace for over 30 days, there are those who don't settle for months, even years. When we add to that another 70,000 blocked companies, and add that somewhere in the middle of last year there were total contributions and if we add interest to some 560 billion during this year, it will be 700 billion dinars of unpaid contributions from PIO and the Health Insurance Fund. Then we're talking about real essential concern for this area and it's just a wonder that the government doesn't see these problems of the economy, of the citizenship, of the workers who need to earn money for their work, and that's where taxes and contributions are paid, etc. Then we have one lap. If it stops, then we have problems. The PIO Fund, we know for ourselves, is about 45 percent charged through budget donations. If we just do a little analysis, I'm just going to do two three figures, three to four years ago, it started somewhere in 2007, with 98 billion, and now it's 230, and this year it's going to be a far larger amount. The budget rebalance you have to make, which you had to make and look at again in revenue, expenditure, etc. Here, we see, the analysis you did two days ago. We see that budgeting is somewhere with 45% of what's planned in six months. That's a little bit. We are expected again by the summer moon and problems etc. It will continue to culminate. We can only expect weaker budgeting compared to what is planned. Under such conditions, the economy cannot work, it goes to the black market. We today have over 40% of all goods and services on the black market. Is it in this situation that the one who settles taxes and contributions neatly and the one who is on the black market is in an equal match? Are they even? They're not even. So it is the business of the living, the working, and the paying regularly, and the saying, "Come on, help." You've allowed monopolies to do whatever they want, not pay, that mesmerized states, get based guarantees, etc. certain benefits by the state. On the other hand, you've allowed a huge part of the economy to go to the gray market without paying anything, and we're the ones who have to, who are forced, because we're being forced by inspections and all the other institutions mostly by force. I will point to a phenomenon that is very characteristic and that is harmful to the state interests of the Republic of Serbia, and two examples. One refers to pension payments from Slovenia and pension payments to Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. The agreement between Serbia and Slovenia was signed in September 2009. The agreement provides for the possibility of payment and payment of all those Serbs who lived and worked in Slovenia by 1991. What did Slovenia do in 1991? She took the right to pay off pensions to all Serbs, no matter what. It made it impossible for all those who worked, who were in employment relations in Slovenia, to make it impossible for when they retired that value of their work, i.e. the job internship to be valorised through certain means, a particular part of the pension that would be coordinated by the Pension Fund of Slovenia. The parliament ratified the agreement in autumn 2009. Today is the seventh month of 2011 and only a few dozen Serbian pensions that worked in Slovenia were put into the process, they got a pension payment solution and they get pensions. What about the other nearly 8,000? Simply 8,000 Serbs who have worked and exercised a certain right in Slovenia and today hang. In the meantime, people have died, but it's about the following means. The average pension in Slovenia is about 800 euros. I guess in about 15 years, the average working age of Serbs who worked there with some subsequent difference from 300 euros to 8,000, it comes about 28m euros a year, so times 20 years, that's 560m euros. This is the state that the Pension Fund of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian citizens, pensioners on a variety of grounds, are asking for from the Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. What seems to speed up this process? I was present when there was a Slovenian delegation and we talked to them about this case and pointed to this problem. They said it was all in the process, etc. That was last year somewhere around this time. Here, there's no stepping out for a year. The problem is that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are not seeking these funds. It's a lot of resources. The funds will spin in the financial system of the Republic of Serbia and we will all have barbers from it, but it does not work. As for Croatian pensions, too, the worst form of discrimination – the confiscation of acquired rights. About 50,000 pensioners have achieved that right in Croatia. In addition, we have to add somewhere 20,000 Serbs who had the right to disabled supplements, etc. Fifteen thousand military and peacetime pensioners with various forms of benefits and about 5,000 social assistance users. The Croats also denied the right and the possibility of obtaining pensions from all those who were not in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, I mean the areas of Republika Srpska and beyond. It's about huge resources. From 1991 to 1998, no form of communication of the Republic of Croatia's Pension Fund with Serbs who have exercised that right. After 1998, only parts of the Serb population achieved that right individually. It's only since 2003 that this payment begins. What Serbs are looking for is moving in enormous financial sums. Some account is up to 18 billion euros. If we figure out a base plus interest over the last 20 years, it's a huge asset. What does it seem to help these people to gain and achieve long acquired rights? Nothing again. Slovenia nothing, Croatia nothing etc. It is similar in Macedonia, and the only orderly co-operation is with BiH, where from the first moments when the established relations started to regulate. And there are problems, but not like this. What do you say in the end? As an authorised representative, I think this is wrong. The government and the government rather than thoroughly prepare a proper analysis, to make a strategy of what to do by the end of the year, what to do in 2012 to overcome this crisis. In 2012, it is an election year, there is no point in saying that any state authority will make any analysis and start with certain measures. So, in 2011, we're going through this the way we do, and our economy is cramping in our problems. In 2012, there will be an election process, an election process and only sometime in the middle or before the end of the year we will get the government. The government won't have any measures because you haven't done any analysis, you haven't prepared any measures. We can only expect it from mid-2013. Will we have a chance by then? You have to give the answer, because the situation in which the economy is currently in place is such that we can expect, here, the IMF has given us the right picture – 400,000 people have been out of work since the start of the crisis, from mid-2008 to 31.12.2010. Some economic analysts say no to 400,000, 540,000. It is expected in mid-2011 by mid-2013 again 200, 300, 400, 500,000 people without a job, it is tragic, this is a solution, this is no solution. This is just one simple cosmetic change to agree with each other, etc., unnecessary and very harmful, not only on the legal system but on the national interest of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58286	The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58287	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since members of the 8th and 9th and 10th are alike, I will speak of a single amendment. So this is about that there is a certain tax exemption, but payment of contributions during a certain period of time for persons under 30 years, for persons who are disabled and for persons who have spent 53 years of their lives, so to stimulate the employment of such persons in 2006, certain reliefs have been given to employers, regardless of whether they are entrepreneurs, whether they are legal persons employed by these groups of workers. It may have been a good idea, but because of the overall economic situation in the country, it hasn't produced any certain results, and instead of having a reduction in the number of unemployed, we have an increase, and we can't just blame the global economic crisis, we can blame the banking sector, we can blame unfair competition, we can blame the government that's responsible for all those macroeconomic situations that arise that many companies are bankrupt, many entrepreneurs have checked out their actions, we have an increase in the number of unemployed. It may also be okay to mention in the law itself, that an employer who benefits for a particular person or used the exemption of payment of contributions on a different legal basis in accordance with the relevant regulation cannot, for the same person, be free from the payment of contributions provided for in this Article, that is, in Article 8 and 9. And 10. However, the other day, we had an amendment to the Law on Income Tax, the same provision. We still don't know what the other legal basis is. In the official legislation, there is no other legal basis. What other laws are these? They don't exist, as far as I know. Is there any other legal basis that's not the law? Although there is, then as MPs we should know, if it is, for example, a regulation or if it is a tax relief. We talked about this government, instead of stimulating exports and by stimulating exports to new jobs, it stimulates foreign businesses, regardless of whether they are export-oriented or will work exclusively on the domestic market. We know that some jobs are paid three, five, ten thousand euros for certain employers, with conditions to be a foreign person, to have a brand, as you like to say, and you've announced that it's being paid, so even there was a conflict between, I think the Kings, Zajecar, where is the "burning" opening? Who gave better conditions? Why did the minister, then Minister Mladjan Dinkic cancel the contract, appear to me in the Kingdom, not sure and transfer it to Zajecar? Because he is supported by Bosko Micic, etc., and 10,000 euros per employee. I have repeatedly asked the MPs, my colleagues who will vote for this law, does anyone know how to open a factory if you give him 10,000 euros per employee? Everyone will know. If he doesn't know the MP, he shouldn't even be doing this job. That's what's public. We know that they have received free building land, free utility connections, electricity, and I'm still interested in whether the Government may have freed them by means of a regulation or by some other act of tax and contributions for employees over two years? That would be really too much. We gave them everything for free, and we paid them for every employee, and we gave them more to free them and pay for their contributions. So let us free them from taxes and customs and all that. Let them be completely privileged on the market. No one can convince me it's a normal and healthy policy that the government needs to lead. It's just politics because of short, small political points. Limited to one small environment or territory, or call whatever you want. What are the effects - we don't know. As we do not know what the effects of this basic law are when this and the tax relief and this relief are given on contributions to health insurance. I don't know, but it's important that there seems to be a lot of things going on that the National Assembly doesn't know that the MPs don't know, because one former minister who says, "I'm no longer in the government," but his party is, and he's the party's president. Because of its political ambitions and survival in the political scene after the next election, the entire state, all citizens, must be victims of its political aspirations and ambitions and avoid liability under the law. If the amendments and additions of this law are made through Articles 8, 9 and 10, only one small attempt to eliminate the consequences of such a pest, then this government is doomed. That's why I don't care, but the problem is that the whole state is doomed. I don't want to get into everything that this gentleman's been messing with, meddling and ruining everything. That would be a different story, and I doubt she could apologize today. Tell us once what other legal basis is, on the basis of which you have freed certain entrepreneurs and employers from paying taxes on the income of citizens and paying contributions to compulsory social security, that we know that those who will also know who will vote to amend and supplement this law, and that we, among other things, will know why we from the SNS will vote against amending and supplementing this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58288	The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, to whom I give my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58289	The text of our amendment in front of the SRS is the same as when it comes to Article 8 of this bill. We're probably now if there's some law that needs to be adjusted in terms of a little price change by a consumer price index, we'll probably write some amendment then, but we'll have to raise our hands, because there's obviously no need to convince more, since we've said everything. What is the difference in these statistical methods? Both methods belong to the determination of the price growth to a small extent. In the consumer price index, the impact of those prices that are controlled by the state is cast out and therefore the nominal amount of the consumer price growth index is lower than the low price growth rate, which is higher. When the price growth rate is followed for a little over one month, it is said 1.1, and when the consumer price index is monitored, it is said 0.9. It can be different, depending on the change in price and how much weight it draws which goods and at what rate the price changes. So this wouldn't be complicated, and we're obliged to speak in folk language, in Serbian, so that everyone understands us, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that's how I'd describe it - when you jump 20 dinars, you pay 20 dinars more expensive. In the price growth index for a little bit, that's going to be probably 0.7. But now that you pay 20 dinars more, when measured by the consumer price index, it will be 0.1 and then Mirko Cvetkovic will say that it is an epochal result, that it is good and that are two parallel lives, in statistics and in reality. In particular, Articles 8 and 9. The proposal for this law concerns the indexation of the obligations of employers. If the employer fails to fulfil his obligation, instead of returning the funds he received increased by the rate of growth prices to a small one, now increased by the consumer price index and this turns out to be virtually appropriate to employers. But this change is not done to suit or suit employers, but because of Eurostat, because we have to enter these European standards and the European statistical standard is precisely that consumer price index. It's going to be all over your head like a big boomerang and I'm not going to waste any more words about this, because in a few previous laws where this has also been changed, we've even read the weight list for each product and we've managed to prove that the government is running away from this situation, not to bear any responsibility, but statistics record and record it, and that's it. To go back to what's the central theme of this law that's changing. I just told you that the only argument used by the Government when it refuses these amendments is like this – we do not believe that there is any reason to exclude this income from paying contributions to compulsory social security, given that this fee is considered revenue based on the performance of its own activity. How can profit compensation be considered an income based on the performance of an independent activity, when it is for the income generated by the status that someone was an entrepreneur, so he became a mother? Simple and simple, see what they can put into this argument. Serially, terms are pounding, just to be said – we will not accept that amendment. The central question is, what is behind this operation? What's so dangerous that he hides, so he's camouflaged with terms and these other things? I can't figure out that someone's afraid that a lot of women are going to open up entrepreneurship stores and that at least 70, 80,000 of them are going to go on maternity leave. It will endanger the Republic of Serbia's budget. Unbelievable. I wish that would happen, that so many children would be born. We have a weird system of values. Do you know, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic? That every Serb living in KIM territory at 65, as they say, if he accepts Kosovo citizenship based on 65 years of life gets 45 euros in social benefits? If he's got 15 years of work in the space of that so-called. An independent Kosovo gets another 150 euros. You don't know that. Do you know what pains people have to exercise their right and collect their claims on the basis of something sacred? It is a pension, where time is calculated, paid contributions etc. But it only happens to us, no one else does. Then the conclusion of a kind of discrimination on a national basis is drawn. Our silences, they develop good neighbourly relations, because it is a condition for the EU, friendship, good neighbourly relations, and we will get a paraphras and we will go to the EU. That's the whole policy. Because of the EU, there can be murder and fish and everything, it can stop anything and everything. It's just amazing. Turn politics around, put in the centre of the policy of citizens, a citizen who lives here, who needs to solve his life problems and life issues, here on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. No, you have the EU, the EU is above all else. That's what particularly affects you. You don't choose funds, you just register negative results. Here's a rebus for Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. One epochal result quite from October 5, 2000 to this day. Take it when you're in opposition and now that you're in power. Say one epochal result. Does he have any epochal results? Okay, well, you've achieved that national trust, it's on other grounds. Find a good result. There isn't. I don't mind, take a picture, brag, go to this index at this rate, make it all right. Your popularity is growing. I can't make mistakes. They can't wait to see you because you're the solution to all human problems. It is much better to withdraw this bill, if not because of us for what we said, then because of Rasim Ljajic who said he would definitely solve the problem of maternity care, which is also entrepreneurs. That's what you promised. You may not know, but Lidija Dimitrijevic read to you a few times before from the papers, what were the statements and why it was started. I'm just embarrassed, where's Meho Omerovic? He wrote nice amendments. I told him today at the Finance Committee session -- come Meso, I'll support this, let me explain, I don't agree how you wrote it, but I'll give you the reasons why this should be accepted. There isn't. Why? It won't be in the journal. As soon as he's not in the journal, he's not in his life, you know how it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58290	The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 members of the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, to whom I give my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58291	Thank you. The SRS Parliament Club has submitted an amendment to Article 10. A bill of law relating to persons with disabilities. Article 45b. The basic law defines that an employer who, indefinitely, employs persons with disabilities is exempt from the obligation to pay social security contributions, which are paid on the basis of, or on the burden of, the employer's assets for a period of three years from the date of establishment of the working relationship of that person. It's in the basic law. The promoter now says – employers who have used or used the exemption from payment of contributions under another legal basis under the relevant regulation cannot make the same person’s exemption from payment of contributions from this article. The SRS disagrees with this because it does not improve the quality of a person's life with disabilities. As we have heard from many previous speakers, Articles 8 and 9 now suggest, when it comes to persons over 50 years of age, members under 30, as well as persons over 45 years of age for whom contributions are calculated at rates reduced by 80%. For these categories of debtors, we have not submitted amendments, but when it comes to persons with disabilities, we really cannot agree with what is proposed. We are all witnessing that when the International Day of Persons with Disabilities is marked, we are constantly hearing stories about improving the quality of their lives. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has also been adopted. Some shifts are constantly potentiating, but data from the National Employment Service are devastating. I got the data from October last year that says the job's looking for 20. 470 people with disabilities, of which 6,644 are women. Almost half of the people with disabilities on the National Service record have primary eight-year education, and the other unfinished or completed high school, with a degree in higher school having 349 and a college 259 persons. Under these conditions, the bill now restricts the use of individual benefits by employers. We believe that, when it comes to this category of insurance, employers who hire them should be allowed to use the exemption from payment of contributions even though they have already used the release on a different basis. If so, there may be opportunities to repair the picture provided by the National Employment Service. What the legislator of this law really needs to deal with are daily protests outside the Ministry of Economy and the Belgrade City Assembly. Every day, all DES employees, companies for professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities in restructuring, who expect their problems to be solved, and note that they would be able to employ another 30% of people with disabilities, besides the existing 52%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58292	The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milorad Buha and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Buha, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58293	We asked Article 11 to be deleted for a number of reasons, for a particularly legal and technical nature. For the sake of the public, I will read: "When an entrepreneur earns a salary for the duration of maternity leave, a leave of work for the care of the child and a leave of work for the special care of the child, and the activity continues to carry out through authorised management, accounting and payment of contributions on the basis of that income on behalf and for the benefit of the entrepreneur, a person who, according to the law, performs the tasks of the authorised manager." This is an empty legal formulation. Why is it empty? Because the Law introduces a legal category of authorised management who, on behalf of and at the expense of entrepreneurs, performs all the tasks he and the manager performed while he was able to carry out those tasks. So we have regulated matter in legal traffic. So, the authorised manager has all the rights and obligations and his authorised representative who authorised him to carry out all the work he has and as a manager on his behalf and for his account. Why do we now repeat something already in legal traffic? So, if he has the right to make payments, to negotiate, he has the right to pay taxes and thus contribute. Why are we now installing in this law some matter that has already been defined by some system process? In this case, this is a regulation of less importance, less legal value compared to one system regulation which inaugurated authorised management, entrepreneurs with the same rights and same obligations. Unnecessarily, you have two such members and we've been looking for, for a reason we've been looking for an erasure. All of what you're saying in an explanation, and the explanation is far and wide, etc. It doesn't stand. On the other hand, why do we find this unnecessary to define? Article 58(1) speaks of completely other matters than those set out here and the proposed position 2. Those two attitudes don't match. One doesn't agree with the other, and one doesn't need something that doesn't belong to this member. First, normative law is wrong. On the other hand, you did not comply with those points 1 and 2. It's unnecessary to insert. What do you need? It is necessary to do what we have pointed forward and what is promised by the authorities. A one-time pension payment has been promised and the PIO Insurance Fund said in mid-2009 the following – in a few months we will start a single pension payment. Everyone in the government supported it. He says so - our analysis says that this will save 900 million dinars of unnecessary payments, unnecessary processing, fewer workers, etc. It's a total of over 10 billion dinars based on this savings. But there's not enough funds in the PIO fund and there's never been a real analysis. This is a real analysis -- 10 billion dinars -- that's a total of the PIO fund of 53 thousand average pensions that we needlessly throw into the wind every year just because we didn't have the strength to go to a one-time pension payment. We retire, we administer, we process, we calculate, and so on. Speaking of pension funds, we have to point out, that's what we said in the principle debate, there were various abuses, unpunished abuses. Since 2003 and 2004, financial police have identified various abuses. First, unnecessary funding, illegal financing of the non-governmental sector, individual organisations that hacked into the system, were paid by hat and hand. Thus, the Union of Employers, since the chairman of the Management Board in 2005 and 2006 was a man who was later appointed president of the Union of Employers. He received a donation application on behalf of only one year of 96.5 million dinars and never those funds so not legally recovered. One business analysis found that 22 million dinars were paid to various associations, etc. She has ordered the financial police to return the funds and only part of the funds has been recovered. What is the current problem is that during 2010, the PIO Fund, through certain severances, included a certain social programme from the system of 461 employees and left with severance. That is why around 2m euros were spent unnecessarily because 100 new workers were planned immediately for 2011. What is the fate of these former workers now? They found a nick in some other state institutions. Thus, a lady, Slavica Totic, took 20,000 euros and hired as assistant director of the Republic Property Directorate. See what we're doing? We give huge severance and then the worker goes to another state institution. Do we have a valve to stop it? We don't. We don't have legal regulations to ban it. Is this what any other country does? Do we have such a practice somewhere in the region? There's nowhere to go. Once a worker gets severance in a state-run body, a state-run organisation, there is no longer the possibility of hiring in a state-run organisation. He can work in private. That is the essence, to reduce expenditure. Public spending is also necessary for us to reduce and pay workers to leave and give them certain benefits. Where he's going to get a job, that's his business. That's why he accepts it. The social program of such a foundation is voluntary. So no one's making anyone here, but, if you want, go. This abuse should worry. Who? State institutions, because state institutions only verbally advocate a reduction in public spending. If we have spent two million euros on the social programme and severance, we must not allow someone to get out of the country again and thus benefit public spending through the form of profits, taxes, contributions, etc. The bill promoter violates the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. The law provides for the establishment of the Fiscal Council. The task of the Fiscal Council is to give an opinion on every bill, they certainly do so, in those situations where they benefit from it. When in their interest, as was the law on decentralisation, when it was in their interest, you took a negative opinion from them, whether under political pressure, political volunteerism, or it was the result of real analysis, it's now a matter of political evaluation and evaluation. But the legal obligation – this law has been defined that the Fiscal Council must give its opinion on every draft law. Do we have it under this law? We don't. This is what the President of the Fiscal Council says, "Budget for 2012 will exceed one billion euros, so hundreds of millions, what is our obligation under the provisions of that law, and will reach a deficit of 175 billion." Those are his words. You can read that on your websites. So 75 billion more. The analysis of the decentralisation Act, which you adopted here, the majority adopted, you broke through everything that cannot be broken by law, means 75 billion. How are you going to bridge it, it's acrobatics now. There's no means, and I'm sure you can't get rid of this. That's what the President of the Fiscal Council tells you. What's the next obligation? He says, "The obligation to reduce public consumption." We keep talking about how public spending can be reduced. At every step of the way, it has to be done. It is necessary to tailor and cut those 75 billion, to disable certain individuals or associations in certain rights. How? It's gonna be rough, just because we don't do it systematically. Why don't we have budget rebalance? That's exactly why. We have to deny it to someone. But it will deny only because there is no adequate budgeting and analysis of the ministry, and macroeconomic indicators from the finance ministry show it best. What Mr. Pavle Petrovic, president of the Fiscal Council, suggests: "Break up the effort to collect taxes and contributions". That's what it really looks like. The inspections are outside, the forces of small and medium-sized enterprises to orderly settle their tax obligations. But again, we have 48% of businesses that are messy, even over a month. Do we have a coordinated activity of state authorities to prevent monopolies from settling their taxes and obligations neatly? Does the state, as such, settle its obligations to the economy, to the citizens and to certain associations? He's not doing it. That's a bad example. If the state doesn't settle its obligations, how do we rape an individual? Should we bring him in? You want us to lock him up because he's a mess? I think it's all one game, one volunteerism that's been around for years. There is much more to talk about, however, it's all a story in the wind without real effects, just because you don't want to see the real life and the problems facing every citizen and nation in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58294	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Veroljub Arsic, from the place: I want a word. According to this amendment? The last one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58295	Ladies and gentlemen, when I read this argument a little bit, it seems to me that it offends human intelligence and that MPs often don't know what they're doing. I'm saying that here it seems that someone has mixed up the pots, the lids, the grandmothers and frogs and got involved in one matter and is looking for some way out, any way, not to embarrass himself. I can also say that this kind of reasoning that we have received on Article 11, which we have also submitted to the SNS amendment, is that only the argument is quite offensive. I wouldn't read the whole explanation, but it's a maternity leave and leave for child care for women entrepreneurs. It is said: "When the exercise of activity is continued through an authorised manager, the person who is an entrepreneur shall be made in accordance with the law of profit compensation precisely on the basis of the right to compensation during that absence belongs to him as the person carrying out the independent activity, i.e. that fee shall be considered an income on the basis of the performance of the independent activity, resulting in the right to compensation for the remuneration of the contracted provision of Article 10. The law on financial support for the family with children." So, profit, even though it's on sick leave, a private contractor on maternity leave, a private entrepreneur, however you like, pays herself. I would like the person who wrote this explanation to give me an answer whether in a legal person when one worker goes to maternity care or to sick leave for the care of a child and this company hires another worker for a certain time, is this legal person continuing to settle or to pay off the salary of a worker who is on maternity leave or is doing so from the budget of the Republic of Serbia? It's from the budget. That's the problem. That's what you won't accept. So, before the law, they're all equal, according to the Constitution. There's no right to this kind of discrimination. So, the educator goes to maternity leave, will the kids not come to school for a year, to get paid from the budget, not from the institution? That's what this is about. You've completely confused some things, and you won't accept it, but you keep pushing your story. If that's the case, you can tell by reason. The one who wrote the law, we question his expertise. It is said: "that the accounting and payment of the contributions on the basis of the said remuneration on behalf of and for the benefit of the entrepreneur shall be carried out by a person who, in accordance with the law, performs the tasks of the authorised manager". Now, can you explain to me technically what it looks like? How's that going to work for an authorized manager? He's gonna sign a virtual warrant and make a reckoning. Whose account is he gonna pay? From the company account. So did you admit now that the entrepreneur and the physical face are not the same. That's exactly what you did. Or, he doesn't even have to carry on, he doesn't even have to do the authorized manager, he can do the entrepreneur himself, regardless of what he's passed on his management rights to another person. It doesn't matter. That doesn't stop him, but you finally proved with this article 11 that you're okay with the law, that this change and supplement, as far as maternity leave is concerned, that you're completely wrong. So, the entrepreneur is one thing and leave it aside. He immediately continues to carry out his work, to make some income, and on the basis of that income to settle tax obligations. Making money is something else. This is what the owner of the entrepreneur has in his pocket, in order to get it he has to pay taxes and contributions, and if he is on maternity leave or on sick leave for the care of the child, he has to hire a manager who is now going to work for him, pay for his contributions, pay for his income, and therefore he needs to be released, that is, to earn a profit, as is any other worker who is not an entrepreneur. It's obvious that you're involved in all of this and how you got involved, that you don't know how you're going to get out, and as I said, it's about a very unpopular law, I'd like someone to go to the Constitutional Court for sure. Don't pull your hair off later, you don't know what you're gonna do, because if this provision goes unconstitutional, then with all that interest, you're gonna have to pay back the money to the entrepreneurs. You better withdraw this law or accept the amendments while you can, or you don't care, in a sense, while the Constitutional Court makes a decision more and you won't be in power, so some of the blames of Drina and this nonsense you've been making, in the law itself, will have to be corrected by someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58296	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Obradovic, the debt of employers to the name of taxes and contributions to the state today is in Serbia 500 billion dinars. Did you have that information, as a member of the government? The Serbian Radical Party has indeed shown through the discussion today that it is ready, that the law of all a few members, to say seriously, and to offer any debate, and what your political view of it is quite different. I think there have been a lot of arguments that point to the fact that we've really taken this seriously, but I've just told you one number and I'm asking you as a representative of the government, where this law answers the fact that Serbia owes 500 billion dinars. I have no doubt that you are a man who, in a very short period of time, could prepare for a serious discussion on this matter, although this is not your portfolio, but I expect from you one political, from any other aspect, that on behalf of the Government, you say something about this. If not for anything else, then for the reason your sector suffers, because of the fact that today someone owes Serbia 500 billion dinars. Of these 500 billion dinars, Mr. Obradovic, about 400 billion are owed from companies that were privatised in criminal privatisation, and then went bankrupt. One hundred or 110 billion are owed by those who, under no circumstances know what they are doing in Serbia, tend to survive and eventually cross over in the coming year and to do business. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this because of the fact that in the time we live in, on the economic occasions that we are, the most important and important thing for this government is the consumer price index, it's the most important and important thing to do. Even that's what we need to talk about. Since the laws have changed in Serbia, i.e. the price index has changed to a small, consumer price index, the minister has not entered the Assembly to tell us why we accepted the consumer price index. Every amendment that is rejected by the SRS, Mr. Buha said earlier, and what we propose is not ideal, but no one has told us essentially why it is because no one from the Government has told us essentially why the consumer price index is accepted. Mr. Minister, the index of these consumer prices has only been accepted for one reason, because it is the EU standard. There's something called a harmonised price index methodology and it's a society where you'd like to introduce us, it's applied there and let's apply it now in Serbia. She heard the frogs bitching, so she's going to. Is that something that's real? Is it something that will bring Serbia back to reality in the statistical or context of the index? No one in the government cares about that. This interests the government as much as it will, through statistics, be better and easier to create an imaginary reality. Mr. Krasic had just said nicely, the price index for a little bit could be a more acceptable index than the index we're holding, which has actually imposed on all of us through the government's definition. Why? That's why Mr. Obradovic, because Mr. Krasic said so, too, because in that index there are more prices that are controlled by the state. Why does it matter? This is important because, to the greatest extent, inflation in the previous period has generated and defined exactly the prices of state-controlled products. But the state enjoys living in fiction. Overcoming reality for the state is easier and it would be very nice, I have some advice for you on behalf of the SRS, don't accept those compromises, sit in the Assembly Hall when it comes to sitting down Mr. Cvetkovic. Today, the finance ministry is in Serbia dealing with income, income, expenditure and expenditure. It would be very nice if for no other reason than to pass on the atmosphere from the government. They're there in celebration, saying that in three months they did what you didn't get in three years. The results are epochal, the standard of citizens has been raised and not to list further and further what these results are and it would be nice to transfer that atmosphere to this parliament. To teach us and to show us where to recognize this reality as it serves through another journal or other information shows. I ask anyone today in the Assembly to say, where in this law, the answers to the harsh reality that I identified through the numbers at the beginning of the discussion. What we're going to deal with, don't mind the term with the bitangs that don't pay taxes and contributions, and they're sitting with the government's ministers and presidents at the forums. How? Here, you tell me on behalf of the government. I'm not burdening you with any failure of this law, to you as a resolute minister, or ladies to you because they technically dictated the political will and determination of those who make political decisions in the name of the government. I ask you - where are the answers to these problems here? Even what can be recognised here as a serious and real problem and the law may need to be resolved, the government refused to accept, and through the amendments was suggested by Mrs Dimitrijevic, something that solves life, something both the media and the newspaper and everyone else were talking about. The government showed at one point, when it realized that the media could show an opportunity to score a point, that the government would solve it. How did they solve that? We've read the statements of the ministers who are in charge of it. How are you going to solve this amendment and you did not accept it? Why? What's the problem? When we finally hear some government official say here, people, we're ready, we show political courage to face that and that problem. After this law within 60 days, those who owe Serbia the most in the name of taxes and contributions, while at the same time not the largest taxpayers, will settle a third of their commitments to the Republic of Serbia's budget directly, indirectly to the citizens. Of all that, you, in the field of education, would really benefit. For all this, one of your responsibilities, which you are obliged to provide on behalf of the State, could be carried out and carried out. You can't do this. Who is privileged in the country today, and why? Those are the answers we need to be given here. That's the story we need to talk about. Whether the index is like this or not, it can be significant in the state and society that is being arranged or raised to some level from which Serbia, unfortunately, after ten years of current government far away, and what is devastating is still still continuing. Everything's still going on. We can't in any of your acts, government act, recognize the will and politics of the determination to face the problems. We are talking about a law that, again, according to the EU dictatorship should enter the process, while our lives pass by us. It's just that it's pouring into the budget and we're kind of patching up, so we're gonna hold out until the election. It's just that this is inconclusive for us. We do not want to undermine the importance and importance of any act and of any work and effort that is embedded in this, written, implemented, whatever you want. We can't accept the fact that we're discussing things that are mostly irrelevant to the harsh reality and that in the media performances, the government of whales don't know what it's all about, and that we're basically squirming in the problem. Today we offered whatever point you wanted to discuss. What's the answer? Nothing. My colleagues said it would be rational and practical to withdraw this law. I don't know if you can do it, whether you can do it or not, it doesn't matter, but even if you can't. Here, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the SRS or give your prime minister a greeting and tell him to finally get his head out of the sand, to knock on the door to reality in Serbia. If he is unable to deal with politics and solve problems in Serbia to go into political retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58298	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58299	Madam President, Mr. Minister, when someone is going to go to political retirement, the opposition, fortunately, decides the citizens of this country in the elections. You know that the elections will be regular in April next year, prepare well and give political programs and ideas, so you will see how you will go through these political programs and ideas. Just to make certain remarks when it comes to tax debts. First, it is not true that the private sector owes the most in Serbia for taxes and contributions, and that is one ominous innuendo that is being instructed by the ruling majority, that someone may not pay taxes because of the closeness with the ruling majority. It's, first of all, incorrect. The fruit is ignorance, evil intentions, and the most earthly demagogy, let the citizens identify what it is. The fact is that the largest taxpayers are on outstanding contributions to PIO and health insurance and other contributions from the state sector, especially those undertakings that are not privatised, so they are in a very difficult situation, or they are privatised, and are state-owned because of failed privatisations. The state right now can get all these people out of work and out of work, and charge taxes under duress, and in Kruševec "14 October" will be left without workers tomorrow if that is the goal of a political party. The goal of the state is not to destroy these large private entities, but to preserve them from surviving and eventually enter into the process of restructuring, privatisation and to be able to participate in the competition. So it's not exactly a statement that the biggest taxpayers and the IRS are not doing their job to private people in this country. The IRS is doing their job well. Ask your privates how much the penalty is when you do not pay your pension and health contributions in time and ask how many fines are paid for it and how the penalties are prescribed. I think the state has good regulation. In a poor society, it is not forced by something so easy to implement that some obligations to the state and to the workers are fulfilled. On the other hand, it is not the goal of the state to destroy neither the economy nor the economy sector. The goal is to help these people. I can look at it in a different way. There is a much greater burden on the fact that there are people in Serbia who do not pay for the services performed or the goods delivered. When I sell the goods to someone right now, I have to pay the VAT and that VAT is paid when I sell the service, and tomorrow, that someone just doesn't pay the claim. This is where we need to find legislation to help the economy. When it comes to what we were talking about, I underline once again, the private sector is not the largest taxpayer for unpaid taxes and earnings, nor who uses some privileged position in society and the state, because the legislation is very clear and precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58300	Thank you. Milorad Buha has a word, and so can you, but first, you both have 11 minutes left, so Mr. Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58301	I think it would be useful for the gentleman to start listening to what I was saying and what I was saying. You've probably been absent, and for whatever reason I don't know, it may be justified, but it doesn't amnesty to give up the lie. I didn't say privates are the biggest debtors of this country. I'm a private. I don't owe the state anything. I said they're employers, and when I say "employee," I mean both state and private, and a company that after ten years, they can't privatize. You promised it back in 2000, you'd settle it by 2003. Look, Mr. Milivojevic, I'm a man you don't need absolutely, I don't give or deny the right, you don't need to talk about the private position. I know exactly what was waiting for me first if I don't settle my obligations. Then I ask you, why don't we discuss laws that will improve the position of privates you charge today, and the bills that are being issued or that are being put out 7% that never charge. Why don't we talk about it today in Serbia? Because it is a responsible and serious job and because it requires that you sit down and take seriously everything, on the one hand, and on the other hand, in a fundamental sense, requires a consensus. You don't care about that. You don't care about that, and you have a commitment not to be interested in it, you've been showing it for years. You said you listed people who owed. These people who owe you are the victim of your political concept, you created the state policy that they were supposed to do, it wasn't me. We have paid for any political responsibility, Mr Milivojevic, and you have come to power by promising them towers and cities. If you hadn't promised them what you promised, do you think they'd vote? The economic concept we advocated in 1991, you didn't establish today. Who's been defending you for ten years? Who forbade you to conduct an honest, quality privatisation. The SRS? Should we go through the names of who conducted the privatisation, who are your coalition partners or colleagues? Don't put that on the SRS. Our story today was completely constructive here. I agree with you that privates are in trouble, but let's solve their problem. You won't. You won't or you won't. But privates who don't have any today don't get touched by problems. They are the ones who are rudely wealthy for your president, but at the same time at economic forums, they sit with your Prime Ministers, parties and ministers. I don't believe that we have a different and more human relationship with these people, but you have a problem with being politically framed and not acting. That's the attitude and interest of your policy. They're funding you, your policy, not your party. You answer. When you came to power, the economy you're talking about was in charge of 700 billion. Do you know how much she's in charge today? It's in charge of two thousand billion. Two thousand billion with all the friendship of the world and your economic vise and wit. You absolutely after 10 years of DOS authorities have no more arguments to resent and say to anyone else. If you had implemented the programs you promised in the election campaigns, we wouldn't be in the mud we are in today. To remind you of actions and jobs, I don't have to go any further, but your one story was until the polls closed, and after the polls were closed, the same story continues, the same story as the old one. So you have politically lost every credibility to share lessons, because in 10 years you have proved absolutely incapable of changing anything in this country and turning to the better. If everything was kept at the same level when it comes to economic indicators, maybe we could talk. You've ruined everything, you've destroyed everything, you've debted the state, you've denied generations of rights to live differently than we do today, and that's why you have to bear political responsibility. The obligation of the SRS and Vojislav Seselj is to say this, to tell the public, the public who has to come out of the shell of sleep, hibernation and fiction that you've been putting us in for 10 years, and reality is something completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58302	Mr. Milorad Buha, then Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic. First Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58303	For all of this, we need a little analysis. When we talk about debt, we have to take it very seriously, because every debt is an evil friend and we need to talk about it in every segment, but we don't have an analysis, we don't have data on it. Here, I've been an MP for 5-6 years, I've never received any serious analysis from any state body, institution, ministry or government, to say - this part of the debt will be recovered in one way or another. The biggest debtors are in the area of economy. Over two thousand billion, or 20 billion euros, is the debt of the economy. One half to the banks and all that other debt to each other and debt to the state. There are data that we can find on your websites, on the website of the Ministry of Finance, Government, etc. Who in this sector owes the most to the economy? "Delta" owes the most. Seventy or 80 billion now something's been paid, etc. Furthermore, Victoria Group, Invey, it's the monopolies, just the ones that have the highest benefits of this government. This government has done everything to enable them to buy, to privatise businesses, to give them the most favourable jobs, to meet up with them on building land, to look through their fingers, etc. They owe the most. The next one, according to obligations that don't carry out, is the state, just because it hasn't charged. We can't talk about the government's success unless it's able to charge what's rightfully hers. Why isn't it working? It doesn't work because it plays a social role, a social mother and herself says it's a pro-European and social government. That's how he treats the gray zone. The gray zone almost nobody touches. No one touches monopolies. That's why we have what we have. Two or three billion euros is the state's commitment to various entities. What's the biggest problem? The biggest problem is monopolies. You gave them everything. They privatized the hotel, took and didn't return what belonged to the state. They don't respect legal regulations, they don't respect you who came out to meet them to make those fortunes. They fire the workers and do what they want. That's the point of the problem that we're dealing with. What's the SRS' position? Make the right analysis and start cutting. There's no other way. The cuts are waiting for us anyway. Here, you see Greece. In Italy it is announced, Spain etc. We're already at that stage, except you don't want to look the truth in the eye. The truth in the eyes is very black, you must understand that. All the indicators, whatever you look at the indicator he's black, very black. They'll hit you on the head. We'd better watch during some time period to do analysis, to take measures and try to resuscitate it in time, because without real system recovery, we can get to the verse. The verse doesn't need you, we don't need us, we don't need the opposition, we don't need the position. All methods are allowed in the verse. If we get in that condition, you know the government is responsible for everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58304	MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58305	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true, I have no argument when I say this, except for the truth. That's the strongest argument. The truth is, I'm just gonna say that something we heard in this room would be perfect, perfect and good for putting voters to sleep, if those voters were suffering from amnesia or if they were suffering from chicken blindness, but I remember just as well as the citizens of this country. I am, fortunately, a private entrepreneur from 1991, and I was until 2007, until I became a national envoy. I remember, too, moving the scale of my success, but also how the rock of tax collection was moving at the time. I especially know what it looked like in 1998, when the rule of this country was at least partly taken over by one political party, which until then was in opposition, and then it became power. I know very well when we took responsibility for the management of this country on January 21st, 2001, how much we found a budget deficit, how much we found in the pension fund, so if someone thinks it's free of charge, to pay off those pensions, to pay off all those contributions that aren't paid, to settle that definition of inflation, that it's like having 100 dinars in your pocket, so the state takes 30 dinars across the night, and you're left with 70 dinars, and you don't need to rebel, and nobody from the DS said that, that's what the leaders of another political party, who I sincerely hope will come here in the hall to discuss a little bit. So, I don't need to remind you that there was no pension to pay for electricity at the time. There was no electricity at the time, there was nothing to pay for. That's when the power on the spoon was obtained by groups. So I am aware of the situation in which Serbia is located. I'm aware of the economic situation in which the country is located, no one has to point out to me, but I am also aware of the effort and the fact to avoid the economic downturn of the state, that much richer countries have experienced an economic breakdown in times of crisis. I am aware of the fact that at a time when they had prosperity and all over the world there was prosperity, and we had a general economic collapse because of the incompetent policy that was being conducted at the time. I understand the crisis when there's a crisis everywhere, so there's a crisis with us, but I don't understand it's good everywhere, and if there's just a crisis with us, I can't understand it. It's something in politics, then, and it's in the politics of that local regional or some other level of that country. It's impossible for there to be a crisis everywhere without us having a crisis, as it's impossible for everywhere to be good and only for us to have a crisis. I believe that this government will adequately respond to the crisis, that our coalition partners will successfully lead the economic ship along with us, that we will not experience this expected economic breakdown, which the opposition has been seeing since they lost parliamentary elections. An economic breakdown in this country is announced every time someone answers their words. You first said that the euro course would go to 110, and then you said that inflation would be very quickly a three-digit one, so you announced the collapse of domestic banks, so when all this didn't happen, then you find arguments that don't match the facts. I say again, so the biggest debtor here in Serbia is the state sector, not the private sector. I accept every initiative to talk together about how to help the economy. I accept any legal proposal that can help improve the economic situation. I am ready to sit with you both privately and politically and however you like and discuss all economic issues and all economic problems if you offer a solution. But I didn't hear the solutions offered. I've heard only criticism from the position of demagogy, from the position of courting voters, from the position of finding the situation, but not a single proposal on how this situation can change. That's why I can't accept such suggestions. I can only accept, not to have someone define my problems, but to find a solution to those problems that, first of all, before he does, before he throws a stone at me and my party friends and colleagues, he tells me what he did when he had the chance to bring solutions and solve problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58306	National MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58307	Very short. You've listed everything and everything, dear colleague, you've said at least two-thirds of the things that neither I nor the SRS have said, at least we've predicted the destruction of domestic banks, not because you're not capable of destroying them, but because they're gone. In Serbia, 90% of the foreign bank. And those that are our own, in our possession, operate under very problematic conditions and circumstances in Serbia. Read the statistics published by your authority and your regime, and you will see their position. To finish this story in the '90s. It's more degutative to call on them, to talk about them. I say again, some of them were the worst, we paid for them a political fee. What is heard most often or very often in Serbia today is one saying or jargon "Milosevic is a small child for these". The only liquid of your ten-year-old government is transparent boxes. Since you can't steal any more boxes, you started stealing in parliament, which through votes, through mandates. That's why you're going to pay the political fee, hopefully in the next election. As we ruled, we were political about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58308	Since no one else has used their right, and according to the Rules of Procedure, there is no time, I give the word to Professor Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58309	Since, given the circumstances, I am one of the ministers who is authorized to be a representative of the government on this agenda point, to say just a few words, not abuse the function of the minister or what it says in these papers, and very detailed reasons why the Government has not accepted the proposed amendments. I must say that the story of the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance was far greater than the objective of amending this law, because the fundamental law refers to applying a new methodological principle and creating conditions for harmonisation of dinar amounts, instead of rising prices to a small extent, which is not published since 1 January 2011, with an annual index of growth, a consumer price index. I consulted my colleagues at the Ministry of Finance, and they told me that this precision of certain categories of debtors does not affect the level of payment obligations for those categories. That's the most important message you can say about that. Otherwise, to all fellow Members of the People who participated in this debate, I thank you. I'll give a message to the Prime Minister, except for the political tension, and the ministry colleagues will take a look at your other objections, and there'll be an opportunity to talk about it. Anyway, I think the conversation was broader than it was the content of these amendments and the addition of the law. Anyway, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-13-0.u58310	The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. No one's answering for a word. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the sitting agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint July 14th 2011, starting at 10.00pm, as the day for voting on the agenda of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Mr. Minister, I thank you and your government associates, especially the MPs. So tomorrow at 10.00 we vote. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, 112 of us are present. To determine the exact number of present, please insert the cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 126 MPs have established us, that is, to have working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Milan Dimitrijevic and Riza Halimi. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON BIBLE INFORMATION TO THE ACTIVITY The National Assembly has carried out a review of the Bill's proposal in principle and detail, and we move on to decision-making. I ask the MPs to declare the bill in principle. Of 126 MPs, 125 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to have to re-establish the quorum. We keep working, because there are 126 of us. Please be more efficient so we can finish faster. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 101 is for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, seven are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 118 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, five are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 109 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 10 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 102 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, five are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, six are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, seven are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 10 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 19th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Svetlana Stojanovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new article be added after article 20. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 108 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. On behalf of Chapter VIII above the 31st Amendment, MP Filip Stojanovic submitted. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 31st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 120 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 32nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 102 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 33rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, eight are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, none for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic to Article 33. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 100 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 33. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 34th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 107 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Žutic has tabled an amendment proposing that new members of 35a and 35b be added after article 35a. and the headlines above them. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 98 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 45th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, eight for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 46th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, seven for. The amendment was not accepted. The 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, he voted 115. The amendment has been accepted. The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 96 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 92 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 49th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 113 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. 'I ask the MPs of the SRS not to interfere with the work of the session. The 55th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 56th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, one voted for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 57th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic, Munir Poturak and Bajram Šehovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 107 voted. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on library and information activity in general. I ask the People's MPs to make a statement about the law in general. Of the 126 MPs, 120 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on library and information work, in general. We move on to a statement on the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE OLD AND FRESH BIBLE CITY Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the bill on the old and rare library structure, in principle. I'd like to make a statement about the bill in principle. Of the 126 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Nikola Žutic submitted an amendment to the bill. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 98 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, two voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 111 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 106 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs of the people eight to go. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 104 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 91 for. The amendment has been accepted. The National MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted the title above Article 20. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 112 for. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 21st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted the title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, for 102. The amendment has been accepted. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, for 99. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic tabled an amendment proposing that Article 38a be added. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 40th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 49th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, for 106. The amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 56th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, for 97. The amendment has been accepted. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, for 105. The amendment has been accepted. The 56th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, for 92. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 94. The amendment has been accepted. The 61st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic, Munir Poturak and Bajram Šehovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 101 for. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on the old and rare library building in general. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 123 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the old and rare library structure. We move to the vote: - Proposal for an OBLIGATION OBLIGATION OF PUBLICATIONS Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle, and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on mandatory copies of publications, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. Of 126 MPs, 123 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 126 MPs, one voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Gorica Mojovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Of the 126 MPs, 110 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Of the 126 MPs, 105 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Of the 126 MPs, 93 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Miroslav Markicevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Of the 126 MPs, 90 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Of the 126 MPs, 100 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, and Miroslav Markicevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Of the 126 MPs, 98 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Of the 126 MPs, 98 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of 126 MPs, for no one. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic, Munir Poturak and Bajram Šehovic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Of the 126 MPs, 113 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on mandatory copies of publications, in general. Of the 126 MPs, 123 voted for the proposal as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has passed the draft law on a mandatory copy of the publications. We declare the 4th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE OBTIC DISCUITION LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft code on optical discs to the vote, in principle. Of the 126 MPs, 124 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 112 voted for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 105 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 114 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 99 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 97 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 92 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 103 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 102 is in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 98 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, 97 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 12th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, two voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, three voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, he voted 101. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Article 24 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Committee on Science and Technological Development. Proposer representative Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education and Science, accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 114 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The National MP Zlata Djeric submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 104 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Markicevic submitted the amendment to Article 24. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 24. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft code on optical discs in general. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 120 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on optical discs. We declare the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE BASES OF THE EDUCATION AND VESSITAINS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 118 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 112 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 92 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education, tabled an amendment to Article 4. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 99 voted. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 100 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 100 for. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Education Committee have submitted an amendment to Article 5. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. Of 126 MPs, 107 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fermond. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, four voted. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Education Committee have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 108 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fermond. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 113 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fermond have tabled an amendment suggesting that a new article 11aPlease be added after Article 11. Of the 126 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Education adopted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 90 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Education Committee have submitted an amendment to Article 13. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 112 voted for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, two voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Education Committee have submitted an amendment to Article 15. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, he voted 101 for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marija Bulgarčić, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 96 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 106 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Pavel Marchok. The government and the Education Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 106 for. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Radica Jocic submitted to the 21st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Micunovic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted an amendment with a correction. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 109 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was filed by MP Dragoljub Micunovic. The government and the Education Committee have accepted an amendment with a correction. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 111 voted for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education tabled an amendment to Article 23. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 101 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marija Bulgarčić, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 25 by MP Pavel Marchok. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Education accepted the amendment with the correction. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 109 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Education tabled an amendment to Article 31. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, 109 for. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the basis of the system of education and education in general. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the founding of a system of education and education. We declare the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Obligations of Social Security, since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, I put the draft law to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 4th amendment was submitted in the same text by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, a group of 21 MPs from the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia and MP Meso Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted in the same text by MP Milorad Buha and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, four voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. We move to a vote on proposals from the committees responsible for the report of independent state bodies. We are moving to the 7th item of the agenda – REFERRED TO THE REGULAR ASSESSMENT REFERRED TO IN 2010. A year, with a proposal to lock up the Justice and Administration Committee. I put to the vote on the draft conclusions on the Annual Regular Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2010, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Of the 126 MPs, 117 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft conclusions on the Annual Regular Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2010, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. We are moving to a statement on the 8th item of the agenda - THE REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE FREE APPLICATION OF INFORMATION FROM THE PUBLIC SPECIFICATION AND THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA FOR 2010. One year, with the proposal of THE CULTURE AND INFORMATION COMMITTEE CONCLUSIONS AND THE PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF COURT AND GOVERNMENT I am putting to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the examination of the Report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Matter and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data for 2010, which was submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 122 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the 2010 report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Meaning and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, which was submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. I put to the vote the draft Conclusions Report on the implementation of the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2010, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 117 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft Conclusions Report on the implementation of the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2010, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. We move to the declaration on the 9th item of the agenda – THE AGE REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE COUNTRY REVISION INSTITUTIONS FOR 2010. This year, with the proposal to lock up the Finance Committee, I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the Annual report on the work of the State Auditing Institution for 2010, which was submitted by the Finance Committee. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft conclusion on the 2010 Annual report on the work of the State Auditing Institution, which was submitted by the Finance Committee. We move to the declaration on the 10th item of the agenda – THE AGE REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE AGENCY TO FIGHT CORRUPTION FOR 2010. A year, with a proposal to lock up the Justice and Administration Committee. I put to the vote the draft conclusions on the Annual Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2010, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 121 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft conclusions on the Annual Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2010, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. We move to a statement on the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION OF THE PRESIDENT AND MEMBER STATES OF THE COURT OF WORTH. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the election of the president and members of the Securities Commission. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Securities Committee. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted a proposal for a decision to elect a president and a member of the Securities Commission. We move to a statement on the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, No 02-2288/11 as of 27 June 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 145 MPs, 143 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We move to a statement on the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group, No 02-2366/11 as of 30 June 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 145 MPs, 141 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Dear People's MPs, the beginning of the session of the 7th extraordinary session will be in five minutes, at exactly 12:00 p.m. The session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, scheduled for Thursday, 14 July 2011, starting at 11.00 p.m., will be held immediately after the vote, i.e. Now. Please coordinate these two obligations and be for the beginning of the seventh extraordinary session here. The session of the Legislative Committee will be held after the end of the vote, i.e. after the adoption of the agenda and the beginning of the next session. I'm being informed that the session of the Legislative Committee is brief, so please proceed immediately to O.R. I., where the session will be held. (The session is closed at 11.55 p.m. )
