ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60295	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, in Article 136. The bill is regulated as the suit and other documents are being submitted to the proxies. It shall be provided for in Article 136(2). – delivery to the pronoun can be carried out and handed over to an adult member of the family household, if the pronoun performs the work in the apartment. I understand the full desire of the promoter to prevent any kind of abuse, so that the litigation process, as quickly as possible, is concluded by some judicial verdict. I can't understand the promoter that he doesn't really want to be judged and that they're actually responding to some truth. I think those who proposed these proposals were just dealing with the problems of delivering certain documents. No one has tried to get into the essence of what can happen as a negative consequence of such a delivery. It's true that a lot of lawyers have offices in their apartment, but I think "household members provide the reception of documents", can't stand in the law. I can understand the desire to do it with the parties in the process, the litigators, but not when it comes to lawyers, because life is often a little different. What if this law enforcement attorney is on vacation? You're saying that he is obliged to ensure valid communication with the court, including on matters of receipt of letters, which he is required to receive or provide a person who, in the event of his absence, will receive the same. Now, explain to me, if he's on vacation or on another continent, Africa isn't far, the crisis in Tunisia and Egypt has calmed down, how do you think the power of attorney responds in such a case? It's not a lawyer's office, so some of his colleagues are going to take over the paperwork, write a file, respond to the lawsuit, or something else, and refer it to the court. Will he do it for his account his son, his daughter, to move blank papers with stamps and signatures and to match them for him? Come on, an annual vacation a man can choose, but he can't choose when he's going to get sick. What if there's a lawyer in the hospital, if he's not in physical or mental condition to secure communication? You have predicted that the deadlines are ongoing and that in the event of a failure, the court may give the verdict and, if it continues, that the verdict is later also judicial, because, again, there was no one to respond to both the verdict and the plea. Courts often resort to one way of handing over, which is that they find it much easier to hand over certain files to the legal authority than to hand over to the parties in the process. It is believed that when he handed over to the legal authority that the party he represented was also served, so often the party does not know and is not addressed to its address a particular document. Thus, it cannot react in the sense that it finds another representative, that the other takes certain actions to prevent the adverse consequences that can be caused by such a way of delivering documents in a litigation procedure. I think this law, when it's applied and you have a lot of requests for review, you'll realize how wrong you are to try to break some things over your knees. So make sure that in the voting day, the SNS won't vote for a bill like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60296	Three minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. In accordance with Art. In 90th and 27th, with gratitude to Parliamentarian Jovan Palalic, which pointed to a mistake, a failure, an accidental one indeed, I repeat the information about the time available to the MPs for the search that is currently under way. Therefore, the PUPS parliamentary group, the Manjina parliamentary group, the NS parliamentary group and the LDP parliamentary group have at their disposal all the time and the authorised representative and the parliamentary group, as well as the SPS-JS parliamentary group. The DSS parliamentary group -- the mandated representative is available for nine minutes and 30 seconds and the total time of the parliamentary group; the Progressive Group of Serbia has six minutes for the representative and the total time of the parliamentary group; the URS parliamentary group has all the time available and parliamentary groups and presidents of the parliamentary group; the SRS parliamentary group -- has used its time, and the parliamentary group has 23 minutes and 25 seconds; the ZES parliamentary group -- has 10 minutes and 10 seconds at its disposal, and the parliamentary group 71 minutes. This is the time available, with another apology for the slip and the wrong information with the record of the time spent and the gratitude of MP Ivan Palalic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 140 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 140th amendment. MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60297	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Minister of Honor, in Article 140, paragraph 3. New Serbia has submitted an amendment that the member is changing and that it is - the supplier will leave a notice that the party can take over in writing in court within 30 days of the date on which the delivery was attempted. In that case, a copy of the letter shall be pointed out on the court’s notice board. During the 30-day period, delivery is deemed to have been carried out neatly. The reasons for this amendment – Proposal for a law providing for the beating of letters to the door of an apartment or the premises of a legal person does not mean that it will not be destroyed in writing by third parties, while the party does not have the possibility to inform in court. For this reason, we believe that the solution offered is more celery. So one of the main changes in this Code on the litigation process is the delivery of mail, something that is a daily action in the litigation process. We believe that such a solution would be a lot of abuses that could happen, because it may never be received or removed from the door by someone and then lead to error, both parties and in some situations and the court. The proposed solution to this amendment is similar, but rather precise and certain that this way the abuses that can occur would be avoided or reduced to the least possible extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60298	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 141st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. MP Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we asked in Article 141 to delete Section 2 - if a person who has to be delivered in writing must not be found there personally, delivery should be made provided that the address is correct. The supplier will leave a notice that it can be taken in writing in court within 30 days of the day of the attempted delivery. In that case, a copy of the letter also stands out on the court’s notice board. This article 141 also relates to Article 140, so delivery method. We had when it came to delivering to the legal authority that he could even receive his son, his daughter, his wife, which is a private life certainly not compatible with the profession, especially in this matter, but in art. The 140th and 141st can literally rule the matter fairly without the party in the proceedings being able to declare and present its evidence. Just look at article 140. – if delivery is carried out at the workplace, he can receive a colleague of his who works at the same workplace. Usually colleagues working at the same workplace have a certain conflict because everyone wants to get close to their direct manager in order to achieve some benefits and are willing to do anything and everything, believe me. And the other day, I was holding certain anonymous letters to state authorities. When I read that, it was one of the most disgusting things I could read in my life. And you want such people to receive written notice from the courts on behalf of their colleagues. Members of the household, I would understand that you wrote that he's a blood relative and that they live together in the household, but still understand little and some family relationships and how much abuse that can provide, just so someone can get revenge for something that has nothing to do with this court procedure. You can even put it on the door of the apartment, hang it on the court's notice board, and you think you're done with the job. I said in principle: what about our citizens who are on temporary work abroad, who will represent them? Will they have to, when they're looking for a revision, show passports and document that they weren't in the country at the time and they couldn't react? You talk all the time about the interests of diaspora. How much is this really in their interest? I noted that, for example, in Braničev County, of 200,000 voters, 60,000 voters are not in the country at all and do not come for several months. The state authority that keeps track of the address is the police. The police don't have a record of where they're on temporary duty. The address given to the court is correct, but the party is not in the country and will not be in place for several months, a judicial verdict will await that it may move out of the same facility and will not be able to react. It seems to me that a single saying is right – that it is better for the court to free a hundred criminals than for an innocent man to shut down. I don't know if that's the case, but it's better to miss 10, 20 and 100 deadlines than to take away someone's property just because he wasn't in the country and couldn't answer. Be assured that the senior courts will have their hands full on the review and that most of these litigation proceedings, which will begin in accordance with this law, will have to be discussed by the same courts and then, from the speed up of the litigation process, there is nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60300	Two minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60301	The President-in-Office, Mrs Malovic, on Friday, we discussed the details, and during the principle debate, we said it was extremely important to include solutions in the law on litigation that would prevent delays and the length of proceedings to the extent that exceeds the objective interests of the parties, especially the creditors. One of the main interests of the adoption of a law on litigation is that in all possible ways the interests of both parties are realised in the process, but primarily by those who seek and who are damaged, which is the prosecutor and the person who has certain claims. As a parliamentary group, through various amendments, we tried to fix everything in terms of deadlines. A good part of the amendment has been adopted by the Ministry, but there are a number of amendments, including this amendment, which we felt certainly contributes to removing the presumption of delay. Delivery is one of the most influential things besides those related to the possibility of delaying the debate itself. The delivery has an impact on the length of the proceedings. If statistics were to be looked at, I assume that only the ministry has, to what extent avoiding delivery or using incorrect delivery through the appeal procedure and through legal treatment procedures, affecting the downsizing of first-degree convictions. We have come here from the fact, as well as from the reasoning of the law, that the law significantly corrects the delivery solutions, but there are a number of things that we have tried through the amendments to fix, that we could make delivery even better. Here are the texts in the bill and the reasoning contradictory. In Article 141, you are starting from the assumption that there may be an incorrect address, and in the very explanation you are talking about the presumption of the accuracy of the address and the consequences in the event that a person who does not receive a specific submission at that address, what happens and what further actions of the supplier, and you say: "The law stipulates that all letters which must be delivered in person are delivered to the address in the residence records, i.e. the address in the register of legal persons. If the person who is served in writing is not found at the address, a written notice shall be delivered and may be raised in writing within 30 days in court." That's a good solution. In the very text of the law you have the assumption of an incorrect address and it can create additional problems. Every natural person, and especially the legal person, when keeping records in the business register of their seat, should take care of that fact, especially after the adoption of this law. Why would it be a disagreement and why would the procedure suffer a disagreement between the actual address and what is written by the official authorities? The records of the Agency for Business Registers shall state the headquarters of the company, which shall be delivered, no one could receive by law, be placed on the court's notice board and shall be given 30 days and accepted in writing. Where you've been, what you've been, it's more of a court of law to be interested. Also at the residence of a natural person. All must be aware of the fact that the residence must be correct and that it is only considered to be true by the competent authority, i.e. the police or the Agency for Economic Registers. By doing so, we will eliminate all possible abuses in delivery. This is how this provision, which you left in Article 141, gives that possibility, especially to the defendant – my address is there, and I moved away. Of course, companies, in the situation they are in, avoid all possible deliveries, from tax authorities and beyond, will only wait to change their actual seats without registering it at the Agency for Economic Registers. So, accept this amendment, it really is in the function of removing possible abuses, because I believe that we are all interested in getting a good litigation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60302	Two minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic to Article 143. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60303	This article should be applied by writing a complaint and appointing the defendant, but his address is not known or the address when the lawsuit was filed, and in the course of the proceedings it is not known, has either been changed or there is some other reason. Since the prosecutor is an active party in the case, the entire member of 143 refers to the party in the proceedings. Where a party has been ordered by the court to supplement the submission by stating the exact address of the other party to which it is to be supplied in writing, it shall not be able to obtain the address itself and provide evidence thereof by the competent authority to obtain the necessary information. It's not clear at all what evidence the D.A. might provide? What would be evidence - a video of him moving with his wife, getting to that address, seeing that there's no man there, talking to neighbors? What would be decisive if the court realized that under official duty the address of the defendant should be provided, because this, first of all, refers to the defendant? The prosecutor has no interest in the end of the dispute or in the long run, and the prosecutor is an active party, he would have liked the case closed yesterday. So, if the defendant is avoiding it, he's resorting to this way of avoiding it to appear in court, I think this solution that the prosecutor needs to provide evidence that he tried and couldn't find the address, that it's really pointless. If everything is accepted in the case on the principle that the judge is a silent observer slapping the prosecutor and the defendant, then we don't need such a law on litigation. You don't need any proof, it's enough to just say that he tried, that he can't determine where that new address is now and that the competent state authorities, by order of the court, are getting the information where that person is located so that the procedure can be further conducted, of course, because the submission is based on this handover to the applicant on those sides. When you say this to the party, I don't know how it's going to be interpreted by judges. What will prove to the judges that the prosecutor tried and failed to provide, I don't know what the evidence might be. If he asked the post office, if he asked the police, why would the police give it, there's no obligation because he can suspect it, maybe only a litigation was made up of something to provide the right address or something else if it were. If these words covered by the amendment are thrown out, nothing is lost by the idea that the court may obtain information on the opposite party's address.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60304	It was used three minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 148 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60305	The Honored Chairman, Mrs Malovic, this amendment refers to reviewing and copying the file. It is not clear why, when it has already gone on to shorten the deadlines in every way possible and to remove the possibility of further abuse or delay the proceedings, why has our amendment not been accepted and why judges are being spared? Each procedure is clearly transparent, open, everyone has the ability to see the files and if the interest of all parties is in the proceedings and the court itself to take the proceedings as soon as possible, so it is also the court's interest that, at the request of one of the parties as soon as possible, we have decided immediately here, but no later than 24 hours, to allow the examination of the files to be carried out. As defined in Article 149, there is no deadline. Everyone knows who took part in any procedure as long as it can theoretically last, to give consent to go to the office. We simply feel that it is necessary to allow the party to submit an application to allow it to leave immediately and to look at the files. Perhaps it was simply not possible for him to attend some process action, to immediately look at that he could react by submission or by any other action, look at the records, look at it eventually if there was a finding or what, to look at and react. We believe that since a number of amendments relating to court obligations have already been adopted, we think that nothing will complicate the judge's problem, it is very simple and very short to allow such a decision to be made and to allow the party to see the files. Any delay and any possibility that the party has no insight within a short period of time may extend the procedure needlessly and burden it with unnecessary things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60306	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60307	It is good that there is an amendment to this article, but this amendment does not solve the problem of this member. What's this about? In the trials, we have a situation that the litigators can, during the course of the evidence, present their argument, their opinion on the case, but they are weakly aware that what remains in the record is recorded, and the record is interpreted by the judge, the chairman. We need to bring in an appropriate member by which we would prescribe that the litigation process should necessarily lead the stenogram, to record everything. Probably 60% of the lawsuits were lost because the chairman or president of the court council interpreted what one party said during the dispute. If a transcript was conducted then two days after the hearing and the prosecutor and the defendant had a transcript, so it would be known who said what, what entered the file, and it should finally be promoted to the principle that what the prosecutor has in his file, what the court has in his court file, must have in his file. There can't be a difference between the court having more files and the DA and the defendant not having any paperwork. For seven years now, I've been running an action to get three sentences in our judiciary, both in litigation and in guilt, necessarily run by a stenogram, regardless of what a writer hates, and now that it takes three sentences to get in and what it's hard for judges to convince, because when they convince what the party said in the process, it's just interpretation and seeing judges, and the party didn't even mention those words. It's rare when someone allows the record to be dictated, but it's also a question of what's going on in that record. If the principle were to be promoted, the court case file is what exists in the court, so must the prosecutor and the defendant, and to insert a stenogram from every hearing, what the oral parties said, because the wording of the same word was written in writing. It should be justice reform, not Pera, Mika, Laza, lustration and whether Sam Nazaro approved that this man could be elected judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60308	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 149 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60309	As far as this amendment is concerned, it was intended to allow litigation parties to conduct litigation proceedings as effectively as possible, not to waste time, and in certain cases by acting as judges to grant approval and permission to review the case, and in certain cases it would be unnecessary to waste time for the judge to go to the office now or in case the judge is not in court, in which case the party is indeed chiced, unnecessarily comes to court, finds no judge, is not there or is en route. For these cases, it is sufficient for the office to allow the parties to photograph themselves, to gain insight into the files in order for the court to submit the submission and the answer to what the judge asked for. The judge's burden is unnecessary and the administrative burden is unnecessary. This in one piece is not insignificant, but there is a delay in the process. Let's cut the time, let's let the powers and the parties take a look at the files in those cases, and when the debate is over, then it should be approved by the President of the Court. For this, according to my deep conviction and long-term practice and the problems the parties face, which is that the party comes to court, doesn't find a judge, doesn't even find the head of the office, what he should have seen in the office and in the case is enough to look at, to see what the court has ordered him and thus to propose certain evidence to continue the proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60310	Anyone else want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic to Article 149. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60311	Article 152 regulates the advance payment of the costs of carrying out certain evidence. There's a second sentence when the evidence is carried out on official duty. There's a variant here that needs to bear the costs of carrying out that evidence. We're asking for that whole sentence to be erased because it doesn't make any sense. If there is any cost of carrying out evidence under official duty, the court shall always decide when the case is finally closed, by decision on costs. You know, depending on the results of the lawsuit, the party that lost the case pays all the costs of the court dispute. So you could put this matter in the other one. These are the final costs of a court dispute. This is how you put an advance on some of the costs of carrying out some of the evidence on official duty, and you can reasonably question the relevance of this evidence. What is the relevance of this evidence? Many times the court has sinned by carrying out some evidence that they consider relevant, and in the end it turns out to be completely insignificant, that there is no small difference, that there are no points of contact with the case of a court dispute. So this is not the place to be in a provision where the advance for the costs of court proceedings is regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60312	Anyone else want a word? On Article 153 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60313	Article 153 also speaks of the costs of the proceedings in the case and the first position provides that the party who loses the case as a whole is obliged to reimburse the counterparty. Of course, it's nothing controversial, it's common, it's the only way to do it. We have proposed to add here that this party that loses the litigation is obliged to involve the opposing parties, i.e. the opposite parties, compensation for the costs of the proceedings. You're saying you can't accept it because the party's procedure, which, of course, is not disputed and you say that the person who joins one of the parties has an interest in making this party succeed in the process. Not only that, but the interface and for its own reasons has an interest in making this party succeed in the process. What happens in practice? Let's just say, if it's a lawsuit, a litigation between a legal person's representative and a natural person, even though there's no interference that has any interest in obtaining a lawsuit, a legal person's representative is totally unscheduled and unhelped by a finger, so there's probably a personal interest in acting that way. The involved often has to hire a lawyer, as well as parties in the process. It's fair, it's logical, and it's fair, in the end, that the person involved gets the costs of the procedure, if he's on the side of whoever got that litigation. It's not logically different, what you predicted. It wasn't someone who came up with the idea of getting involved in the process. It is not a formal party in the process, but it is a party together with that party whose party has interfered in this process. So we believe in the SRS that if you really want this to be fair, you can't possibly spare a litigator who lost his case without harming a litigator who got a lawsuit. You know there's also some connection between who's party to the proceedings and who's involved. No one would interfere because it occurred to him. He has a legal interest. He may have an property interest. He has, in any case, an interest in getting involved in that lawsuit, and I say often he has to hire a lawyer, maybe even an expert, and I don't know what else in the process, and if he's on the side of whoever got that litigation, it's perfectly logical and normal to make up for those costs, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60314	One minute and 15 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 154 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60315	You see, when it comes to the provision of Article 154 we felt that this article should be changed, as much as the overall action of all participants in the process will be covered. What remains here is also the case for lawyers when it comes to the conclusion of an agreement or contract, as provided for in the Law Chamber statute. We suggest. The court is obliged to judge the parties and involve the costs of the procedure at the level of the amount specified in the written contract. Madam Minister, pay attention here in this bill there is no provision at all, and in the statute of the Bar Association adopted and valid, it is allowed to conclude a contract with a lawyer, in relation to the costs of the bar fees between the party, the interference and the lawyer. If the costs are not determined by the contract, the court is obliged to determine the costs of the proceedings according to the legal tariff. Therefore, it is not left out here that the party has the right to conclude with the lawyer the contract, and if there is no such contract in that case, the competent judge, acting on it, will measure the costs according to the legal rate. The other costs of the proceedings shall be subject to the court's decision under specific rules. Therefore, we think the proposed amendment is a better solution, determines and assigns costs, both those related to the contract and those costs where there is no contract concluded between the party and the lawyer. This is in international legal practice, mostly by the rule, this is the way the agreement is concluded, and I don't see the reasons, it would be good if you unite this, it would turn out to be a complete norm, it wouldn't be a problem for someone to come across a problem, and it would be a waste of time that is right and who isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60316	Twenty-five seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? ( No. ) On Article 161 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament Gordana Pop – Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 168 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Chapter 14 and the members of the 180th to 185th amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? ( Yes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60317	These provisions contained in chapter 14 with articles 180 to 185 we think we should delete them. Why? Because the proposed solution was introduced in the 2004 Law on the Parley Procedure with unsuspecting adverse consequences because this solution undermines the integrity of the legal order, because the legal understanding taken by the Supreme Court under official duty by the Supreme Cassation Court is practically a new source of law which our legal order does not know within the meaning of the provisions of Article 142 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which knows no legal understanding as a source of justice. Please, from our case-law in the application of the law and the Constitution must be taken into account, the Supreme Court cannot issue legal considerations or principles and that they are also replacing the provisions of the law, because this in the Constitutional Court will not be able to pass. The judicial authority is insufferable. Therefore, the SRS is to respect the Constitution and respect the rights of parties and, you will see, here is this provision in conflict with the Constitution. Once again, no one's legal understanding or principled understanding can change the law. The law is passed by the congregation and no one else can change the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60318	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 188, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60319	Mrs. Malovic, the amendment is well explained and I don't know why you didn't accept it. The question arises whether or not you want to protect the parties in the process, not you personally to protect the parties, but to pass a regulation of a law on litigation procedure that will respect the parties? The largest number of prosecutors who appear for various reasons are parties that do not have a specific legal education and probably create certain gaps. Article 192 speaks about the content of the complaint. Item 2 says, "The prosecutor who has a place of residence or a place of residence," where the seat is, means it is a legal person, and may be legal and natural persons in the proceedings, or prosecutors, "if he has a place of residence or a seat abroad, it is necessary to appoint an assistant to receive a letter in the lawsuit. If he does not mark the authority to receive the letter, the court will reject the suit." We have suggested - they will dismiss if the prosecution's case is filed on behalf of the prosecutor, so a person who has a professional education, and unless he has a power of attorney or attorney, then leave the prosecutor a later period of time to determine the person who will receive those letters. On the occasion of the argument, we called for article 101. The bill, wherever it says – if the submission means both lawsuits and charges and other submissions, is not legally clear or is not done in the best way to return to the party to supplement it, of course, provided that there are no attorneys or lawyers. Now, since this was in force in article 101 regarding the elimination of legal shortcomings, we believe that here, if the person has the power of attorney, then he can reject it, if there are no powers, then he should leave so-called. the court term of the prosecutor who can remove the shortcomings, or propose a person who will be in charge of receiving the written information.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60320	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic to Article 193. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 193 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Komic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to article 193. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have accepted the amendment with the correction, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 219 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60321	As for Article 219(2), we suggest that the words "without their guilt" be deleted. We have noted in our argument that the proposed solution introduces unnecessary confusion into the law, because it is not clear that it could at all prove the guilt of the applicant that he was not involved in the case, whether it is because he was not given the invitation or whether he was not informed of the lawsuit that was initiated and which was in progress or which was eventually completed. That is why we believe that the proposed amendment is effective in any case, because it removes confusion and removes numerous irregularities that later occur in the course of the case and the end of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60322	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 222 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60323	As regards the provision of Article 222(1), we suggest that this provision in this position be changed in such a way as to: "when a party dies or loses its judicial capacity and there is no assistant in that case". It should stand so that it changes in that case, and point 2 of point 2 should be deleted. Why? The proposed solution was introduced into the applicable law on litigation as early as 2004 and in court practice it was explicitly poor, because often legal heirs either died in the proceedings or not, who is the successor, to initiate the desert procedure, especially if the deceased owed something, so the heirs avoid continuing the proceedings, and the party in whose interest it is to continue, cannot determine who will be designated as the party in the proceedings, especially if there are more. As a result, this proposed solution, in our opinion, also has the justification to be taken seriously, given the fact that in practice many possibilities for manipulation are opened and that heirs are avoiding a lawsuit or that they continue when a party dies in the process. In that case, time is wasted and parties go from judge to judge, from lawyer to lawyer and cannot exercise their right and therefore this is a better solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60324	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 222. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60325	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment as it is the alignment of this law with the Law on Economic Society, which has recently been adopted here, and should take effect at the time when this law is scheduled to enter into force, so that it is in all order that this provision is now included in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60326	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 229. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60327	We just wanted to make the amendment more and more clear, because the proposal says - the proof includes all the facts that are important for the decision-making process, paragraph 2. - the court decides which evidence will be provided to determine the essential facts. This is very not precise, round to the corners, so in practice it can also take the form that represents damage to one of the sides that must be equal. We wanted these two attitudes to be replaced, to be one position that would read, "prove all the facts that are important for the decision-making". So whoever proposes something to prove it must make the evidence likely to be relevant and that means of proof and to say what fact he wants to establish through that evidence. Since the parties are quite free, not only at their own request, but should be active, and our goal is to end the case as soon as possible, then things can be expected to be proposed by the parties, believing that some evidence will be good for their position in the case. If the court is allowed to assess its relevance, there will be a disaster. Here's an example. Generally known is the fact that the SRS is completely unauthorized, hiding at the Bank of Intez, it is this bank that is preparing to flee Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, and we have launched a lawsuit to determine that it has been unauthorizedly representing the SRS. We've submitted evidence. All evidence relevant. Judge Marina Tomic didn't want to hear about it. The appeal was written, a decision was made on appeal by a second-degree body round the corner and found other reasons why the refusal of the suit was acceptable, but pleaded that those reasons that Marina Tomic found were insane. He says – you did not offer any evidence of the fact that it was a ban, and we filed a statement, judicially certified, Verice Radete, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Dragan Todorovic, Slavko Jerkovic and all those present at the event, you see, when the court now assesses the relevance of some evidence of what can happen. Later, when we come to the re-trial provision, Petar Jojic has well placed me to be the party's representative for the amendment, we will have close encounters in October because a repeat of the procedure has been approved. Why? Because it's a first-degree and second-degree verdict in conflict with reality, with an annual age, with a calendar, with a universe, with life. Why? The man boasted, we published a book of all his statements, where he boasted like him, he didn't ask anyone, he doesn't care, he's the messiah. It's yours on the Styrofoam. Who was behind that operation? Miki Rakic, Wikiliks informs him. What does WikiLeaks say? Six months he's been preparing that. I can comment on this because the dispute has been properly concluded, I am not entering the case, but you can see when the judge was appointed, and she has progressed, Marina Tomic, now in the second-degree Court of Commerce, has progressed, proved herself on the case, as previously proved on the court register, since she ran the court register. If such judges determine what is relevant and which could be the evidence force of any evidence, that is, what fact could be established on the basis of this evidence and how much this evidence has to do with the subject matter, then you are free to make these changes and additions. Return the stenogram to be, so that you know exactly who's talking in the courtroom. If you can't do that, let the sides bring in a tape recorder so they can record who's talking. Did you see when the video showed up to talk to Nata Mesarovic, it came out to the surface of who he was stretching to be a judge?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60328	It's been used for three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 230 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Justice and Administration Committee have submitted an amendment to Article 230. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Minister of Justice Snezana Malović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60329	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I also accept this amendment on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, given that it is a legal-technical correction and a much better formulation in the amendment than in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60330	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 245 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60331	We come up with a very difficult provision in the draft law on litigation. It is Article 245(2). We believe that after saying, "the decision to decide" is stuck and the words "only with the consent of the parties" are added, and at the end of the position after saying "this law" is replaced by a point and the words "as well as a recorded witness statement" are added. What's the problem here? By contrast, in the law on litigation, we violate three established principles of litigation. This is contrary to the principle of the public, because he made a statement in Surdulica, the judge reads it in Novi Sad, has not seen the man who made the statement, cannot ask him a question. The party's lawyer and party have no chance of facing such a witness. So this is where the evidence is disabled directly. So, directness, mentality and the public. That's what we've finally deleted with this proposal, and that's what the legislator, hopefully, will be interested in, but the proposer, the one who was doing this proposal, he was just trying to do damage to this one, whether it was intentional or intentional, but this is scandalous. You see, this was taken from The Hague tribunal, by the rules. That's exactly what it says there, and we know how the witnesses in The Hague who falsely testified in Vojislav Seselj's case went. Really, it's inappropriate. That is why, Mrs Malovic, we cannot allow it, there will be very harmful consequences under the litigation procedure if we do not oblige the court, as we have so far, to call in practice the witness and the expert. Second, just like in The Hague, again with a link or audio and a video method to listen to the face. You don't need this. This one's not in Germany either, it's not in France, it's not in Italy either. In Italy, some things can be collected in the field in parallel, but they cannot serve as evidence, that judgment is based on them. Here I am afraid that there will be very harmful consequences, and the problem is, Mrs Malovic, I have knowledge, people warn that, following objections to your proposal and the draft, there has been another end to this proposal and that the professional public could fully put final remarks on all those proposals that are coming to parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60332	A minute and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 245 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. MP Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me repeat, I understand the motion of the Proponent to speed up the litigation process, but as far as it's really going in that direction in whether it's really going to be like that, I honestly doubt it. It is foreseen that the court may decide to carry out evidence by reading a written statement of witnesses stating the findings of relevant and controversial facts, from which they are known and how they are related to the parties in the proceedings. Then he goes in that famous position 2. – way of writing, statements, etc. The following point 3 shows itself - the case referred to in Article 2 of the Court of Justice may, by way of a decision, decide, by official duty or on a proposal by the parties to be heard by the witness through a conference link, using a tonic or optical recording device. The court shall adopt a decision in both paragraphs 2 and 3 and no specific appeal shall be allowed against that solution. If one of the parties opposes and asks to question the witness, the court may but does not have to accept or accept it, so we had one hearing to read the statement and another hearing hearing. Did that speed up the process? It's not. Or he refuses. If through that refusal, it is one of the stronger bids in the complaint of one of the parties, and the senior second-degree court annuls the verdict and returns to the first-degree court for judgment. Did we speed up the process? We didn't. I understand that there are often exceptions, which is that the person is healthless to testify, physically cannot be present in court and then I understand that there is a written statement, or even a video link and an audio link, etc. But you're making the rules out of exceptions, so it's best if we shut down the judges, put up cameras, pressure gauges, gauges how sweaty the palms are, how many heartbeats there are per minute, and that's why the computer gives the verdict. Let the case finally be conducted in a more effective way than it has ever been before, but in a way where the very way of determining the facts of immaterial evidence is going to match that judgment, and not as it is now envisaged, that simply whoever is faster, who is more skilled, will get a lawsuit, regardless of the verdict itself does not correspond to the facts that need to be decided by the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60334	One minute was used by a member of the parliamentary group. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60335	In principle, I agree with the discussions of distinguished colleagues, as there is a danger that a member whose provisions are generally good in practice become a rule. This should be a member who will in practice be an exception. Let's say he's a witness abroad, if he's seriously ill, immobilized, etc., but in all other cases, the court should listen to the witness for the next practical reasons. A witness who draws up a written statement has plenty of time to agree fully with either the prosecutor or the accused party on every word of his statement, to stand aside from one of the parties involved in the dispute, which does not correspond to the right intention of the legislator, that the court determines the full material truth. I was myself several times in practice faced with witness statements -- ten witnesses gave a written statement that came from word to word. It was some debt and some fake receipt. However, when we heard the witnesses, they initially held on well, they said the debt was in foreign exchanges, etc., but fell to where the receipt was made. One said it was put together at the attorney's office, the other by the local community secretary, the third in court, the fourth in one student who has a computer at home, etc. etc. Apparently, all the witnesses were lying. Therefore, I think there is time for the Justice and Administration Committee to respond to this and until the day of the vote, this provision that threatens to become a danger is thus arranged to make it an exception. If it becomes a rule, there will be daily abuses in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60336	Two minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 253 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60337	When it comes to Article 253(2), the words "and the three of these laws" should be deleted, and that is what we propose. The proposed solution is a logical follow-up to Article 245 of Article 3, 4 and 5. It is proposed to delete heading 3 because the proposed solution introduces unnecessary confusion, leading to a delay in the procedure. The promoter has a goal, and we too are to speed up the process, but not at any cost, hasty, that this alleged acceleration of the procedure is going to harm the litigation parties. In particular, when it comes to some unconscious parties who tend to delay the proceedings. A number of possibilities are being opened here. Imagine, the court tells the party to inform a witness whose hearing is set on the place, day and time of the hearing. Do you know what it's like? Another problem is being created here between the litigation party and witnesses, until the court, to agree to testify eventually and falsely. That's why this isn't practical. On the other hand, what happens in practice? This is not recorded anywhere in our court practice, nor in Germany, nor in Switzerland, nor in French, nor in Italian. What's gonna happen? Inform that witness's party, and he doesn't come. The judge's scheduled a hearing in a month. He expects that witness to come. That witness says - please, I don't know any parties, I know the court. I'm not interested in Shay and Pai. I want the court, as a state authority, to send me a call and come to his call. At the invitation of this, I don't want to come, because I don't care. Is there a sanction? There isn't. Look, what's the problem? He's practically stalling again. Now comes the court and says, "Since you haven't found Sima, look for John." The citizen is assigned to seek John, to call him to court. He says it again. Listen to me. I don't care. I'm not going. The court has no sanction for such a witness. By the time they get to the courthouse, by the time they get to the bottom of the house, and by the time they get to the judge, do you know what's being arranged? You have witnesses who are prone to bribery, witnesses who are prone to lying, even if this one instructs them, I think that party that's right, it loses its slowness. This is why it's necessary to change. This is an improvement in the text. Whether you want it or not, Mrs. Malovic, but you will find yourself in a situation that will have to be changed quickly. You have good intentions to carry out a revision of legislation, but what fruits will be harvested, that is now the thing to see in application.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60338	A minute and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 254 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60339	Mrs. Comic, the amendment only wanted to build the 4th position in this Article 254 so that what was written in attitude 2 would make sense. Of course, the government doesn't accept it and it doesn't surprise me, but now let me explain to people what it means in practice. You see, in smaller places where people know each other, etc., when litigation parties come into court and they take their witnesses and then they go inside, and the judge hasn't even opened up the argument yet, then they have a good fight in front of the judge and in front of the clerk, and then he goes, you're this, you're that. A smart judge sits down and keeps a good record of all this--this one said this, this one said that. When they end up with a list of families, witnesses, etc., the smart judge says – please, order, we should go to trial. The judge found out everything before the trial started. The second point is that when a witness is heard, the judge must warn the witness that he is obliged to testify truthfully. But what happens if the witness finishes the story, and the judge doesn't warn him that he has to tell the truth during his testimony? Can such a statement be taken as evidence? That's the central question. What is the purpose of the second position, unless there's any sanction for disrespecting that attitude? Then, the Justice Department secretary says – there is a Criminal Code of False Testimony. Aman, people, you don't know, it takes consciousness and intent to have a crime. In a lawsuit, every witness's testimony can be relativated. In the case, as a rule, we have 70% to 80% of false witnesses, who defil, in advance. It's just that the court allows the opposing party with trap questions to strip and see that the witness is false. But if you have Marina Tomic, then please finish the job. You have nothing to worry about. The question is, here, I see that there are some lawyers here, so I guess they know that -- how many times they've been in a situation where the witness starts to chat, and when it comes to dictate by the president of the council, he finally says, "Oh, I forgot to warn you that you only have to tell the truth, so let's put it in the record. As a rule, the record comes together after some shop. So the witness was questioned, and then the record was dictated by the judge. When it comes to dictation, the judge says – I forgot to ask you at first, that is, to warn you that you must speak the truth and bear responsibility for false testimony. That's why it's important to see what's going on in the courtroom. The purpose of this fourth attitude, which is being upgraded, is to discipline the judge, not to influence the testimony. What kind of judge is he if he doesn't know the order? So it is not the purpose of the fourth position which is proposed to be formally prejudged or formally rejected. No, it's the purpose of disciplining the judge to conduct the procedure as prescribed by the law. How many times have you had this situation in practice? Tell a nice witness everything and then the judge begins to enter the record, says – oh, I forgot at first to warn you that you are obliged to tell the truth. So, he's cutting off the procedure, he's cutting off the verdict. The only thing that's not tough is that side that's gonna make a whole judge. I'm sorry, that doesn't happen in courts with us. That doesn't happen in courts at all. We have the judges of the holy cow, they're doing everything according to the law, and we know exactly which judges write the verdicts. We know how some lawyers get in. Go to the justice department, and see how Bosko Ristić and his interns or office are doing. He doesn't even have to show up for trial. They're done, and the law on litigation is our cover. Please, the other's attitude is so written that it represents something which is a mandatory form that must be respected by the judge. What's the penalty unless it's respected? No sanctions. That is why We have suggested attitude four, because of this threat that it should not be. You have heard nothing of the witness. The judge always makes sure that in the beginning he warns the witness at the obligation to tell the truth and to bear true witness to what he knows, what he saw, what he heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60340	It was used three minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60341	Madam Minister, of course, I also realized my role as an authorised representative in this way that you really need through everything that is useful and that, I see, and you are thus experiencing, since you have accepted many amendments to the opposition, that everything that is useful should be entered into the text of the law. In practice, I have not met cases of the judge acting so as not to warn the witness, but most often they go with one phrase, because of haste, they say – the witness was warned about the consequences of giving false testimony. The judge just didn't have a briefer conversation with the witness. He did not tell him – do you know that you are bound to tell the truth before the court, do you know that giving false testimony is a crime, and do you know that you can answer for false testimony? But the judge, most often, says - warned of duty to testify properly. However, here, counterpart Petar Jojic is Pančevac, across from the court in Pančev, the first coffee shop, people who work in the judiciary call that cafe "a coffee shop with two false witnesses". It is where lawyers agree before hearings with witnesses, false witnesses, briefing and preparing for a long time for the hearing, etc. If the judge does not tell them – do you know that you are obliged to tell the truth before the court and that giving false testimony is a criminal offence, the formulation of them, since they are not lawyers most often, has been warned of the duty of testimony under the law, does not mean anything. I don't think this provision even bothers anything proposed by Zoran Krasic, because if there is no obligation of the court, then really that evidence should not be used as evidence in the proceedings. Secondly, if even after such a warning the judge will commit a crime, then let it go to all this, but I think that after one clear warning of the judge and the record finding many who have been prepared in one of the many cafes, I just mentioned Pancheva, and full of them Serbia, I think they would still appear with more respect to the court and well consider whether knowingly after the judge's warning to commit a crime. This morning I spoke to a colleague, there are professional witnesses in one court, professional people who have been testifying to anything for years. A thousand and one times they've been caught in a lie and the verdict isn't based on their testimony, so I don't know if there's any criminal record going on, probably not, the judge on official duty isn't responding, and that's how it goes. I think that practice should be interrupted and that the introduction of this provision would help make the text of the law better.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60342	Three minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 260 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60343	In 260, the article speaks, as well as a member in front of him and a few after, of the warlocks. In the third position, it is provided that, if no party proposes a skill, or within the time limit left, it does not provide costs for a skill, or, as you say, does not submit to a skill, the court will decide on those facts by applying the rules on the burden of proof. We in the SRS think that this is quite ungrably formulated and that in fact we don't understand what the promoter wanted to say to this member, that is, by attitude. We predicted that this part, which says that someone does not submit to the art, is deleted. You're saying you can't accept it because this provision, as you say, is clear, and it isn't, and it implies a situation where the party itself is a subject of skill. You're also talking about examples of disputes in damages or family disputes when conducting DNA skills. Now, it's common for the opposite party to suggest that DNA is artificial in the family dispute, while it's common that when it comes to work injury, that the injured, as a party in the process, suggest his own skill. Or the opposite, a possible father may also seek DNA skill, to prove that he is the father of a child, or to exclude himself from being able to be. Also, an employer can look for skill when it comes to work injury. So now what do we got? If someone's looking for a skill, I guess it's logical for him to access that skill. What would you ask him if he didn't want access to the art? On the other hand, if you do not submit, as you have written the art, and the art is suggested by the opposite side, then we have a case already regulated by law, which says: "if neither party proposes or within the time left provides the costs" etc. So in exactly the same case as at the beginning of this article and there's no need in such an incomprehensible and vague way to regulate this. We, therefore, propose that these words of Article 260 be attached to the legal – technical regulation of the law. You see, we in the Serbian Radical Party have been through our amendments, so to speak, throughout the law. We have concept remarks and we have made it clear to you to the amendments, first of all, as in the Code of Criminal Procedure, we draw attention to the attempt by you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in the Assembly majority to introduce an Anglo-Saxon legal system into our legal system, to exercise the tribunal of our judiciary. On specific amendments, we tried to distract you. We also, in a good intention to draw attention to this law, when adopted, to speed up the legal process, because it is a general interest, also to the legal – technical order and amendments, to draw attention to where it would be good to accept our amendments, to make the law more applicable and to make it more effective in its application. We told you that what you are, and this applies to this member and to many members, we have argued that this law, as well as to the CAP, will contribute more effectively to the judiciary, you have already dared to declare that no more dispute will last more than two years. Mrs. Malovic, it's impossible under this law of yours and you know it well. We do not know why you will not accept the amendments, if our intention is to help, not you, but the citizens of Serbia when they come into the situation that this law applies to them and help the representatives of the judiciary to have as simple as possible, as clear as possible and as precise a law as possible tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60344	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 261 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 261 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 264 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 269 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 269 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vuković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 270 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60345	When it comes to the provision of Article 270(4), we suggest that it be changed, because there has been a major problem with the skills that will be able to act solely on the order of the judge who is conducting the proceedings. In that case, the parties will be denied asking questions, and the judge will determine what needs to change skills, which is unacceptable. We believe that this should be changed and attitude 4 should read: "If the expert delivers the finding and the opinion of the court, which is unclear, incomplete or contradicts itself, the court will order the expert to clarify it and set a 30-day deadline. "Now we come to a very important institution, that a deadline should be set, that the expert is obliged within 30 days to give an explanation to the court, at the request of the court's representative will call on the experts, to make a statement at the hearing. So, as you can see, the norm is proposed indefinitely, giving the court the opportunity to order an expert to change his findings and opinions, not to clarify certain circumstances and facts but to change it. I've often had cases where an expert is given an assignment to do his research and opinion, but according to the order, which is dangerous, so the judge draws his attention and directs him in which direction he should do his research and opinion. That needs to be ruled out, that's not good. Mr. Chikiriz spoke earlier about that member who referred to the witnesses. It would be good for some of the lawyers who are here, who have such knowledge, to meet however the MPs sitting in the legislative body, not to go over these facts lightly, because in practice they will come across an impenetrable wall and we will have old practice and they will still not go in the direction of shortening proceedings, but it will be to the harm of the litigation parties and to delay proceedings, which is neither us nor us in the state, that the disputes lead to 30-40 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60346	Fifty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 271 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60347	Let's start over. In Article 271 paragraph 2, after the words "and yes", we believe that a comma should be added and said "at the request of the parties". The proposed solution makes it impossible for the parties to bring before the court an expert from Article 2, who will ask questions to the expert, so that the participation of that person, within the meaning of Article 2, in the sense of Article 2, with the proposed solution, has become unambiguous, because the court may, under the proposed solution, not allow that person to participate in the further evidence procedure, and Article 2 would remain unequivocal. We propose by amendment that the consultant have the right to take part in the debate on the findings and the opinion of the experts. This is a very good solution, and you have already foreseen this provision in some of the provisions that have been discussed before and also in the CAP. This is one of these provisions that are very important, especially from ignorant parties who cannot stand up to, above all, an expert who tends to cheer without giving an objective and realistic opinion. This is how you prevent him from allowing the other party's litigator to participate and discuss and that expert consultant, who can help the party clarify certain facts and determine the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60348	The word is made by Minister Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60349	I think the wording of this member in the bill of law is now in favour of the ignorant parties, as you say. Because, as your amendment states, it can be allowed for an expert and court-ordered expert to give evidence to clarify his skill only at the request of the parties, not in favour of ignorant parties, but on the basis of a proposal for this provision, the court may, in specific cases, call on these persons to clarify its skill. If they accepted your amendment, then the court would be bound by the request of the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60350	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 272 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60351	Again, let's go to Article 272 paragraph 2. We suggest that this provision in the bill be deleted. The proposed solution allows the court, under the threat of fines of between 10,000 and 150 dinars, to force the expert to draw up a finding and opinion, as the judge responds, because few of which will resist the pressure of the judge and put themselves in a position to pay the above mentioned fines and allow the judge to initiate proceedings to remove the skills from the court's register. It is clear that the proposed solution paves the way for numerous abuses, with inconceivable consequences. In the legal order and in the Constitution, the guaranteed right of parties referred to in Article 32, the proposed amendment to possible abuses would be largely prevented. The fact that you do not want to think or pay any attention to the amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, we understand that, which motivates it to do, but in practice this law will experience a major problem, it will in practice not be easy to live. These are innovations that will not be able to help the parties right now, nor the court, that the efficiency of the procedure and the celery and economics are implemented in order to be approximately desired. There are a number of solutions here that are effective, but that is, by my impression, a problem that is proposed by the opposition party. It's up to you tomorrow, when you're not in power, the other party will come, and that party will probably and she won't think whether she'll make the additions and changes, change the outdated, new additions, and whose solutions will she adopt?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60352	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60353	Well, I'd just like to remind the public that there's been a bill passed on to judicial experts who don't give any more roles to court experts the way they've played for decades in our justice system. For decades in our judiciary, the court experts were literally doing what they wanted to do, and the court's register was signed up without clear criteria, and from the court's register, I'm not aware that one single expert was erased from any findings and opinions then. The parties have been used before by this institute that we are now introducing, it's an expert assistant institute. However, the court did not respect it at all, even in some cases that burdened our public and in which the parties without legal provisions delivered the views of the experts who had engaged in private affairs, the court did not respect it, but in some ways it was noticed that it was opening the eyes of the court in such a way that the expert did indeed, that the artist who was hired by the court was indeed giving findings and opinions in a harsh contrast to the rules of the profession. I do not agree that Article 2(2) should be deleted. I've almost talked to many judges who, even under the existing Law on Prosecution, started to punish the experts, because in our practice, there were examples that an artificial object had held on to itself for 10 to 12 years, and in economic disputes, and in civil litigation, etc., and two, three years of subjection to be with the experts, it was already thought that one short period of time. The judges I spoke with, who, even under the current Law on Prosecution, began fined by the experts, say it had given full effect. They say, from now on, when we hire these experts to give the findings within the time limit that we determine, they approach the hearing, etc., and definitely until the experts begin to respond with money and until the court starts punishing them and until they are in a certain danger that eventually due to disrespect and procedural discipline and the rules of the profession will be deleted from the register of judicial skills, they would continue to work in the old way. I think that this provision is truly proposed by the Ministry is extraordinary and, of course, it doesn't need to be worried about the witches again. Anyone who works securely and responsibly, who respects the court, the court deadlines, who works are found by the rules of the profession and by the best knowledge and skill, there is no need to fear this provision, but all those who do the opposite and how they should be afraid of these provisions. So I think that the amendment of dear colleague Peter Jojic, who I really agree with in many ways and in many suggestions, with this, with all due respect for understanding of your position, I don't think I can agree with.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60354	Three minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Time is available for two minutes for 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60355	I think the amendment is good because it puts into the first plan another fact that is much more significant than whether the finding came within the prescribed time limit or not. The expert is, as a rule, an expert whose expert findings and opinions should help both parties and the court to establish a fact that the court could not determine without that expert. If this work is to be dealt with by a criminal, then every sense of an artist is lost, then we practically have a questionable expert, then such an expert can be dissuade in any subsequent dispute by calling itself that he was punished in a previous one, which raises questions not only about his profession but also about ethics and morality, etc. That the problem with inefficientness or with the delay of an artist should be solved – it should be solved, but this is the wrong way, because by punishing him you are actually disabling him. We still have this outdated provision by which the court determines the expert on the party's proposal. The party proposes an object of art and may possibly suggest a name. But I can see you didn't exactly accept everything from The Hague, but you tend to the Hague. There is an expert witness in The Hague, so if his findings are read and he hears his testimony he can say more in search – he is not recognised as an expert witness, but as a fact witness, and he was not even present to witness the facts. I think that some of the provisions of the existing Law on the litigation of the artisans need to endure some changes, but in any case, it's not this change. I know there's been a punishment so far, and I think it was a big mistake. Why was it a big mistake? Basically, that man can never be an artist in any case again, that's what this is about. I agree completely, it takes big eyes to open before someone gets into the skills records and from the point of view of the profession and from the point of view of experience and from the point of view of his relationship with the work he would have to do, it would have to be done in a professional, professional way. Now, what all the witches have wrinkled in our justice system can be written about.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60356	This time, which is available to the parliamentary group, has been used. The word has a People's MP, Srdjan Mikovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60357	Dear Vice-Presidents, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, I do not think I should accept the proposed amendment, because when we read only the position of Article 4 of 270, which reads: "If the expert delivers a finding and an opinion that is unclear, incomplete and contradictory to itself, the court will order the expert to complete or correct the finding and opinion and will set a deadline for the removal of the shortcomings, i.e. calling on the expert to plead at the hearing." Article 272(2) states: "in the case referred to in Article 1(1), as well as if the expert does not act on the order of the court referred to in Article 270(4)."means that, despite the court's warning, "the court will have the authority to fine Article 267(1) and (2) of this law and will inform the Ministry of Justice of the affairs of the judiciary in order to initiate the process of eradicating the skills from the court's register. "So there is no excuse in any case to approve of an expert to act against the court's order despite the warning. The artist knows very well the deadlines he gets to do the results. If any of the new circumstances are an expert at the moment of the art he didn't know, there is the possibility of addressing the court and seeking an extension of the deadline or anything. If the expert behaves and does not respect the court, there is no reason not to retain the proposed solution referred to in Article 272 paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60358	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 277 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60359	Again. As you can see in Article 277 paragraph 2 after saying, "decision" is added to the word "only with the consent of the parties". This is necessary, because without the consent of the parties and the court can make a mistake and in certain things without the consent of the parties will suggest that certain actions be carried out and that the skill be done either in addition or in other ways be clarified. First of all, the proposed solution is precisely contrary to the principle of public, directness and verbality. The promoter doesn't admit it, but this is in practice absolutely present tomorrow. This can't be fixed later when the law comes into force. You can't have a party judge alone, you can only do something that the parties may not be able to obtain as evidence, so that the judge himself brings a solution that will require that and that action to be carried out. Then why are we serving litigation parties? Why can't litigation parties be given the opportunity to argue before court? The trial within a reasonable period has also been called into question. The exercise of the Convention's right to Article 6 has also been questioned. I believe you disagree with me. You don't have to agree, you have a different opinion. Those who worked on this proposal had to take more care of it and especially about the rights of the parties and to give you better text preparation and thus have one law that will be effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60360	Two minutes. MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60361	I could not agree that in Article 277 paragraph 2 after the words "decision" add a comma and say "only with the consent of the parties". I'm just going to read to say, "The court can decide only with the consent of the parties to a solution under official duty or on a party's proposal." So, only when I read it in order to vote that position can the court decide only with the agreement of the parties by official duty and on the party's proposal to be heard, etc. I don't think a member like that can stand up to us in the Law of Prosecution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60362	One minute has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 280, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask once more of the proposed representative to consider this amendment. It's not some concept where there's a conflict, it's a practical thing. Article 280 provides for who to represent a legal person before a court. And that's when, say, small or medium-sized legal persons are not the problem. There is a problem with legal persons who have organisational units all over the Republic. It is now foreseen that some general act, which is the most common statute, will provide for the person representing that legal person before the court. The Statute is the most common director of that legal person, if it is a private company, then the owner or director, etc. But let's take Telecom as an example. We agree that he has his own organisational units on the whole territory of the Republic, which, in accordance with the general act, regulate some of his work on the ground. Often, they either do some damage or get a job injury, so a person gets fired or someone sues for damage damages that the organisational unit has done in its work. Now, in order for that organisational unit to be unrepresented before the court, the general act is the director of the company. You agree that it's impossible because it can't read, probably all the services for which one such company is sued, not in matters of labour disputes, nor in matters of damages suffered by another person. Perhaps the statute could predict that the leaders of the organisational units for disputes concerning their organisational units are in charge of the proceedings before the court. But if they run it, well, that's not a problem, but if they run it badly, the director can't argue because it's foreseen by the statute, by the general act of that legal person. We asked this amendment to the person, it is most often the director to transfer his powers which can at any time withdraw a person who is of course in a working relationship who naturally meets the conditions to be elected both for the judge and the prosecutor and to pass the exam before the bar. So I don't see any reason why any such amendment would be rejected, so all parties will come into the process when it comes to such legal persons that, for example, even a legal representative, a lawyer from Black Treva should sit in the car, schedule a meeting with the director of "Telecoma of Serbia" in order to sign him just one ordinary power of attorney, and of course that cost will charge him. But if it is done through the transfer of powers to legal employees, then it certainly cannot do any harm in the sense that abuse can occur, so the one who has given authority at any time can also withdraw it and thus protect the interest of the legal person to whom he manages.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60364	One minute and 30 seconds used from the time of representatives of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 283 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. That the line wants a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 294 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60365	Article 294 regulates the question when the court, following a preliminary examination of the case, provides a solution to the mandatory rejection of the action. So you in this article predict some seven reasons, seven situations where this can happen, so when a court can make a decision to dismiss the action from the situation where the decision does not fall within the jurisdiction of the court, until the seventh case that the case is incomprehensible or incomplete. So this is exactly what I reacted to with my amendment asking to add "the lawsuit was filed by a lawyer". Madam Minister, this intervention has been done with the aim of efficiency of the procedure. We felt that it was simply inappropriate for the court to refer to a lawsuit filed by a lawyer in the same case if it was incomplete or incomprehensible. Watch out for a lawyer to file an incomplete lawsuit? Do you know what year of law school teaches what the content of a lawsuit is? The honor of really good and safe lawyers, but Mrs. Minister, it is often said to us that the case is most like certain litigations, or that they look like a milk cow, and while one party holds her by the horns, another by the tail, the lawyer milks them. They're these unconscious lawyers who can even file an incomplete lawsuit. Then why let them and why return the lawsuit to edit it, because it simply needs to be dropped automatically.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60366	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60367	It would be good to read Article 294 or at least the first sentence – the court, according to a previous examination of the case, brings a solution which, if it finds out, further to paragraph 7 that the action is incomprehensible or incomplete, whether the lawyer or anyone else is, or to write the complaint, the action is dismissed and there is no return. There's no going back to work, no writing, no correcting. I understand the intention of the applicant of the amendment, but the bill itself meets the wishes of the applicant for the amendment, if the lawyer writes and submits an incomprehensible and incomplete complaint, the suit is dismissed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60368	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. National MP Mirko Munjic has been reported, and your parliamentary time for your group has been used. There's no reason for a replica, to explain, here's two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60369	Mr. Mikovic, I would allow the situation if you were right, but before you should read the argument given by the Government for not accepting this amendment. The government says -- Article 294(1), point (7), that is, this point at which I have submitted the amendment, regulates the situation where the party, and after taking the court's measures to remedy the shortcomings in the case, has not acted in accordance with the court's order, and in such a case, the action is dismissed. I acted to write, if the prosecution was written by a lawyer, that it must be dismissed. That's where we either didn't understand, or no one read the argument the government gave.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60370	MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60371	It would be good to read the attitude of Article 101. Proposal for a law on litigation. So whoever follows the text of the law can read, if the submission on behalf of the party is filed by the power of attorney, i.e. a public defender or a public prosecutor, incomprehensible or incomplete, the court will dismiss it. It stands here in Article 101, clearly, Mr. Munjic, there is nothing to be afraid of, if a lawyer delivers such an incomprehensible thing to the court, it will be rejected and already on the basis of Article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60372	National MP Mirko Munjic has been re-declared, but you do not have the right to reply, I think everything is fully clarified. The amendment was submitted to Article 311 by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 314 by Parliament of Parliament Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 355th amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60373	I am staying with the amendment and I think that this amendment is extremely correct, an amendment that allows for improving the text of the law, which points to procedural discipline, and it is just relying on the tradition of Serbian legislation, Serbian practice, court practice, starting from ordinary law to today. We know that you will not respect it, for those reasons I have spoken of, but it is important that we have submitted this amendment and that we have indicated that there is a danger of adverse consequences. That's not a phrase. The phrases were some who made drafts, there were a lot of phraseologies, but finally there was a proposal, there were objections, but these remarks were not respected by the professional public, which is a very big problem. As far as we're concerned, we want to take part in the debate when it comes to system laws, these are the most important laws, we want these laws to be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but we need to point out to the promoter that the many provisions of this law are in litigation and the CAP, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and some are even contrary to international contracts and international principles and conventions ratified by the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60374	The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic to Article 355. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Srdjan Mikovic, Petar Jojic and Vlatko Ratkovic, together with Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic and a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group, submitted an amendment to the same text. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60375	I feel the same as many of my colleagues that I should intervene in the bill and delete Article 368. In fact, Article 368 literally states that the appeal against a first-degree ruling requiring the natural person to pay the claim, whose principal does not exceed 300 euros in dinar equivalent at the middle-rate of the NBS on the day of the decision, i.e. by which the applicant or the legal person is ordered to pay the claim, whose principal does not exceed 1,000 euros in dinar equivalent at the middle-rate of the NBS on the day of the decision, does not delay the execution. Paragraph 2 states - if only the cost of the proceedings is imposed in the judgment, I assume the litigation procedure, although the draft law does not stand for any procedure, at a level which does not exceed the amount referred to in Article 1(1) of the complaint against the decision on the compensation of the costs of the proceedings does not delay the execution. In any case, what has been less attacked by the amendment, and it should also define the costs of the procedure if they enter into such a thing, because that position of the 2nd member does not bind anything to attitude 1, except the 300 euros and 1,000 euros alone. In some ways, it may be questionable whether only what is stated in the case is valid, because it might be convenient that only compensation for the costs of the litigation process should such a member remain. But where's the bigger problem? I think the bigger problem is that we're making a difference between parties. The second thing, certain judgments that are not rightful, we allow such judgments to be carried out, regardless of the intention to speed up the execution procedure, which absolutely has an excuse, to think about it, but I'm not sure that this way, that it will do well. There is a great danger of increasing the number of enforcement procedures, and if the person who carried out the obligation complains within the time limit and if the suspension occurs, there would be counter-execution, and that does not mean that this would be done, since the case, if abolished, can again be ruled and re-implemented in one way or another. If, in the meantime, there is a rise in the cost of a litigation process over 300 euros in dinar equivalent, that in some way, we are conditionally playing with enforcement and counter-execution. Then, the question arises in the first place, the appeal and the meaning of the appeal. I think this solution that the appeal does not retain the execution of the solution, or judgment on the possibility of submitting a proposal for enforcement, that we are practically putting the institutions of administrative law into litigation. These things should only be in the law of enforcement and security, as well as in the Law of Prosecution. Finally, I would now like to make some examples that can happen in practice. It is, for example, that in the compensation case, both the natural person and the insurance company at 400 euros in dinar equivalent, with the possibility of further complications to the possibility of a repayment of the insurance company to a natural person. We are in a situation where one who is a trustee can be charged by a legal person immediately, without waiting for the verdict to become a forceful one, and the insurance company, for example, or a legal person who needs to be regressed from a natural person must wait for the justice of the verdict to eventually exercise his rights. The other thing that can happen is that we have a physical face on the one hand, and on the other hand we have an entrepreneur or a legal person. In the case of justified claims, means, established claims on the one hand and on the other hand, for example, at 400 euros in dinar equivalent, one party may request enforcement on the other hand, while the other party cannot do so because this other party is a natural person, unlike entrepreneurs and legal persons. I am not sure that the differences made in the same procedure between faces, depending on whether a natural person, a legal person or an entrepreneur, is justified and whether it is all in agreement with those principles of the Constitution in terms of the equality of all, including the principle that they are all equal in the case, all sides among themselves. Therefore, by understanding absolutely the intention to speed up the enforcement process, which has a basis, I am not sure that we have found an ideal solution in this Article 368, and I therefore believe that it would be useful to delete this Article in 368, with the obligation of all of us to seek a solution in which it would allow for the acceleration of the execution and in procedures with a value of up to 300 euros or up to 1000 euros in dinar equivalentness.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60376	The word has a folk letter from Mrs Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60377	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I will put an accent on the fact that by not accepting this amendment, the court procedure does not seem more effective, but, conditionally speaking, a mess is being made. A colleague, Mikovic, placed an accent on the fact that the parties would not be equated, depending on whether the value is 1,000 or 300 euros. I think the point is that the procedure would be unjustly delayed, because, in fact, if a first-degree ruling was reached where one party succeeded in the dispute, therefore, it has the right to demand 300 euros from the other party, it immediately, since the appeal does not delay the execution of the solution, can seek the executive procedure of the 300 euros. Suppose she is in the executive procedure and gets that 300 euros, with the second-degree court returning if she abolishs that first-degree verdict, she will return the whole case to the first-degree court. Therefore, the other party that lost in the first-degree procedure has the right to oppose enforcement. So the question here is not just between the two parties, one has the right to execute, and the other one is against execution, so we're making a big mess. Now there's also a question of a lawyer who has the right to compensation. Therefore, after the first degree of judgment, since he succeeded in the dispute and that the appeal does not delay the execution of the solution, he will also have the right to compensation for the costs. Then, we have a complaint. It turns out that the lawyer essentially failed in the dispute because the second-degree court abolished the first-degree verdict. What happens now to those expenses he reimbursed after making the first-degree verdict? So, there's a mess going on. It doesn't make sense that the appeal does not delay the execution of the solution. I think it would be very comprehensive to adopt this amendment. The question arises, and who pays the practice of these proposals for execution, what happens to those taxes? I think you'd better think about adopting the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60378	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that it has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 383. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60379	The purpose of this amendment is to specify if the court concludes in a second-degree procedure that a debate should be held that it can be done within three months and that it will all end within nine months. It wasn't accepted, and I'm not surprised it wasn't accepted. You see for yourself, people who have some court experience, so something from practice is talking. What's it worth, Mikovic and Daniela, what are you talking about when these government guys have no idea what you're talking about? They don't understand what you're talking about. Where did you get the idea to put Euros in our law? Currency clause, the principle of nominalism, monetary nominalism. Who gave you the right to write foreign currency into our law? You could have entered the dinars and prescribed an inflation indexation, etc., as is tax regulations. This was the only regulation where the value of the dispute was determined in the euro. You're a little confused, we're not in the EU yet, we're not in the euro area. I'm just amazed, you didn't write the euro, you wrote the euro. That's forbidden. I'm going to file a criminal case against you. How can you write foreign currency? On what grounds? On the basis of which member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Money is a means to measure value, means of payment. If this can be provided in time, insert indexation provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60380	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 383. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that it has become an integral part of the draft law. The 403rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60381	Since this is article 403, I would first of all say that it is even more important than the amendments I have submitted, and where I have proposed a correction of the dinar equivalent with 100,000 euros to change to the dinar equivalent significantly lower. In the debate on the law on litigation in principle, I pointed out that it is difficult for any MP to give an overall assessment that these values were the most realistic value for a statement of the value limit, whether that is 100 000 euros in dinar equivalent to these disputes or for economic disputes of 300 000 euros or 100 000 euros or 150 000 euros or 200, it is very difficult. In some ways, there is a reason to retain the current solution in view of the currently in force Law on litigation, and we understand why these values are stated in the Bill of Law. However, I would use one more thing to say, and that is that the Justice and State Administration Committee itself has submitted an amendment to Article 403 where it proposes adding a new attitude 4 which should read: "that the revision is always allowed in copyright disputes, right to patent, right to industrial design and right to mark, as well as in disputes over infringement of those rights". In this regard, I call on all of you, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in particular when we discuss the proposal of the Committee on Justice and State Administration, we may pay even more attention to these amounts, where it is always disputable which is the value, because on the one hand, we have a request to enable everyone, where there is a possibility of a three-step test of justification, and on the other hand there is no need to devalue the work of the Supreme Casation Court to do all sorts of things, because it has justifications. The principle is our right to have two degrees in decision-making. So, in that sense, we need to find the right measure, whether the right measure is what's in the bill. I specifically put amendments in place just to open up here a debate on these limits, not claiming that what is absolutely ideal in my amendment, but also here we are talking about the second part, I suggest that what is said in the amendment of the Committee on Justice and Administration, that this should certainly be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60382	Thank you. Members of the 403rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. The word has Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60383	This amendment concerns the revision. He is similar to the amendment submitted by Mr. Mikovic. We fully support this argument we have now heard. We are also expressing our view that the amendment submitted by the Committee on Justice should be accepted, because it is more than exceeded. This amendment, as I said, refers to our request to reduce the amount of cash, i.e. the limit for the declaration of audit. We predicted that it would be eight thousand, let me say, euros, although we do not support the proposal for the monetary amount to be expressed in foreign currency. That's what we were talking about the moment this amendment was introduced into the now applicable Law on Prosecution. We fully support the idea of the legislator to make such solutions more efficient and economical in court proceedings. It is good that we have fully understood each other on this road, because a large number of our amendments that we have provided for deadlines, i.e. to specify deadlines for certain procedural actions in the litigation process, have been accepted and that is good. But we believe that such solutions in the litigation process, which specifically refer to the declaration of the audit, must not go to the harm of the parties in the process. It is totally unacceptable to allow a revision for disputes worth more than 100,000 euros, because it is something that does not come from real life. I think that every law should coincide with real life, and real life says that these disputes will be extremely little represented, in a percentage sense, they will be completely insignificant. I believe that the legislator had insight into the structure and analysis of certain litigation cases, i.e. all litigation cases in Serbia and that I know what I'm talking about, because these disputes are extremely rare. For example, there are us here in parliament from all sides, coming from various backgrounds – Knic, Lebane, Lajkovac, not to mention some smaller towns in Serbia, and it is absolutely amazing that if even in such courts there are even these disputes. I think, given the state's situation in the first place, how hard it is to live, it's unacceptable. I think I'm absolutely right when I say something like this. I also think that more than half of Serbia, to be completely realistic, will not be able to declare such an emergency legal remedy and that by defining an emergency legal drug, it is effectively abolished, instead of providing for its investment. Now, what is also unacceptable to me is what is written in an explanation for the rejection of our amendment, where it is said that a change in the height of the limit would pave the way for a breach of the principle of justice. Now if I wanted to be totally cynical, then I could say that such a solution will really contribute to some justice in that this extraordinary legal remedy will no longer apply to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60384	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 403rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60385	You can see that we have come into a situation where, by assessing this bill, we can freely say that it is one starting point and one starting material that could serve to pass a better law on litigation. Why am I saying that? Orders from a number of sides and from MPs of the SRS whose amendments were adopted by one number and the basis for the motion and government to adopt another number of amendments, as these amendments improved the text of the law. In addition, we had the opportunity to hear lawyers and lawyers who had experience in court practice. We've also seen a number of amendments. We are witnessing that you have adopted a number of amendments, which means that the applicants of the proposal and the amendment were right, and it is very important objections and very important amendments that you have adopted, which confirms the fact that the people who did this bill were not sufficiently concerned with relevant facts, when it comes to the law on litigation, because we want to have an effective litigation procedure. We all agree that we will.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60386	Time. Thank you. The 403rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 403 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 403. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 404 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60387	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, members of 403 and 404. The bill contains very illogical solutions. First, it is illogical that article 403 writes – the revision is always allowed when it has been prescribed by a special law, and Section 3 says – the revision is not allowed, and then lists in which cases the revision is not allowed. Therefore, the basic law governing the litigation procedure prescribes exceptions from when the revision is allowed, and a special law is generally allowed. It just doesn't make sense. Furthermore, Article 404 applies to our amendment, he says – the revision is extremely permissible because of the misapplication of material rights and against a second-degree verdict that could not be challenged by revision. Otherwise, from those situations referred to in Article 403 unless, according to the Court of Appeal’s assessment, it is necessary for the Supreme Court to consider legal issues of general interest or legal issues in the interests of equality of citizens, in order to level the case law, and if necessary, be careful now. I've never heard of this before, a new interpretation of the law. Then you say in an explanation why you don't accept the amendment, otherwise you give a typical explanation in 99% of the cases. Says – The government does not accept the amendment for the reason why the solution is given in the bill more comprehensively. Mrs. Malovic, the solution given in the bill, not that it is not more comprehensive, that solution from the bill's proposal in practice will create numerous abuses. Tell me, is there any objective criteria for parties to know in advance when the Court of Appeal will assess, or the Supreme Court of Cassation, that it is necessary to consider legal issues of general interest, or legal issues in the interests of citizens' equality, in order to bring about a new interpretation of the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60388	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60389	I would like to commend the bill in this part of Article 404. There is a situation in practice, where exactly the lack of such a legal solution has contributed to the emergence of inequality among parties. In particular, one procedure is currently in front of Strasbourg regarding the resolution of the rights of a large number of peasants, right from Bavanište, it is the neighbouring municipality next to Panchev, meaning the metal municipality, where there were 77 prosecutors, and only one prosecutor achieved by reviewing the law towards the state, while 76 did not, precisely because the Supreme Court found that it did not exceed the audit value. It's about the same seed corn, it's about the same whole relationship, aside from what the Supreme Court then missed, and it's not about 5-6 peasants that went over the review value, but all those poor people couldn't make it through the audit, and only the richest one who, due to the value of the so far, was able to make a contribution, he made it before our judge. There are absolutely such reasons where the possibility should be opened sometime precisely because of the equality of citizens. There is no excuse to delete Article 404. Because you will allow, if the first-degree court finds out something against both the state and the legal person, then the second-degree says the state is not guilty, and then, according to the review, only one succeeds against the state, and the rest fail because of the reviscian value. Is that a reason to make such a thing possible, or should we contribute that all these procedures are resolved much more expensive, in front of Strasbourg or in front of someone else? For this reason, I know specifically from practice why it is good to keep one of these options, why we need to have a special revision. In any case, I believe that such things are very useful for the legal system in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60390	MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60391	I'm also against accepting this amendment. I think we need these legal issues that will give more court instance during the course of certain proceedings. I will give an example, which, thanks to the later legal opinion of the once Supreme Court of Serbia, led to a great imbalance of citizens ahead of our law. After the break-up of the SFRY, persons who were either mobilized or were members of the JNA, could claim immaterial damage within the time limits prescribed by law. So three years since the accident or three years from the end of the treatment. After that, somewhere between 1997, 1998 and 1999, the Supreme Court, I do not remember correctly, took the legal view that the secession was a crime and that the 15-year deadlines were valid. Meanwhile, many who have exceeded the three-year deadline have been rejected by judicial decisions and have no longer been able to conduct litigation in the same legal matter. Those who exceeded the five, six or seven-year deadline could, thanks to the new opinion of the Serbian Supreme Court, exercise the right. So only in this vacuum have the persons who have not filed charges within a period of time, or the claims have been rejected, factually, legally, by a court ruling, been denied the rights which belonged to the persons who before and after that submitted the claim. This provision is very good. It is certain that in practice, and we can list many cases, that citizens will be equal and equal before the law and before the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60392	Thank you. Member of the 407th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60393	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As regards Article 407(1), we proposed that it be deleted. I have to say that these provisions that have been and from previous arguments that we have heard from colleagues about the level of human rights that cannot be reduced, these are just denying certain rights to our citizens when it comes to reviewing. When it comes to revisions, I think the promoter was well aware of what EU experts have said about the revision and is it appropriate that we have 100,000 in dinar equivalent, the right to submit an audit, and in Germany to make it 20,000? That's absolutely inappropriate. Secondly, why is the Supreme Casation Court exempt from the relevant obligations to determine certain facts when the Lord's House of Lords solves a number of issues? I link that to the number and composition of the court that needs to solve certain cases. You see, that's not the case with us. Gentlemen, you've been from the DS in power for 10 years. I have to show this verdict and I still have an unfinished lawsuit. This is Mr. Borisvoje Jeremic, who filed a lawsuit in Belgrade in 1969, from Vrajcar. His lawsuit is still going on. More lawyers and judges have changed and died. The second case was the case of Radoja and Dusanka Milinkovic from Nikojevic at Uzic, who served 33 years in the case of compensation for damages because their son died in the military. It wasn't about efficiency. If you are taking care of efficiency, which you do not accept the amendments of people sitting and proposing in this House, and it is about improving the text... This law will be that will not allow efficiency. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60394	Time. Thank you. To Article 407. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60395	Madam Minister, you've set out in reverse order. First, you have made an assessment of how much you can choose from existing judges, or perhaps experts who meet the requirements of the law to be judges. You made the choice of judges, and then you started changing the legislation. That's not good. If someone is now complaining about the Court of Appeal, how they are too busy to do so, if they have to decide on the revision, which is what article 107 says about it, too much work will be done for them. There are two reasons where you completely missed when you talked about the audit. One reason is, and it has already been said by counterpart Krasic, that you are predicting the euro in the dinar equivalent. With what right and where did that come from? It's on one side. On the other hand, these are extremely high monetary amounts. Where is the possibility and how much will it be possible to run the audit request, if the equivalent is 100,000 euros? A large number of people today are being tried, not for 100,000 euros, I'm talking about individuals, but for much less amounts. You're the one that's limiting it. Why did you limit it? Because in the first degree and second degree, someone will condemn, and then there's no way to make it right later. This is the time, I think, to prepare winters, it would be much better to do so than to move in vain. We're gone, we're gonna discuss this, but it's pointless, so many provisions that don't lead to anything, there's no improvement in this bill, that something like this hasn't happened in a long time. I will not dispute your good wishes, and I will not glorify it, for God's sakes, but you are not here to grant good wishes, you are the minister of justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where you must direct, determine, determine and conduct politics, and not to assume that you may have had a good desire, and that the law, ultimately, that will be adopted in this House, is not to say senselessly, but not to match at all what it was meant to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60396	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Nobody answers the word: The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 421. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60397	Article 421 speaks of a request for review of a judicial verdict. So it's one of the emergency legal remedies and it's filed by a public prosecutor. It is filed by the Public Prosecutor to the Supreme Cassation Court, the Republic Public Prosecutor to the Supreme Cassation Court. Article 421 has four positions and is regulated when a public prosecutor submits this request for review of a judicial verdict. He's handling it in cases where he's injured by public interest. We have proposed to add another position 5, which says – if the Republic's public prosecutor rejects the motion to examine the judicial ruling to the Supreme Cassation Court, or if it does not submit it within the deadline set out in Article 3, which is within 30 days of this article, the initiative may submit a request to the Supreme Cassation Court within 30 days of the date of receipt of the decision to reject the initiative or from the date of missing the deadline laid down in Article 3 of this Act. We were guided by the fact that a very often public prosecutor, a republican public prosecutor, is being passive in relation to the injured public interest. We have suggested that the person concerned, or whoever launched the initiative, have the opportunity to forward the request and that it be treated as a request to the Supreme Court of Cassation. You, in your reasons for not accepting this amendment, have said that the rights and responsibilities of a public prosecutor are laid down in the Law on Public Prosecutors and that no one has the right to exert influence and pressure on public prosecutors. There is no influence or pressure here at all, either, but the Supreme Court of Cassation will make a final decision, only when a reasonable doubt is made that the public interest has been injured, that the application for the protection of legality, or reviewing the judgment, is submitted to the Supreme Court of Cassation unless the public prosecutor wishes to do so within the time limit provided for.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60398	Thank you. The 426th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60399	I'm staying with this amendment, I think it's an amendment that can improve the text of the law. As part of this law on litigation, I would point out, as well as the law on criminal proceedings, that judges and prosecutors are no worse in Serbia than other judges and prosecutors in Europe. We have a problem, first of all, with judges and prosecutors because we have no solution to the material issue and other status problems, where, in what conditions and what equipment should judges and prosecutors have at their disposal. What is related to the Law on Prosecutive Procedure is that experts from Europe have indicated that it is a bad approach to buy what is best for others in the world. They said that we have a system that basically works, we just need to improve it. You know what doesn't work in our justice system? Look what the Slovenians did. The example of Slovenia speaks enough. They had the same CAP as us. When they split up, they wanted to do everything a lot different and better, but they still kept the Law of Parley Procedure from the old country, or SFRY. With Austrian, German and French law and their systems, we cannot take over from Anglo-Saxon law, because Europe is far from America, America is a promised country. When it comes to the EU, we do not have to call all of us to the EU, because we are not yet members of the EU. Right? On the other hand, when we become members, then we can possibly talk, but let me say, in the end, that the EU does not pour itself into a tractor and a combination. Our peasants must know that, our farmers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60400	Thank you. The 426th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60401	This article shall refer to the reasons for which the case may be repeated. I'll comment on these reasons under number 11 and number 12. You have also unnecessarily reached a verdict by the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision on a constitutional appeal, all of this can fit the point of the 10th same member. Why isn't it good that you're doing this? For one simple reason, which you know for a fact that the European Court of Human Rights and the Council of Europe have a big problem making the UK respect their decisions, because the English don't care about the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. The situation is similar with Ukraine, Russia, etc. The question is, who appreciates that decision at all, and do they have any weight? Furthermore, here you have forgotten one thing, in this proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights, our man is suing our country, and our country is represented by an agent, and in litigation where two parties, Pera and Djok, appear, none are represented in the European Court of Human Rights. But what do you care, you've had to put in the European Court of Human Rights to justify the application, because you're supposed to appreciate some things. Not to mention the European Court of Human Rights, tomorrow I'll tell you a little bit more about it, when you swear to restitution, and you've cheated on it, and that's not true there either, not at all. As far as our Constitutional Court ruling is concerned, according to the constitutional appeal, it explains that some shortcomings are being eliminated. But the question arises – if human rights violations are observed, what does that have to do with any property dispute? This is how you put this formulation, round and round on the corners. A man gets a decision from the Constitutional Court and immediately requests a retrial. You practically gave that opportunity, because it's all about the court's assessment. One more sentence, Mr. Novakovic. We had an opportunity to hear earlier, obviously a man wants to be a judge, and by mistake he is a lawyer, so the principle of equality has to be in law, not able to discreetly appreciate whether or not the Supreme Court will allow someone to audit.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60402	Thank you. The word is Mr. Mikovic Srdjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60403	I believe that a good solution to the bill is a good solution, because, in any case, the procedure which the court's decision has rightly ended should be able to repeat itself on a proposal by the party, if the Constitutional Court in the constitutional appeal procedure established an infringement or a denial of human or minority rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution in a litigation procedure, which could have been of an impact on making a more favourable decision. I would not agree with the amendment's proposal to delete it, I think that these contribute more to the protection of our citizens, means more full protection of our citizens. That's why I think the bill is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60404	Thank you. Mr. Chiquiriz Mirko has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60405	Of course, this provision should not be deleted from the draft law, it is also related to the former member, paragraph 11) and to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. We are witnesses, here is my colleague Petar Jojic, whom I called a true European the other day, because today he is also calling for French legislation, and for German legislation, and for Italian, Austrian, etc. They were mainly an example of traditional Serbian legislation in the making of a Serbian civil code, which was made by the reputation of the Austrian and German civil code. It is certain that even today, in the era of respect for human rights at the highest level of administration in the countries of the European Union, that respect for human rights should also be incorporated into our legal system. It is certain that human rights in relation to human history are at the highest today in the countries of the European Union. She, unfortunately, is not at that level in Ukraine or Russia or Belarus. No matter what we want them to be, neither their legislation is a model to us, not just us, not just colleagues to Peter Jojic, but it seems to me to anyone in the world. But all those who trespass on respect for human rights, at the moment when their personal human rights are threatened, and how they are called upon to provisions on the protection of their personal rights. It's the most common case when one who's had a hard time breaking human rights is being processed and then you see everything he once boasted, means by violating human rights, now he feels best on his skin, and then he calls out and how he studies human rights. For this reason, I think that if the Constitutional Court has a role in us, although in the constitutional appeal procedure, it finds that a human or minority right, or freedom guaranteed by the Constitution in a litigation procedure, is violated or denied, it is certain that such a provision must be incorporated into this law and that it must be dropped.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60406	Members of the 468th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60407	The Honorable chairman, Mrs Malovic, is one of the most important remarks the Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary club has highlighted on the bill. It's about low-value disputes. Exactly the way you defined the final amount, which is defined as slow little values, is about the problems that will arise in practice when this law is applied. First, the level of value of the dispute is really too high. Taking into account the situation in which the majority of citizens who seek and who have disputes against other applicants, the structure of the cases in a large number of courts, especially in smaller areas, will be seen to be marked by the largest number of cases, and here we also have the undeniable part as the level of the value of the dispute below 3,000 euros in dinar equivalent. What's the key problem? The key problem is, I'm not talking about some perspective right now, that God knows that Serbia is a rich society and that citizens have much higher incomes, and in the extreme line from all this social activity and social life and relations in a rich society, there are certainly disputes that will have a higher value, etc. In this case, in two-thirds of Serbia, the largest number of cases in courts will be small-value disputes. The general litigation procedure, which we have been discussing for the third day, will be applied in a very small number of cases, mostly in large cities, where they are not business disputes where the other person is an entrepreneur. A very small number of disputes where the two natural persons in the dispute will be these values. In this case, it's somewhere over 300,000 dinars. In small towns, from Mali Ijoš in Vojvodina to Bujanovac, how many disputes are there in courts? There's a problem with what small-value disputes are and what the process is. It's a key story. So, dominantly, according to the DSS, it will be small-value disputes in which litigation will be applied, but these disputes, especially in terms of legal medicines, have a serious problem. This shows the legislator's intention to narrow down the possibility of legal medicines to the fullest extent possible and to speed up the procedure, unfortunately, at the expense of the parties in the process. When it comes to small-value disputes, in the matter of complaints, we do not have the opportunity to refute a first-degree verdict because of the wrong and incomplete factual state. This also has its consequences on emergency legal medicines. counterpart Milica Radovic spoke about the revision, and it does not exist in fact, it is being introduced here as an emergency legal remedy, but in the application of 100,000 euros is the value of the dispute. You're disabling a statement of review, that's what you're supposed to say here. A 100,000-euro dispute is being held in towns of 20-30-40 residents. I'd like the colleagues who come from these places to say if they've heard there's such a dispute. Since you cannot refute a first-degree verdict because of an incompletely established factual state, and the revision is practically impossible, let's see what is the real status and request for a repeat procedure. Again, we look at the statistics and the structure of the requests made for repetition of the procedure and what are the reasons why the emergency legal remedy is most often declared. There's a fellow attorney and a lawyer here who's had a chance to write this extraordinary legal remedy. It's most often as foreseen here at point 10, and everything else is minimal cases that the court is so wrong, it's not properly drawn up to make a decision on a false statement. These are differences that occur in practice, which are why the request for a repeat procedure is made. So, when the party finds out about the new facts or acquires the possibility to use new evidence based on which a more favourable decision could be made for the party, that these facts or evidence were used in the previous proceedings. In this situation, the party is prevented from stating the request for a repeat procedure. So, the general litigation procedure, as foreseen here, will be applied in a very small number of cases, the dominant litigation of small values, will not be able to disprove the verdict due to the incompletely established factual state of affairs, will not be realistically able to state the revision, because such disputes are almost impossible, not existing in Serbia and, above all, it will be impossible to succeed with the statement of the only remaining emergency remedy, and this is a request to repeat the procedure. Here we want to get to know both the Assembly and the public that citizens will in fact be disabled, regardless of what is prescribed, by saying emergency legal medicines due to such a certain level of value of the dispute, on the basis of which small-value disputes are determined. This is the key objective and the key intention of the legislator, which is seen in the statement of the audit and in this institute, to speed it up, that the matter should be completed as soon as possible, to bring down the minimum possibility for the declaration of emergency legal medicines and regular legal remedies, in this case the appeal, as it happens that the court is wrong with the application of material law, but most often the judgments are lifted because of the erroneous factual situation. It's disabled here. You've brought the whole litigation process down to small-value disputes, I'm telling you, in practice. This will not end well, the citizens are denied access to justice, they are denied that the procedure before the court determines the correct facts and that judgment is based on them, because we cannot think that the first-degree court is conscious. Why is there a higher court, to reconsider the verdict, and when it is wrong in determining the facts, there is a series of institutes that we have talked about in the amendments, which, unfortunately, will lead to this being done in carrying out the evidence process. Not to say that this procedure is shortened, that no answer to the complaint is provided, that it all ends at one hearing. You've done this very badly. We have proposed to lower that amount to 500 euros in dinar equivalent, to allow for the possibility to be applied in small places to the institute of general litigation procedure, to declare complaints and to make real use of emergency legal medicines. This is a big mistake and this is going to be a fat reverse to this litigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60408	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 468 by MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 470th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalić, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 475th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 476 of the amendment, the MPs Jovan Palalić, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together. Mrs. Radovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60409	Thank you. This amendment stems from the amendments that we have submitted to Article 468, more specifically small-value disputes. We really want to point out the problem that is present and will be present in our litigation procedure when these solutions come into life. Again, I mention that it is very important and commendable on one side to pursue a more economical and efficient process, but certainly not at the expense of the rights of the parties in the process and not at the expense of the truth that must be a priority in the litigation process, of course not just in the litigation and criminal procedure, because we said what we had on the moment we discussed it, but I won't go back to it again. I believe that the truth here must be a priority, and that the legislator did not put the truth in his own, or the top priorities he should have set as such. The example of such a thing is small-value disputes. I will remind and supplement what my colleague said that disputes are small-value disputes that are extremely short, where there is no preparatory hearing, where the complaint is not submitted to the defendant for answer, where all evidence is carried out until the first hearing is concluded, where, in fact, immediately after the main hearing is concluded, the rulings and the publication. What is most important, in the appeal of the verdict, is not allowed to bring forward new facts, i.e. to submit new evidence, and therefore we believe that citizens' rights will be and will be threatened by such regulation, because I repeat, they will be the percentage of disputes in our litigation process and that, in most cases, the factual litigation will precisely come to light on small-value disputes. As I explained in the revisions, I don't think the bill promoter came from real life, and the real life in Serbia says that 1/5 citizens live well and 4/5 citizens literally survive. For this reason, these parameters that I will not speak of as much as I do have to be taken into account by the Proposer and that a simple real life should be included in what this bill is so that it can be applied at all, and later and acceptable. We think, and why we simply point to these problems this many times, we think that it is really not a well-regulated value of the dispute either in the revision or in the slow little value, and that it is really necessary to change that. We're not asking for our amendment to be adopted. We have also seen that the proposings of certain amendments come from the ruling coalition and that they also come out with the same demands, and I think it is necessary that you think about this one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60410	Member of the 479th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am very sorry that this bill was prepared and drawn up by people with extensive court experience and court practice. Among them, it is unfortunate that Professor Veroljub Rajović, the famous and legendary professor at the Faculty of Law, who has been teaching procedural law for 40 years. I am sorry that the objections and the prominent lawyer Besaric Jova from Belgrade, who pointed out during a professional public debate that this bill should be improved and better. Mrs. Malovic, we don't know today in Serbia how many judges we have. Compared to England and Germany, we should compare. Germany is about 10 times bigger, so almost England. How many judges do we have today, regardless of our choice and re-election, how many judges do we have, and how proportionally do we have this other state? You have another problem, one illogicality, that this will become nonsense in our law, which is the disciplinary responsibility of the judge. You spoke here the other day that a provision was first introduced on the disciplinary responsibility of the judge. A disciplinary application is filed. The disciplinary report is being decided by a disciplinary judge, but has no right to participate in the proceedings filed by a disciplinary application, even has no right to appeal. This is really nonsense if you look at it from a formal legal point of view, because if the party has filed a disciplinary application, it is prevented from participating in the procedure of determining whether or not the judge has sinned, whether or not he has exceeded his powers, he has no right to appeal, and the Constitution in Article 32 of Article 36 provides that everyone has the right to appeal. There are great shortcomings here, so I suggest we just consider this, and we expect this to be one basis for some new future law on litigation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60412	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 480. The word has a minister, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60413	On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment, since I believe that the definition given in the amendment is much more precise and much better than it is in the draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60414	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 483. The word has a minister, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60415	I also accept this amendment on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia because I believe that this amendment is more specifically regulated by the possibility of calling off party representatives' actions in the economic dispute.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60416	The amendments to the same text were submitted by MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Vlatko Ratkovic and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 485th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60417	I suggested in Article 485 that "a dinar equivalent of 300,000 euros" be replaced by the words "a dinar equivalent of 100,000 euros", in economic disputes, that the limit value for the revision be lower than what is in the bill. I claim there are reasons both for and against. This amendment is also practically submitted to open the discussion here at the plenary table and on the committee to discuss the justification or possibly some correction of the very value provided for by the draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60418	Members of the 485th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60419	When it comes to economic disputes, our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment, saying it is absolutely unrealistic that the value of a dispute in which a statement of review can be raised this high, to 300,000 euros in dinar equivalent, and we see that colleagues from the ruling majority have also seen the problem. Of course, there are now simple discussions about what this really value should be, but I believe that the ministry is also aware of the problem that will arise when economic disputes are concerned, in fact, disabling the statements of the revision. This is the last amendment our MP group will speak of. Indeed, we have invested a significant number of amendments and the ministry has accepted and we thank this time for the amendments accepted, but these fundamental amendments that will disrupt the whole process and, in fact, the good solution found in the general litigation process will not be realistically applied because of the application of the small-value dispute solution. There was an opportunity through another number of our amendments to correct the bill. This leaves the impression that regardless of the amendments that have been adopted, the real life, in reality what is going to happen in practice will derivate a series of solutions that we have had here to discuss in the work on a general litigation procedure. That's not the point. Me and my colleagues, through our discussion, have tried to point it out. It is not a matter of getting someone out of a lawsuit and the judge saying that he solved the case and that he was not in a position to be told against the verdict by a complaint that refutes himself because of the incompletely established facts of the verdict. That's not the point. The bottom line is that one real event that caused a dispute between parties is settled in a fair way. This is not possible without a versatile search at the hearing, without carrying out all the evidence and of course reviewing judgments by senior courts. You tried to put it all aside, burdened by probably the experience and problems that exist in the litigation, which is because of the length of the procedure. Don't let that pressure, which they exercise with the right of citizens because their litigation takes a long time, the pressure that various international institutions put on us, be overwhelming and be the key motive in adopting such a law. This lawsuit should lead to justice and a fair solution, where no one will come out damaged, unsatisfactory and to whom the state will be responsible for everything. There are always dissatisfactions, but this lawsuit should bring anyone who comes out of it to realize that he did everything he could to protect his interests, that the state had enabled him to do so, but that he simply got slow because they overcame the facts and went beyond the law and went beyond a fair trial. Unfortunately, this kind of litigation won't make it possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60420	The 487th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 508th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. There's no answer for word. The word has a minister, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60421	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank all the MPs who debated in the debate in principle and in the debate in particular. I also thank those MPs who have proposed amendments in order to improve this text of the law and in order to have one litigation procedure that will correspond to the citizens of Serbia, in order to bring justice as quickly as possible. I will now, at the end of the debate in particular, remind the most important newspaper that provides for this draft law on litigation, which was discussed during these several discussions, as I have said both in principle and in detail. This bill stipulates that the parties have the right to legal, equal and fair protection of their rights, and the court does not have the right to refuse a decision on the legal matter for which it is responsible. Then, the principle of party disposition affirmed, so that the party's right to comply throughout the process, which according to the current law, which is still in force, is not all about justice, as well as the prosecutor's right to withdraw the suit, also to justice. The Court is obliged to take into account only the facts proposed by the parties, in respect of which the evidence is provided, while the court is an arbitration panel esteemed under the legal rules. As I pointed out during these few days, I think that this way we will contribute to having a transition and judicial procedure and that it does not happen that the court still acts as it did at a time when we had a different social arrangement, and when the court serves to protect social property. Special attention shall be paid to the principle of trial within a reasonable period of time. In this respect, it is envisaged that at the beginning of the litigation procedure, together with the litigator parties, the court should be obliged to establish a time frame for taking certain litigation actions, which shall split the responsibility for the trial within a reasonable period of time between the court and the litigation parties. The duty of saving litigation and procedural discipline has been highlighted. In this respect, the parties are obliged to act securely, and the court has the right and obligation to prevent and punish any abuse of procedural powers. A special competence has been introduced in consumer rights disputes, and this intervention was necessary according to the consumer's residence, as EU directives require specific consumer protection. Provisions relating to the exclusion and exemption of judges are specified by the deadlines, the requirement for exemption, exclusions in order to prevent the abuse of this institute. As regards these provisions, special attention has been paid, and in the debate in this distinguished home, we have seen that, unfortunately, in practice, there have been cases that have been very often misused by these institutes. I am deeply convinced that these provisions contained in this bill will disable in one part and prevent the possibility of such abuses. The party is then scheduled to participate in the procedure independently and through its proxies, which can only be a lawyer. This allows for a consistent implementation of a constitutional provision whereby legal assistance can only be provided by lawyers. The proposed solution guarantees the integrity of the proceedings and the Court itself, as well as the fair, legal, effective protection of the rights of parties, and in the extreme line and the economy of the proceedings itself. In addition, the party must be represented by a lawyer in the legal treatment procedure. These provisions should also be considered under the provisions of the Law on Lawyerry. In May, we had the pleasure to discuss these provisions and to my satisfaction these provisions have now been applied and I certainly think that it will contribute to the affirmation of the honorable profession of law enforcement, because there is no judicial reform unless reform is carried out in the law itself. In line with the development of modern technologies and appropriate practices in European and other developed countries, following home experience in the application of electronic communications, greater application of information technologies in the litigation process is envisaged, which is the possibility of sending submissions in electronic form. In that respect, the records may also be drawn up on the basis of a tone and optical record, if technical possibilities exist in the court. I can tell you right now that the Ministry of Justice is paying special attention to this, because it is our obligation to create uninterrupted conditions for the work of judicial authorities and courts and prosecutors, and this is the subject of our attention and wherever possible, we are increasingly introducing information technologies and these opportunities. It's also a pleasure to tell you that, for example. a program for the automatic handling of the case has been introduced into all basic courts. According to our statistics so far there are about 140,000 people who have visited the website, so this is also a way that will contribute to even greater transparency, but also efficiency of the process. The Court and the parties are then obliged to adhere to a fixed time frame for taking steam actions, and the hearing may only be postponed for the purpose of carrying out evidence or preventing the judge. In the event that the hearing is postponed, the court must establish a new timeframe for the implementation of the procedure. This is how it contributes, as I said both the economic and efficiency of the process. One of the most important newspapers contained in the draft law refers to the delivery of letters, since the existing legal solution does not allow the effective conduct of the procedure. Based on these provisions, there was a very large delay in proceedings and violations of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The draft law excludes the possibility of unsuccessful delivery, thus allowing the proceedings to continue and significantly reduce the length of the case. The paper is a solution that parties can directly deliver submissions to each other, with the obligation to provide evidence of delivery to the court. Thereafter, penalties for non-compliance with procedural discipline are prescribed for insulting the procedure, abuse of procedural powers, obstruction of litigation and delivery of letters. Given that the rights of litigators are recognised for the protection of their rights in the proceedings, it is also necessary to prescribe sanctions for the use of these rights against the purpose of which they are recognised, or their abuse. Then, the parties may hire experts from the register of judicial experts and propose their findings and opinions, with the court estimating all evidence and concluding in accordance with the burden rule of proof. The provisions should also be reviewed within the framework of the new Law on Witches, which took effect last year and on July 1st of this year, so that a complete list of experts can now be found on the website of the Justice Ministry and, of course, on the website of the courts where they applied. It is prescribed that the court, together with the parties at the preparatory hearing, determine which facts are controversial and determine the evidence to be carried out. The Court of Justice shall, as a rule, schedule only one hearing for the main debate, as I said, if it considers necessary, it may be held for several days consecutively or at certain intervals in accordance with the established timeframe. In order to strengthen procedural discipline, the ruling was returned due to the absence. The deadline for submission of requests for repetition of proceedings as the most important legal remedy has been extended. Two new special procedures have been introduced. Procedure in consumer disputes and procedure for the protection of collective rights and the interests of citizens. Finally, the law is scheduled to take effect on 1 February so that all relevant participants in the litigation process can be informed of their provisions. I thank you once again to all those MPs who participated in the debate as she had said to those who had tabled amendments, and I hope that by adopting this bill, we will make the litigatory procedure as effective as possible, on the one hand. On the other hand, Serbia's citizens will be able to move faster to create their rights before the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60422	Thank you. Since we've completed the review of the amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in voting day according to the draft law in principle, detail and general. This is where we finished our morning work. Based on article 87, I'm setting a break, and this afternoon we'll proceed to the next item of the agenda at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60423	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs continue to work in the afternoon, by searching in particular 4 points of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Business Secrets Notice of the invited to the session. I am notifying the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the President of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for a search in detail 4) on the agenda point The proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets called for today's session with representatives of the promoter Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education and Science, to attend Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science, Branka Totic, director of the Institute for Intellectual Property and Mirela Boskovic, assistant director of the Institute for Intellectual Property. The fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE PROTECTION OF BUSINESS SECRET You have received amendments that were submitted under the bill by the MPs: Gordana Pavanovic-Milosavljevic, Milica Vojić-Marković, Dragan Stevanović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović, Dejan Mirović, Vladjan Jeremic, Natasa Jovanovic, Aleksandar Martinović, Zoran Krasić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Arsen Đurić, Jovan Palalić, Miroslav Petkovic, Vjerica Radeta, Tomislav Nikolic, Jurvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljavrić and Borjadić Miljić, Žalić, Žilić. You have received a report from the Committee on Science and Technological Development of the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. The Government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović. Before I give you my word to remind you that representatives are authorized, besides the president of the PUPS parliamentary groups – Konstantin Arsenovic, for the SPS-JS parliamentary group – Miletic Mihajlovic, for the DSS parliamentary group – Jovan Palalic and for the SRS parliamentary group – Dragan Stevanovic, who has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is true that Mrs. Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic's amendment has been accepted and I would not say anything about it in particular, but it seems to me that there really is a need to comment again on this article of the first law and that in principle something is said again that would in principle represent the continuity of the SRS story from the principle debate. Our opinion is that what you've tried to do with this law, to ensure the legal protection of business secrets, you really won't make it through to the end with this law on the one hand, and on the other hand, we think that this is such a defined crutch, vaguely and briefly, regardless of the fact that you've accepted a good number of amendments to the SRS, will not provide adequate legal protection, and it seems to me that it will be a good basis for individuals to whom this law applies, from individuals to institutions, to use this to abuse. Why do I say that? I'm saying this because the law was created not because the state recognized the need to solve and edit this area, this occurs as yours, the government's need to like someone who desperately despises us. It's the EU. From political to economic life, evidence of such things is daily and exists. It is something that no one in Serbia can or wants to dispute. Everyone spreads out, I'd say, and they support this attitude. But it does not free us from the obligation to write good laws, laws that will be a healthy answer to certain things in the country and in the time in which we all live today. I repeat, this is how the SRS sees it. What's the matter, Minister? The reason for the law states that this area treats, for example, the Business Society Act. When you open the Business Society Act, you see that business secrets are regulated through three members. Minister, I claim that what the business secret is about under the Business Society Act is more clearly defined than the law on the protection of business secrets has defined it all. I guess it was normal, or if relations in the government, in institutions, were right, we would first adopt a law on the protection of business secrets, and then what applies to business secrets in the Law on business societies would be appropriate and consistent with the law on the protection of business secrets. It's all wrong with us. Because it's all wrong, because it's the wrong political path we're going, then you get the article 1 that we have in this law. I asked that question on behalf of the SRS in the principle debate. I'm really interested in ministers who's going to get to know which act, which document is based on this law, which is going to get used to what is financial economic data that represents a business secret? The Business Society Act even stands for what can't be a business secret. Although in general, it stands at one point what can't be a business secret under that law. There's no such thing in this law. We believe that perhaps you should have in this article or in another member to say at least what cannot be treated as a business secret, or to empower someone to define through a sublegal act or some other activity what companies do, legal entities will not be able to treat as business secrets. What is controversial for the SRS, and having experience with the public sector governed by this state, we do not consider that under such a bad law, those who will be called upon to this law are unprotected. We believe that, especially in the public sector, abuse and appeal to this law will take place, and you know it well. Because there's corruption, unconsciously, irresponsiblely, one way or another business. Even in the economy, you have the fact that you do not want participants in a business life to be prone to these good business practices or principles of corporate governance. You have companies that go out on the market, so they don't want to make a statement about themselves, even though they're obliged and obliged to do so, so they won't do it again. The SRS believes that with this general attitude, general Article 1, you're going to create space for participants in a business life or at all those who can have a business secret within their functioning, I think you're going to have the opportunity for certain abuses. It's not enough to apply to legislation. To legislation that even though some of them are in general declarative, let me say, the document, they wrote more in their single-member document than the legislator of this law in the whole of the law. Here you are referring to this Paris Convention, its member of the 10th Bis, here I have it in front of me in four or three attitudes it says more than in this whole law. At least things are more concrete, you know what they're talking about. It is said that the countries of the Union, we are not a member of the Union, nor will we ever be, and it would be good if you didn't call on this, and it has the brains and knowledge in Serbia to do this right, undertake to provide for the members of the Union, I don't know what is binding on us, real protection against unfair competition. Imagine how much that is and what level the competition is in the position of unfair competition in Serbia. You have Mr. Minister something about a business secret. In 2003, there was a burglary, and I don't think that epilogue got it until today. Data were stolen from an economic bureau, for over 100 Serbian companies that expected the privatisation process. We are talking about unfair or loyal competition in Serbia. The privatisation process was carried out, as it was carried out, for this to this day it seems that no one has responded. And what happened in that context in Serbia through the privatisation process, for God's sake, you're all witnesses and you all know it. You know, we're making a declaration that we're calling for something that we're really not able to secure, loyal competition, and there's no political will to make it right and change it. It says - an act of unfair competition represents any act of competition that is contrary to fair practices in industry and trade. Is this country institutionally ready to secure that? It's not. What kind of law enforcement will be, we can only assume. In particular, it is necessary to prohibit any acts which, by their nature, can create confusion, whatever means, with undertakings, products, industrial or commercial activity of a competitor. This state is unable to provide it, so your obligation was to write a law, which will clearly draw lines and make clear the specifics and amendments you accepted at the SRS, show that it was partly for such a thing and was heard, which means that the law could have been completely different, much more precise and more concrete to write, and not to be so general, and that, in its essence or in accordance with the practice that we have so far, the moment the assembly procedure went through, that it would go into the drawer and that it would stand, and that you would light up your European agenda, here's another European law that we adopted, that the state was breaking down and falling, that we don't have jobs, and we want to keep business secrets, and obviously nobody cares. Therefore, we believe that for the remaining three or four amendments, you have had enough arguments to accept. We will try to continue the debate to convince, although we believe and that they will not be able to provide adequate application of this law, nor will it give positive effects in practice and in life in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60425	Nine minutes used by an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Milica Vojić-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60426	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that the DSS has submitted five amendments, respectively, well in practice to define this law, this minister, none of which has been adopted. So much for something a little different now. I'll start with one fact that's only obvious, according to which the legislator and the DSS are completely in agreement. So, the law is needed, this area has to be regulated, if the established Serbian economy is at all possible to help in this way, because it has no chance of being competitive to another economy that, for some business secrets that can be commercial, as the law's proposer says, can provide commercial resources. So the loyalty that no one here mentions, nor is the law mentioned, nor is there anything in the social atmosphere that is recognized and clearly not to be mentioned. The law is needed, we're totally in agreement with that, we're calling again on this Wikilix story, but apparently the bill promoter and the DSS have completely different concepts when it comes to this law. We believe that the problems are related to the protection of business secrets, and how they emerged from the general atmosphere in Serbia, which you cooked and this authority has led to the notion that loyalty no longer exists, no one recognizes, no one knows what it means. The proposal that lies before us absolutely will not contribute to improving the situation in this area, not because the law is completely empty, it has no more holes in the law, as our people like to say but has tunnels in the law. Through those tunnels, obviously someone has to get through, through those tunnels someone has to go, and not to look at them, obviously, they're big players, they're small players, they're running through the tunnels, they're big players that this law is meant to get through. The big players in Serbia are gone about it we've read from this list of five hundred, so the big players should come somewhere on the side. An example of what I've said is the fantastic Public Procurement Act, which also applies in Serbia, and the law that was meant to prevent corruption has become the main momentum and the main factor of corruption in the country. A law like the bill before us, which needs to actually regulate the area of business secrets, will contribute to never getting rid of this area. But I simply must conclude that anyone in this country, of this government, who reports from its ministers, who does not report their reports here in front of the MPs and before the Assembly, but submits them to some foreign embassies. So does anyone expect the government to pass before this parliament a bill that should protect the country's interests. He's not expecting it. The law is full of some general places, and the general place never follows a good law. When you have these common places, and when you have common places, they mean one thing to me, and to you another, there is no word of good law. Here's an example of good business practices. Former Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic has often used good business practices in his laws as a term to represent something in a legal act called the law. So, on a simple case, I'm going to show you that what you call a good business tradition doesn't have to be for all of us, too. Here's one of the last examples is whether for you, Mr. Minister, it's a good business custom for Minister Markovic, your colleague in the government, to call you directly to blame in the media for the strike in Bujanovac, and that you here in the Assembly know nothing about it and answer to our MPs when we ask you about it. Maybe the prime minister thinks it's a good business custom, because it's not an advertising team, but for us at the DSS it's an unserious and really ugly way to solve problems instead of solving them where they belong. in the government, solving through the media. Therefore, when such a term is used in law, good business practices, he will not help to understand the law well, but will actually be another hole mentioned in the first sentence. I've submitted an amendment to article 4. First of all, his title is the concept of business secrets and terms of protection. You've defined what's a business secret for you. You say, in a business secret, in terms of this law, any information that has or may have a commercial value is still listed as what it is that you consider a business secret, you spread that definition. We thought it was necessary here to enter the word "science and security value" after this commercial, there must be something that would be a business secret just because we think your definition is in the way that you've given here very bad. Why do I say that? I'm going to call on people who deal with this area, and I'm going to call on people who are engaged in this teaching in colleges and who say that a business secret cannot be treated as a matter of decree of any state authority, it must be defined systematically and never involve conflicts of interest. This is particularly expressed in transitional circumstances, when there is frequent interference between the state and private sectors, privatisation and the formation of mixed companies where, on the one hand, there is economic and market logic, and on the other, there is a tradition of official secret and official adoption, of course, under the circumstances, and of official decision-making that is executive, which is treated in a non-democratic and insufficiently transparent manner. That's the problem with the definition you gave. Now you, instead of telling us that it's not the concept that we're proposing what you're up for, in the answer you send to the MPs, you're saying that you don't accept the amendment for the reason that the introduction of scientific and security value as additional cumulative elements, in addition to the commercial value, is essentially narrowing down the business. When you add, something doesn't narrow down, it expands. I know what you're trying to say, you'd like to leave it to everyone to decide what his business secret is, but then it's something big that's for that company a business secret. If you don't add these values, then the fact that our presidents' secretaries are driving by official cars will be an official secret. He can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60427	Five minutes and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral draft of the law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60428	I thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, it seems to me that it has become a rule in this government that when you ask a question or when you write an amendment to one law, the reasons for not accepting the amendment or the answer to the asked question do not have quite any touching points. Therefore, there is no dialogue between the legislative authority and the executive authority. The consequences are evident – never greater poverty, never greater dissuasion, never greater uncertainty in the state. In this amendment, we are talking about medical aids, not medical aids. So we ask you one question, you answer the other. I get the impression you haven't even read this amendment, because if you had read the amendment you wouldn't have responded like this. You are referring to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices which is a very bad law and which was passed just over a year ago, which caused a number of polemics in the professional public. All of this is justified by harmonising domestic legislation with EU rules. If that's what you're saying, then why does it happen that certain laws that haven't yet set foot in real life after a few months are experiencing alterations and additions? All these things, the adoption of these laws, are causing serious and harmful consequences, both for the country and for the citizens of Serbia. It won't be long now, Mr. Minister, and it will become evident that this law is inadmissible. It is not good that the law contains uncontrollable restrictive intentions, that there are corrupt provisions in it, that there are opposing members with other laws. It would have been better if you'd pulled this law out of the process. There's still plenty of time for this law to fit in and adapt to real life. Now, if this law is passed, without respecting these objections, it will once again show all the arrogance and arrogance of such a government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60429	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60430	This amendment of mine applies practically to Article 4(4), where I propose by amendment to supplement it in the following way. Otherwise, paragraph 4 states that the protection of data referred to in point 1 of point 1 of this Article is closer to the specific laws governing the conditions and procedure for the placing on the market of medicinal products and medical products. Now our addition is proposed to add after the word "medicines" or "medical means" to the word "helpful medical resources" and so on. So the rest of the text attitude remains the same. You replied that you did not accept the addition of the word "helpful medical means" and that you say that the drug law and medical means do not know and does not provide for the term "helpful remedies". We did not offer or suggest that "helpful medicines" stand, but "helpful medical means" and, as such, the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices really knows the term and talks about medical aids, so medical aids are, for example, diagnostic means, means that reduce disability, various prosthetics, birth control, tea, etc. So these are the medical aids, but you've turned down our very smart and good amendment. In addition, counterpart Milan Dimitrijevic looked back and gave his general opinion on the law that this assembly passed a year ago. So, it's not good, so you didn't have to look back at that law much, if nothing, on termological grounds. What else do you say in the explanation of this article 4 because of the citizens who listen to us? It speaks in general about what is the subject and what are the terms of protection or the concept of business secrets and conditions of protection. In that explanation where you state why this Article 4 exists in this bill at all, which is true, you say that the spectrum of information that can be considered a business secret is practically not exhausted and can be found in different areas -- businesses, science, technology, business relations at all. So, you're talking about that all those provisions or members that exist in different laws, someone here also mentioned the Company Act and the Law on Trade and the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, so all these individual laws have provisions, or members, that speak of the protection of business secrets from these areas. In my opinion, these protections are quite good, even somewhere much better, not even, but much better defined in these laws than this general law provides any protection. So, you're here saying that the spectrum of this information is inexhaustible and that your desire to cover all areas with this general law. What worries is that this law can simply become a source of various abuses. We fear that different information will be declared a business secret once this law is passed, precisely because it is so general and undefined. Everyone will be able to withdraw, to appeal to the law, to the general law on the protection of business secrets, so that it can become a source of abuse, as are now some members of certain laws sources of abuse. I will remind you of a dispute which, at least to the public, became known in August, which is a dispute between the Institute of Economic Sciences, one of our great trade chains and the Commission for the Protection of Competition. Namely, the Competition Protection Commission has asked the Institute of Economic Sciences to conduct one analysis and study, and the study is officially called "A Study on the Analysis of the Market for Small Trade in Unspecialised Food, Drink and Tobacco Shops". Therefore, this is the name of the study, i.e. the analysis done by the Institute of Economic Sciences, and for the needs of the state authority, i.e. the Commission for Protection against Competition. The problem, at least to the public, became known and formed when the media published certain parts of the analysis and studies. The problem is that at that time, consumers and citizens of Serbia and the public learned practically how much traders earn on every consumer, or on the citizens of Serbia, that we have a large price of all products, or that inflation is large, although when the Institute of Statistics shows that the government is satisfied with how it keeps inflation under control, citizens are not satisfied and it is somehow subjective, i.e. citizens really see that inflation is much greater than what statistics say. So when the parts of that study went public, it really became clear how much traders earn on consumers. At that time, however, a representative of the trade chain rebelled, threatened the Institute, sued the Institute, and there, as a state body, this competition protection commission practically appeared in the protection of the wholesaler, so to speak, i.e. it tells citizens of Serbia and consumers that they do not have the right to know what the price structure of the products they buy is. It was declared, the trade margin was declared a military secret, not just a secret, but a military secret. We Serbian citizens cannot and must not know how many traders we make, while being protected by the state body. I think every consumer has the right to know what the structure of the product is and what the margins are. Eurostat says there are 16% to 18% margins in Serbia. That's not true. From the National Consumers Association of Serbia, they say the trade margins are up to 40%, i.e. that the trader earns 40%, that this is part of the price of the product that goes into his pocket. We are talking about the need for public in many areas, and in those areas that every citizen and how they touch, there is no public, it is the business secret of the trading house and all other commercial houses. That's why we're afraid this law will become a means of abuse like this in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60431	Seven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60432	Ladies and gentlemen, it would be very interesting if, say, the Legislative Committee of this House had a little bit of an analysis of the application of the laws adopted here. I think we would be uncomfortable surprised how much of what we are saying during the adoption of the law in the course of the debate, how much inapplicable laws are passed that remain a dead letter on paper, until again from some European Commission, a dispatcher arrives that it has to do so urgently to adapt to something to be applied, and then we have changes and additions, etc. It is quite certain that if one such analysis were to be carried out that immediately after the adoption of these thesis for the law, because this really looks like the thesis for the law, not one serious law that should regulate also serious matter, it is the protection of business secrets. You can only see in this Article four how many amendments have been submitted. You've adopted some, some haven't, but let me start over. You say, and you adopt it as an amendment to the SRS, which is considered a business secret, so you say - is considered any information that has or may have commercial value. Of course, it's a good thing you adopted this where we suggested that this: "or it may have a commercial value" to delete for precision. But the question arises – do you have anyone there who deals with this legislative activity or how do they allow you to come to parliament with such proposals? Imagine this, it was also within this previous amendment – undiscovered test data or other data whose creation requires significant effort. Isn't that when you read it, it didn't burn your ears? Isn't that some kind of jargon new talk? It's just missing, "so, brother." This is amazing that something like this can be accepted as a dictionary used in lawmaking. In the view of Article 3, why did I say these were just more difficult for the law? Look at attitude three, Minister. You have stated in Section 3 at least five of some laws where you say that the protection of data from Article 2 will be regulated under this law, that law, etc. So, what do we need this law for? But you don't know what this law is for either. You know he's there on some European agenda, you meet those conditions. You don't care that the Cypriots, or that the EU has accomplished the most important task of the agenda, have allowed and allowed the rounding of the Cypriot state, of course with the help of Tadic's regime and those who place signatures on something that no one in Serbia knows what it looks like and what it's written there, but you make your own. You're on a European path, so far as we go, and it's clear we won't go far. A business secret containing information of interest for the Republic of Serbia is considered classified and is protected under the provisions of the law governing the confidentiality of data. Another new law, and we didn't suggest that this attitude be erased, precisely because in our opinion this is excessive and as far as the matter is concerned, as you yourself said, by some other law. But you say no. The amendment cannot be accepted, you are further explaining, given the specificity and importance of the data, which are of interest to the Republic of Serbia, and in order to remove any doubt and possible abuse of this data, it is necessary to clearly specify that all data that are of interest to the Republic of Serbia must be subject to the provisions of the law governing the confidentiality of data. You know, of great importance to the Republic of Serbia is a fact written in Article 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that the capital of the Republic of Serbia is Belgrade. Let us then, because of so much importance, that every law we start – Article 1 reads: the capital of the Republic of Serbia, Belgrade. If you've once regulated something in one law, you don't have to do it in each or every law, or I don't know how much more of it you're undermining and undermining. You don't even apply what's being adopted on your proposal here, mostly without taking any more serious remarks. When some amendments are accepted, they are more changes in technical nature than essential. Whatever law he's leaving here, we're about to have his changes and additions, because you're only doing it to fulfill your so-called. The agenda and the European way. When it comes to attitude 4 and information of particular importance, we have the Information Act of public importance and we have the Trustee for information of public importance. There is no one in the state of Serbia who is more complaining about his position than the trustee. A man keeps going public with information that he can't work. First of all, he had no material conditions, so he had no opportunity to hire people, no offices, etc. When it's somehow rounded up on that side, then there's a problem that whoever he's asking for data, not everyone, but from a large number of those who should give him that information of public importance, they don't. What can he do for them? He can't do anything to them, because they're your law enforcement. The laws are like that, the order works. That's the problem with both this law and many others, not to tell all the laws discussed here. What is the concept of a secret in the state of Serbia anyway? There is no longer a secret in Serbia. You know that well. We don't have a military secret, we don't have a state secret, we don't have an official secret, now you want to protect a business secret. Whose? Some kind of industrial secret? What industry? Where's our industry? This is really amazing. You know, when we read some bill proposals, we think we live somewhere else, where something really works and where people can live normally. In Serbia, unfortunately, that is not possible. He was mentioned here in WikiLeaks, and we mentioned him when we spoke in the principle debate in this law. He's discovered a lot of these business secrets, WikiLeaks. The question is, are these business secrets, which is a question for you, ministers, or for the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Why didn't we know that before? We talked about it, you laughed at us, not you personally, but you said, "You, radicals, you're pounding, you're talking nonsense." Now that Wikiliks confirms, it is clear to everyone that the SNS was created by Boris Tadic, Miskovic and Beka's money. Is that what the WikiLeaks say? Yes, it is. Does it say "Wikiliks" that Tomislav Nikolic bought his diploma and that he is functionally illiterate? (President: Please, on the subject of the agenda, on the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets. I'm talking about the business secrets of some companies, which have obviously come public. The question is that we had such an important and as good a law as this one, would that secret information come out if Miskovic and Beko had funded and financed the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60433	It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Please, MP, register again, as it does not react to the panel and press the big key once. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60434	This is an interesting amendment to Article 4 where we are asking to delete Section 4. I need to read what's written in that attitude. "A business secret containing information of interest for the Republic of Serbia is considered classified and is protected by the provisions of the law governing the confidentiality of data. Now we've asked to delete this, because you see for yourself, here there's a kind of confusion between a few concepts that should be clear. First of all, it is not clear in this law what a business secret is – is that information, is that information where information is used to describe a means, and data as some fact that is actually kept. Then in this position four, you're talking about classified information. In article 6, you're talking about business secrets and the degree of secrecy. You say it's classified. In this general confusion, I'm absolutely certain that no judge who would be in charge of any lawsuit that is possible under this law, if he started to solve it, he wouldn't understand it at all. First of all, you wouldn't know what information is, you wouldn't know what data is, you wouldn't know what it's commercial value. Then when he moves on to Article 4, we have more classified information, so in Article 6, we have a degree of secrecy. You know, we have classified, top secret, European classified, Wikilix confidential. So we have everything possible. Now let me go back to this business secret of interest for the Republic of Serbia. Excuse me, please, if in the very concept of business secrecy there is a commercial value, you have incorrectly written it, you have incorrectly expressed yourself, you have permuted words in that definition, first you have to say that the availability of this information gives some property benefit to an unauthorized user, but well, that's the second topic, then the question here is, how is it possible that a business secret with commercial value is of interest to the Republic of Serbia in terms of regulations on state, military and all other secrets? How could you make that mix? If that mix exists, then you should have solved those laws that were passed a few years ago about keeping secrets. No, and now I'm going to explain to you why you're not and why this isn't right. We have a fact that many public enterprises of republican and local importance have information and data that are relevant to life and work in some area, and it is not good for everyone to know that data. That's a fact. If anyone wants to connect to the phone, the apartment building, he has to ask for terms from Telecom. Is that right? The minimum conditions are prescribed by Telecom according to its standards. If someone wants to join the city’s water network and when urban planning is carried out and when technical documentation is made and when works are carried out and when permission is obtained, everything is checked whether it has been done in accordance with some regulations, and under those regulations and some programs and some data, and there is classified information that is not a business secret but a state secret. Let me remind you of what happened to the Gredile Clipper 20 years ago. A public company that maintains roads had information about what would happen if NATO's pact bombed the Gredile ravine. Set up some attaché to walk here, insert this technical director of a public company, and he said - brothers Americans, enjoy, we have a spare location. Was it a state secret or a business secret? How many state officials who owned information that has the character of state and military secrets? At the end of his state office, he went into commercial business. Well, both governor and former ministers, etc. So you had several ministers from Djindjic's government, these turbo economists, all bankers now. We can also talk about financial and other data that are being protected, allegedly as a business secret. Can't those data be a state secret? Here's an example of why this law won't be able to apply in practice in the way someone said -- well, we have a need to protect it. This law will be used only by some private people, I say intentionally by private individuals, who will have some of their more visible workers or experts bound by a two million-euro contract, so much as it will be a shame or so worth some information, and through that contract to keep under constant surveillance, to record, to be bribed by some people, to try them out whether they're going to sell a purely classic business secret, and it's from the area, first of all, some technology, techniques, industry, etc. These financial and these business secrets, so Miskovic can declare everything. He's got qualified people from state security in retirement who work with him and they said the business secret is where their moles are, in which ministry, in which bank, etc. You won't find out. He has more business secrets than a customs officer. Why do I mention customs? Because I'm sick of hearing what you're saying about Brnik and Jarinj. You're gonna stop the crime? So who made the crime there? You found some reporters this morning to convince the public how... (President: People's Parliament, please on the subject of the agenda. The theme of the agenda is business secret, please excuse me. (President: Well, on the subject of the agenda, therefore, on the business secret. I listen carefully and warn you to return to the subject of the agenda, and everything else is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. ) No, I don't violate the Rules of Procedure, I stick to the subject and give concrete examples...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60435	People's MP, you are required to listen, when I remind you that your speech violates the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, I wouldn't remind you of that provision, which obliges you, if you had followed. I ask you about the agenda theme, with all the arguments that it implies, I listen very carefully, but the moment you completely break every link to the agenda theme, I am obliged to remind you. Five minutes and 30 seconds so far you've taken advantage of the time of the parliamentary group. Please sign in if you want to continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60436	This law allows an MM businessman, with three or four billion wealth, to buy "Luku Belgrade" with an MP friend, through selected MC people, and then... (President: Now, MP, I warn you a second time. If you have not noticed, the topic of the agenda is to search the details of the Business Secret Bill, so please either speak on the agenda or remember that we are obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure in all the provisions. ) Port activity is not just a business activity. Through "Luke Belgrade", Serbia has also taken over some international obligations. Data on her business and her status cannot be unilaterally declared a business secret. This law allows such businessmen to declare it a business secret how they made the ransom. This law allows such people to hide information about their people inside the state structure. This law makes it impossible for the state to protect data from interest in the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because everything is on the market and the market economy has two principles – supply and demand. State officials are also coming through the supply and demand system. Here is a prepared environment for business secrets to be raised to the level of official, state and military secrets, if that's the interest of some people of NN, NM, etc., etc. But this law also allows the public never to know if there are people in this building who are also secret information and business secret NN. No wonder, we can only assume, with a high probability, that there are such, because as soon as MB, MM, then someone is called infallible in the application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60437	Seven minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60438	Mr. Minister, we really need to accept this amendment. Maybe they're not enough arguments. We could talk more, but the business secret, whatever it means, although essentially after the adoption of this law to no one else's end in Serbia, it won't be clear what a business secret is in Serbia, can't be brought in any way in the context of classified information regulated by the Data Sec. It's just impossible. Something that's protected under the Privacy Policy can't be a business secret, it's impossible. That's why what you've brought into the law makes all the fuss and the excess. The confidentiality law is perfectly clear and counterpart Mirovic did not accidentally insist on you and asked you to remove this. Here, in front of me, I have all the terms that have been defined by the Privacy Policy. Here you have information of interest for the Republic of Serbia. There's what's secret information. You have what the document contains. It can't be a business secret. As soon as something is qualified as a secret document, which determines the degree of confidentiality, the state secret, strictly confidential, confidential, or internally, it cannot be a business secret. Business secret is something defined by the internal and general acts of a company, a company or a company. It can't be something the state treats. See what information is of interest to the Republic of Serbia - any information or document available to the public authority, which concerns territorial integrity, sovereignty, the protection of constitutional order, human and minority rights and freedoms, national public security, defence, internal affairs and external affairs. This can't be a business secret. That's why you need to get this out of the law. You will not degrade the protection of business secrets, but you will give meaning. You won't desecrate the Secret Data Protection Act, whatever it's written and whatever it is you've adopted. This is a surplus, this isn't necessary, and this is going to introduce some of the misunderstandings of those who are going to apply to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60439	Two minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60440	Mr. Minister, I really don't understand what you wanted with the introduction of this item 4. On the one hand, there is a debate that is too high, and on the other hand let's see what can be the real intention and what the consequences of this very dangerous attitude in this law are. In the principle debate, I was talking about the law on the protection of the secrecy of information. In some answer, you told me that this law should not now be mixed with this law. However, you can see how this law and its application and how it connects with the protection of business secrets. The key question is, how are these going to be implemented? I assume you've read the Privacy Policy. The key place where data are collected is the National Security Council and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Let's see how an internal document, brought by a business company, containing information of interest for the Republic of Serbia, will be learned from the state authority who is in charge of the Data Securitisation Act, and this body represents the state's interest to learn the information that is of its interest. There are only two options, Mr. Minister. That's why this is so vague and it'll cause problems. The only two options are that every person who is a carrier under this law has the right to declare something a business secret, to deliver all his documents to the National Security Council or to have every person followed. The state has an interest in finding out that information. It is normal for someone to have information regarding the security of the Republic of Serbia. Now the competent authorities, under the Data Securitisation Act, will start to take a great interest in all those who declare business secrets or bring acts to their companies, which concern business secrets. On the one hand, the company delivers an act and can protect it as a business secret. But, BIA, the National Security Council, the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- let's see if there are any data on national security or something that threatens the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, this is a very dangerous attitude. This is where the state directly intervenes through its organs, through the Data Secrecy Act and through this law, in the company's work. What can prevent one BIA operative from going to the company for a government or National Security Council order and saying – give me all your internal acts relating to the business secret, see if there's anything about the interest of the Republic? Watch how wide that is. Everything can be controlled, anything can be searched, anything can be questioned. I believe we've come way past the time to turn into a police state and want to create a market economy where companies will operate. This to the state authorities, to those bodies who like to know everything and feed everything into their archives, to declare everything a business secret, this data confidentiality law gives very broad powers to a series of authorities to declare everything and everything in business secret. You'll even see here for different kinds of human tracking, data acquisitions. It's just amazing. We'd like to hear what's in the interest of getting one of these attitudes into the law. With this little door, we're re-establishing a police state and in some way complete control of the economy. This is a violation of some of the freedoms we've all been through several times through different laws here in the Assembly. So it's very dangerous and it doesn't belong in this law, but above all, it's a question of how the state will get to this data. Once again, there are only two ways: either to have everyone deliver everything they declare a business secret to the National Security Council or to have everyone monitored and based on that state to find out.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60441	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60442	Article 6 speaks of the length of the protection of business secrets and reads: "The protection of business secrets goes on as long as the information that represents that secret is kept confidential." SRS MP Vladan Jeremic suggested that the member be changed and said "Protecting business secrets goes on indefinitely, i.e. while the information that makes it a secret is kept confidential". This looks the same at first glance, but it's essentially different and I'll explain it later. I will now stick to the reasoning given by the Government as a reason to reject this amendment: "Amendment is not accepted because the formulation of the bill is more precise, since the purpose of this provision is that information can enjoy protection as a business secret, as long as its holder takes appropriate measures to keep it secret." I ask the question – what if the holder of a business secret, for reasons of ignorance, does not take appropriate measures to protect it? Does it need his business secret at the same time to become a public secret? By reason of the rejection of this amendment, it is necessary. If so, if the protection of business secrets depends only on its holder, and according to this explanation turns out to be so, then we don't need the law at all. As much as you're able to keep your business secret, it's gonna be a secret. Otherwise, this is a typical example when it is obvious that the amendment is rejected only because it comes from the opposition party. However you turn and turn, by all possible criteria, the solution proposed by Vladan Jeremic is better than the solution proposed by the government. Now I'm going to prove it briefly. According to international standards, the protection of business secrets continues indefinitely, unless the law provides otherwise. You're harmonising our regulations with the Western regulations and I don't see any reason why you're making an exception here. It is obvious that the amendment is proposed by the MP of the SRS. Secondly, apart from being in line with those international standards that you are constantly bombarding us with, the solution proposed by the Government is linguistically and grammatically incorrect, it contains one inadmissible spelling error. Two joint actions, interdependent actions taking place at the same time, the government managed to place two different verbic times in one sentence: present and past times. "Protecting business secrets goes on", the verb "sustains", that is the present time – a presentation, " while the information that represents that secret is kept confidential", "are kept" as I understand it in spelling, that is past time – perfection. The amendment of Vladan Jeremic removes this mistake: "Protects of business secrets continue" – present time, "as the information that makes it secret is kept confidential". The verb is being "guarded," also present-day. It's quite clear. The amendment solution is in agreement with our language and with the spelling. The decision proposed by the government is not. So we have an amendment that obviously improves the text of the law, it's in line with the international standards you're referring to, it's in line with the spelling, and you're refusing that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60443	It was used three minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60444	I'll just take a minute. One aspect is why the amendment should be accepted, which was spoken of by my colleague Dusan Maric, while the other is an aspect of economic or commercial nature. The documentation called for by the Proposer – the Paris Convention, etc., public and scientific debates relating to business secrets insist precisely on the fact that these data are defined, or kept permanently, and that this sustainability ceases the moment when the holder or holder of a business secret decides to make it different. I'm going to ask a simple question to the government's representatives. Unfortunately, Mr. Obradovic is not here. I'm interested in when the recipe for making Coke will be published. Coca-Cola has given us several billion, and I am sorry and sick of calling for American Coca-Cola, because Americans are taking KIM from us, but we are talking about sophisticated business practice for Serbia's sophisticated business practice, unfortunately, in which the United States, unfortunately, has gone the farthest. They've gone farthest, but they're also the biggest victim of business and industrial espionage. That's nice to meet you. The victims are Chinese and Russian industrial spies and that's good. I cite this as an example in favour of the amendment my colleague Vladan Jeremic has proposed. The American Coca-Cola has given several billion dollars to transfer the formula to a safe in Atlanta. The entire American public wondered why they gave it, because it would be inconceivable business losses, if that was the case. They'll keep it a permanent while there's a Coke to keep it a business secret. Now if, in the spirit of sophisticated American industrial espionage and business secrecy techniques, Serbia is passing one law. I don't know why a business secret shouldn't be kept permanently. We didn't deny the right to publish a business secret or make it public, however you want to, I don't know how to do it, it doesn't matter. It must be a lasting character until the moment that the holder or holder of that business secret publishes something different. You had no reason not to accept this amendment. And this once again confirmed that the SRS, what you tried to do, understood better than you, and it seems to me that a hundred times better laws would be written if we were able to deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60445	Three minutes spent from the time of the representatives of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. The Government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60446	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Minister, it's a good thing you're back, because nothing spectacular will Serbia get by accepting this amendment, but you saw because the government has said in an explanation for acceptance - for the reasons set out in the amendment's explanation, and on behalf of the SRS, I asked that the law be clear and precise, as well as all fellow Serbian radicals, and that's why this is good. Because of the public and the illustration of how much it will mean in practice, although this law will be completely inapplicable, here's to show that you've had this good hearing here. Let me give you some examples, and let me read what this attitude 2 refers to. This law will not be fully applicable, because by calling for both comparative practice and areas that regulate the functioning of companies, business secrets, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We know that this is impossible in Serbia, because otherwise, regardless of what the government says differently to us as members of the Defence and Security Committee and how we have chapters that are defined, I cannot talk about these specific cases, regulated by the state secret and keeping that secret to all of us who are members of the board. These are all chapters dealing with industrial and other espionage, conducted by foreign agents in the country of Serbia. So it's not some special forces from some companies trained agents, but it's what the CIA, MI-6 and others do what they want to do here, and yet they do it in agreement with Tadic and his regime. With all these foreign intelligence services, which are in the function of this and which are under the patronate and co-operation in the area of security and this kind of spying, the state of Serbia has regular signed bilateral agreements, i.e. co-operation agreements. This second attitude refers to the disclosure of information and to the disclosure of business secrets to other persons and since we wanted to, that is to show you the senselessness of individual members, so to be precise, that my amendment has foreseen and you have accepted it to delete the words "without the express or silent consent of the holder", therefore, to reveal the business secret if it is in accordance with the law or in a way that is not contrary to good business practices. Essad, this was really too much, you saw "without the express or silent consent of the holder" because someone can do it on purpose, someone can do it out of spite, and someone can do it thinking that by revealing this business secret they're doing according to the law because it's not just about this law, so that's what a colleague of Radeta was saying, and Mr. Stevanović as our authorised representative, Mr. Krasic, they talked a lot about it and the official, and the state and business secrets are constitutional categories, and so I say, when we have that information about these agents and what they're doing and how they destroy Serbia're primarily working to break down the state and take away one part of it, then we have in mind and that it's the constitutional category. Now, we have one of the latest examples. The latest example of telling a business secret that he, under the name of the businessman, said he is face-to-face on the red Interpol warrant, is the king of the tobacco mafia Stanko Subotic Cana, called the Frog. He said a few days ago that by giving away that business secret, he lost a good business reputation in the world, so on the territory where he operates his criminal activities. You know, Mr. Minister, that he was doing it in Serbia, Montenegro, etc. And now he said, I'm gonna say this, even though I'm losing my business reputation, but I have a business secret to share. What is this business secret? He, in effect, informed through a video link, and you, as a minister in the government, could also see the entire Serbian public having a business arrangement with Boris Tadic. It consists of Boris Tadic telling him in 2007 that he should forward Ruzica Djindjic, wife of Zoran Djindjic, a certain amount of money, that as Subotic said, funds and camps and children without parents and sports halls. Since Tadic did so through Sutanovac, who was the liaison officer in the business deal, asked in cash, Subotic said, it was a big deal and big money, and I couldn't do it at once, so I had to do a few tranches. And then he said, on January 19th, he gave that amount... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60447	People's MPs, please discuss the subject of the agenda, if whatever you read has nothing to do with the subject of the agenda and the law whose amendment to the search. So I'm warning you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60448	Mrs. Comic, you know I'm your longtime parliamentary colleague, just like you. You don't do business, I'm telling you that a business man... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60449	People's MPs, I warned you, the topic of the agenda is the search in detail of the proposal for a law on business secrecy. The moment that any member of the Parliament is enraged by a discussion completely strays from the subject and cannot go back to a single word on the subject of the agenda. I have a business obligation to remind you to stick to the agenda topic otherwise if you do not want to respect the Rules of Procedure, then I have other obligations. You want to go on, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60450	Mrs. Komic, you know that I always speak very well and concentratedly and that there is no situation, at least you've known me for so many years, that I can't get back to something rhetorically. You know, if that's our parliamentary agreement, what you're insisting on right now, of course I can at any moment, that's no problem. So there's no confusion, that me or any of the radicals get carried away, there's no thing that we can't, after all you know and who our political teacher Vojislav Seselj is, any time we get back on the subject, and that's clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60451	I understand, but I'm asking you on the agenda, just a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60452	Now, Mr. Minister, this is a second example of business secrets and importance, and let's say this amendment that you have accepted to illustrate something that is of great interest to citizens of the city where I live, it is Kragujevac and citizens of the entire Republic of Serbia, and it is the automotive industry. So, we had the situation, first of all, of writing the press and the accusations, and no one has yet responded by the state authorities, and neither from Fiat, that even before Fiat was appointed what kind of car model would be produced in Kragujevac, there were some speculations as to who was modeling the question...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60453	People's MPs, I ask you about the subject of the agenda, as much as you'd like to know what's going on in the papers, what's going on in other countries, and as interesting as any rumors, plots and gossips are going on in the papers, it has nothing to do with the subject of the agenda and the amendment that has been adopted and become an integral part of the bill. Now, last time I warn you, after you refuse to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will be forced to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which I am bound to, but I don't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60454	But, well, please tell me, given that some colleagues have talked earlier about the case of American Coca-Cola, because it's a more significant example than what I'm trying to point out.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60455	National MPs, when the chairman reminds you that you have strayed from the agenda theme, then listen and return to the agenda theme, do not argue, because there is nothing to argue about, would not be interrupted to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60456	Mrs. Komic, I will end this discussion with this because I am not able to be a very important and strategic problem of state secret, i.e. secret, business secrets...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60457	People's MPs, we're not talking about a state secret. We're not even talking about official secrets, we're talking business secrets, and I need to remind you that we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60458	Okay, and do you see the meaning of my amendment? In another view, the minister accepted it, I ask after my statement of the minister to take the word, because on behalf of the SRS I insisted, Mrs Comic, that the words "delivery, use, that is, the disclosure of information that represents the business secret of other persons is allowed and without the express or tacit consent of the holder if it is carried out in accordance with the law, or in a way that is not contrary to good business practices", and I want on one such case which is not contrary to good business practices, to tell you, you do not allow me to do so. If that's the case and if the word is free and what is the essence of my amendment is forbidden, you say so, then I won't speak. But I think that I have the right to do so both as a folk MP and as someone responsible for what's happening in every segment of our society, so according to the fact that what was discovered as the alleged business secret company "Fiat" is actually not a business secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60459	People's MPs, you have the right to a free word and you have an obligation...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60460	I've finished my presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60461	Thank you. So you have the right to give a total of five plus three minutes as much as you have used from the time of the parliamentary group free of charge to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly means that you do not make fun of the procedure, it means that you do not mock the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which oblige us all and implies compliance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which clearly states that the MP is obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda, and that the Chair is, if and after the warning of the MP who knowingly, knowingly, deliberately and very clearly violates the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to give the measures of the notice. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60462	I'm advertising Article 27. I am asking the Rules of Procedure and I am now asking that the Assembly declare in the day of voting that you have injured the Rules of Procedure a little earlier in the course of my presentation when you have used one word that is not appropriate to the function of the chairman, namely, you have told me by warning me that I have deviated from what the subject of the agenda is, you have used the term which is offensive to me, you can look at the stenographic notes, you have used and have responded to the SRS MPs' expression that I – I have strayed from the subject of the agenda. So, this is inappropriate for a chairperson, it is a disgrace and a shame for the most legislative body, and I ask that the Assembly in the voting day declare that you have severely injured the Rules of Procedure by sending such a term to fellow Members of the People's Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60463	National MPs, except that the argument is not in accordance with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and thus you violate the member you are calling for to receive the word, I would not have used that term if that had not happened. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157... Parliamentwoman Natasa Jovanovic throws it away and thus violates the Rules of Procedure, you clearly said that you wanted the Assembly to declare itself and the Assembly would plead, and now I have to warn you last time that if you want a good debate to end with me giving you measures of caution, one after the other I am at your disposal. So on the basis of Article 157(6), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Science and Technological Development submitted an amendment to Article 7. At its meeting of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. Does he still want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 8. The bill and then after Article 8 and Article 11 show that the authors of the bill, I don't mean Mr. Obradovic, because I don't believe he wrote this, completely legally ignorant. Here's the thing. Article 8 of point 4 of Article 2 has defined that one of the types of illegal acquisition of use and disclosure of information which is a business secret is contrary to good business practices, including fraud. Article 11 states that the legal protection prescribed by this proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets, a lawsuit in a litigation procedure, and then Article 11, states what can be required, among other things, to be requested, Mr. Minister, by way of a ruling, to terminate the working relationship for a person who reveals a business secret, but to return to it a little later. What is the basic meaning of my amendment is to convince you of something that I wouldn't have to convince you that the government has shown a slightly higher degree of legal literacy, but since it isn't, I'm going to have to convince you this way. So, the fraud, Mr. Minister, is a criminal offence and it is a criminal offence prescribed by the criminal code of the Republic of Serbia. In the bill, however, you define fraud as a civil-legal delinquent, which will be sanctioned by a lawsuit in litigation proceedings. What does that mean? This means that the court, in order to pass a claim against fraud, will have to proceed in a litigation procedure to prove the existence of fraud. It is a nonsensence of unprecedented proportions, that the existence of a crime, and therefore criminal responsibility proves not in criminal proceedings, but in litigation. What's the explanation for such an incredible move? In an explanation that we received from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the amendment is not accepted because Article 8 paragraph 2 of the Law proposal states that fraud is one of the actions considered to be contrary to business practices in the sense of the bill. The fact that it is a fraud, which you yourself have found, against a legal action being treated and by a criminal code, does not constitute a reason why it cannot be cited as an example of a course contrary to good business practices. Everyone here writes a double-crossed shop, and it should – a double-crossing shop, is also contrary to good business practices. Yes, Mr. Minister, and rape is contrary to good business practices and stealing is contrary to good business practices, and murder is contrary to good business practices, and are we now going to sanction all these crimes in litigation proceedings? I don't know if it occurred to anyone. If the bill of law remains a solution, it means that by applying the law on litigation, the court will prove the existence of fraud. Tomorrow, it will mean that all crimes that are otherwise prescribed as criminal offences will be found in a litigation procedure. It may occur to someone that criminal acts will also determine in administrative proceedings, in a misdemeanor procedure, in an out-of-party procedure, and this will cause complete chaos in the otherwise chaotic legal system of the Republic of Serbia. So, the purpose of our amendment is, Mr. Minister, to tell you that it is not disputed that fraud is a form of revealing business secrets, but its sanctioning cannot be done in litigation, but in criminal proceedings. It is also not disputed that someone who has suffered material or immaterial damage through a misdemeanour can seek compensation and damage in a litigation process, but before it is done. The criminal proceedings must prove that a fraud has been committed and it must be determined who is responsible for this crime. How do you think the court finds compensation for fraud without the criminal act proving the existence of a crime? I think every law student knows there's a complete distinction between civil justice and criminal justice. Criminal justice deals with the identification of criminal offences and persons responsible for the execution of these crimes. The civil justice system deals with, among other things, as is the case here with the determination of the amount of material or immaterial damage to the cause of this damage. This will be a unique case in Serbia, and perhaps wider, that one crime is not treated in criminal proceedings, but is treated in litigation. The litigation procedure, simply by its provisions, in its internal philosophy and logic, is not similar to establishing a criminal offence in the litigation process and determining criminal responsibility. It is simply amazing that such a solution contains the bill under discussion at the same session that we discussed the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law of Parse Procedure. The MPs of the SRS have indeed made a real effort to show you through their amendments how badly the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Proposal of the Law on Criminal Procedure are, and we felt it was clear that what is being treated and regulated by criminal proceedings cannot be subject to litigation. Then you surprise us as much as you do not know the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so you prescribe one crime as a violation of good business practices. Well, it is, but every crime is a violation of good business practices. There are no criminal acts that do not constitute a violation of good business practices that are meant to be, but these crimes and the responsibility for the execution of these crimes cannot be determined in a litigation process but can be determined in a criminal procedure, and when the criminal proceedings are concluded, when it is determined that a criminal act of fraud has been committed, when it is determined who is responsible for it, then whoever has suffered the damage of a material or immaterial resulting from the execution of that crime, only then can the right which you gave to Article 11. The draft law, which is to appeal to the competent judicial court, so that it determines the amount of the damage to be compensated. If you do not accept the amendment to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, especially in this process, it will indeed be brought into one chaotic state and tomorrow there will really be no obstacle to the fact that due to this precedent that you are introducing this bill, all other crimes are being determined tomorrow in a litigation procedure or any other non-criminal procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60465	Five minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60466	Well, apart from this huge fundamental flaw you've heard, there's an even bigger one that simply doesn't allow this kind of a formula of Article 8. Why? Well, the entire system of security of business secrets is about material responsibility for the case of a business secret. So, first of all, it's about property responsibility. I do not understand at all how you were able in Article 8(1) to call for unfair competition and in attitude 2 to good business practices. These two things can't be the matter of this law. You create presunctions – it's considered to be understood. You've listed six areas, six shops, to skip this fourth you've heard, but I don't understand why this sixth incrimination is. At this sixth point in point 2, you're talking about incrimination. I heard the third person's information, and now I have to assume that that third person was bound to keep a business secret or it could have been assumed that he was keeping a business secret. In attitude 1, you talk about the consequences, and the whole formulation of both attitudes refers to the first person of one person, or person, to the individual as the performer of an action. The only thing that can help in some way is in attitude 1. Where it is said – in a way contrary to the law, and there is already some connection to business offences where only a legal person is responsible. We just wanted to distract you, but basically Article 8 is inapplicable. There's no judge who's gonna apply this. I don't know if anyone can understand what's written. Is this clear? What a possibility of abuse, not telling you. It's like a jackna-- that's where a man told me. This is 100% written by Ridlmeyer, the famous expert witness or Obershal. Obershal wrote in his account – I was in Belgrade, I met a student, he told me that his teacher had heard from another student in his lecture. That's what the expert witness wrote. Now you're supposed to stick to it -- a guy named Pera told me that Dick was at Mike's, so we saw how it was made? This is where you lose the idea of a business secret. I need to distract you. I understand that Victoria Group holds as a business secret founding capital, but it's the real founding capital, not the one at the Business Registers Agency. I can understand that, but I can call Shabic and everyone else, and the prosecutor, with a call to Article 3 where I have reasonable suspicion that this is a crime, that this business secret must not be kept. Something's wrong when something's made in one copy. You know that legacy solution in one copy, and it's now an all-powerful secret. Why do you need these regulations about secrets like this? Article 8, I'm telling you, no judge will be able to apply, and these experts on industrial espionage, etc., do not even touch this regulation. What you wrote doesn't touch them. For what? Well, it's perfectly normal for a company to follow what competition does. It's perfectly normal for a company to monitor where competition sells products. It's perfectly normal to follow the competition whether it gives bonuses, whether it gives this, whether it gives what payment deadlines are, if the advance pays what discounts are, etc. It's perfectly normal. It can't be stopped, as no one can stop some of the delte cashiers from taking, getting drunk and finding out all the information that's important to another firm. Where's that? He's not anywhere. In the principle debate, I was talking about a man who couldn't win a single tender for a year. Why? Because someone put a device in his computer and the competition knew it before. How are you going to put this in a business secret? This is just a means of pressure on the call managers. It's these yuppies, because you have them now and those in the losing variants buy cars and only drive cars around Belgrade on Sundays, to keep them faithful because they can go away for more money and take away all the secrets they can, but that's not really a problem. Why? Everything is known in Serbia and business secrets are known and recipes are known. The question is, does a man show interest in asking a little questions? Anyone who is active in questioning, all business secrets have to know, it's only a matter of how many days. If he can't buy money, he can condition himself with his wife, his children, his mother-in-law, his girlfriend, and so on. You know when a Deputy Prime Minister appointed the Prime Minister UboPOK. He was just giving him information on where the government members are going to get laid. You think that's funny?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60467	People's MP, please discuss the subject of the agenda. It can hardly be a business secret, at least not for the legal industry. Please respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I listen very carefully to all MPs, and I very carefully remind the MPs that they are obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda. Six minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60468	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'm quite certain now that you haven't read these amendments. I don't blame you for that, because you would not blame this amendment on Article 9 for the reasons of this amendment, as an amendment to Article 4. So I may have been in a position to explain, when I defended this amendment to Article 4. I was vague. I'll try a simpler language to explain what the problem is. We didn't speak in the amendment on auxiliary medications. Otherwise, when we talk about this concept, in that Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, the medical aids were not deliberately introduced into this law, in order to create a confusion and to do what is done on the market with the aids. So, you don't need to be very smart, but to see commercial television ads, see all kinds of magazines, advertise auxiliary medications, where there's no control or anything that controls the correctness of those funds. Let's get back to the subject of this amendment. So, you're in the explanation, I'm reading the explanation on Article 4, you wrote, you called for Article 172, paragraph 3. The drug law and medical means, not to talk about auxiliary medications. Careful reading of Article 172 shows that there are aids, general medical means and that aids are being discussed, and for your information, along with general medical resources, aids, there are also diagnostic medical means, active inplated medical means, etc. So many things that law regulates. One more thing, Mr. Minister, as far as this law is concerned, referring to the previous law, the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, I'm going to give you an example. You were, you went out in principle debate, what's the problem? If you read Article 230. The Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices will see one provision, says – provisions. The 31st and 32nd laws on medicinal products based in the Republic of Serbia begin to apply from the date of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. Here is a business secret from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that insists on hiding from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia when it enters the EU, or just perhaps it is the business secret of the Republic of Serbia. Now I understand, I completely understand why the government is hiding, a business secret. Now, whether it's going to be in the first half of this century or in the second half, that's what we're going to see. Furthermore, Article 232 speaks of being a member of 101. The drug and medical law has been applied since 1 January 2012, and the application of this business secret law is seven days after the adoption of the Council of the Republic of Serbia. What do I mean? The non-compliance of the law, the non-cooperation between sectors, the lack of co-operation in the ministries, and then the product is one senseless law that has an emtritus of restrictive, uncontrollable provisions, em has corrupt provisions and all these things have been spoken of by colleagues. The best thing to do is to pull this law out of the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60469	It was used two minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60470	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, we have now received information that the Committee on Science and Technological Development has responded to this Article 14 and it is certainly better to have responded than to remain in this text as proposed in the bill. It is good that the Committee has recognised the problem that our parliamentary group has also identified in our amendment, which is that the opportunities are too wide and the country has engaged too widely in protecting business secrets, using a variety of procedural means, in this case it is the security of evidence. Of course, we wanted to remove our amendment completely from the legal system and from this law the question of security of evidence. The Committee responded with the amendment that it only seems to be in emergency, so in fact declaring the possibility that the state, especially as stated here in paragraph 2. – performs a search of premises, vehicles, books, documents, databases, confiscation of cases without prior notice and hearings can only be done in urgent and exceptional cases, declaring, to say, the security of evidence as one exceptional measure. Generally speaking, when you look at the way the state engaged in protecting business secrets, you see that many benefits and many opportunities are provided to business secret holders. We can come up with a series of problems. A few of my colleagues talked about it. Simply, in a vague way, they point to a motive for why this law seemed to be the case. Let's say, a plea for breach of a business secret referred to in Article 11. On the one hand, we have an unlimited possibility of a business secret bearer, in which case it's meant to be business companies, to declare everything they think is important to them for a business secret. On the other hand, that protection goes so far that Article 11 of point 3 says that compensation for damages, including real damage and loss of profit, if the injury was done on purpose, I don't see how a business secret can be handed down differently but on purpose, the prosecutor may, instead of compensation for property damage, require compensation for a triple amount of the usual fee. Mr. Minister, here you're giving someone the opportunity to declare whatever they want with a business secret, to accidentally get out of the possession of those who are legally obliged to keep a business secret and then to charge themselves fat, using state instruments. Very dangerous provisions and it's just not clear why the state has put so much into protecting business secret holders. That's what we talked about in the debate. On the other hand, you made it possible for those legal entities and companies, all those legally binding, to put everything alive as a business secret and even data that are of interest to the Republic of Serbia and thus involve the state of Serbia and its national security authorities in the whole chaos. I don't think you've absolutely worked out some very sensitive things that concern business, but also the dignity and freedom on the market, allowing government authorities on one side to get involved in their work, and on the other hand, giving someone the opportunity to charge themselves fat from natural persons. I think that, with all these arguments that we've made, you haven't convinced our political group that this law is good, we think that this law is extremely bad, that it's dangerous in some parts and that it will, above all, create all those organs that need to apply it, serious problems with interpretation. I expect this law to come here very quickly, to carry out its corrections, or the Legislative Committee will be forced to give authentic interpretations, minors, to each of these members. Once again, as regards Article 14, you have partially improved this solution that you have in mind 14, but the general impression is that you have worked very hard to protect the business secrets of everyone and everything, using all state instruments and resources of the state. There's no need for that, this isn't something the state's interest, this is the interest of private companies, and they need to look for ways to protect themselves and how they're going to keep what they think is important to their business.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60471	Two minutes and 45 seconds used from the time of MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60472	How much time do we have, please? (President: Parliament time is 31 minutes. Thank you. Our amendment to Article 14 refers to paragraph 1 where we asked for this rhubarb formula to change and that's done. Of course, we do not now think that the ministry, or government, has done something that is epochal, because they have accepted this amendment, and I repeat again, once you accept some fundamental amendment, then we will say that you respect the views of the opposition MPs. Here in article 14, it said that at the request of a person who makes it likely to cause damage, and we replaced it with the words "provide relevant evidence that there may be damage", because this - makes it possible for damage to occur, is something that I don't think anyone lives can explain what it means and it's completely unclear how someone could translate this kind of hornaday, obviously, to do and to put it into the law. When we agreed on this amendment, and we had one idea that we might be looking to delete this whole article 14 and it's a good thing that such an amendment was submitted and it would be best, in fact, if you had deleted this article. I'll say what we're thinking about, analyzing a few parts of this article. Of course, we've cleared this up in this first position, and you've accepted that amendment. The article refers to the security of evidence, it is certainly important to emphasise. In the second point, you say - by providing evidence in terms of the position of the 1st member is considered a search of premises, vehicles, books, documents, databases, confiscation of cases, blocking of bank accounts, confiscation of money, etc. We can explain any illogicality in this or any other law to examples of practice and say why it is not good. It is completely incomprehensible what "book search" means, unless you may have thought about what is now current, I assume you know the ministers, to follow, in The Hague tribunal against the president of the SRS, Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, conducts serial proceedings for contempt of the court. For what? Because they don't like the titles of his books. (President: Please, on the subject of the agenda. If you want examples, then I ask you that in the context of the topic that we are related to in the search of particulars, these examples, by making it clear to everyone this law is not in force. Please, as many arguments as you can and want, but within the agenda theme. ) Publishing is a business secret. It's really something you need to talk about here. I'm talking SRS publishing as a case. I don't see what's going on here. Is it disputed that the books of Vojislav Seselj, as at the time of the Inquisition... (President: I now warn you, the topic of the agenda is clear, that there can be no clearer, as is the violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which oblige you to speak clearly on the subject of the agenda, that it cannot be clearer. Please, either the subject of the agenda, or I'm forced to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that bind me, when someone insists on not talking about the subject of the agenda. Here you go. ) This is about providing evidence in terms of the position of this member and talking about documents. Coli Krasic mentioned some documents earlier, and it would be really interesting, because this is done on a request made by a person who is likely to be in harm's way because of unauthorized procurement, using a business secret by another person. A colleague Krasic spoke of a solution that was made in one copy. It's something that's amazing and unrecorded in the legal practice of the globe. Only one court in the world, the Fourth Municipal Court, in its own time, made a single solution to inherit Zoran Djindjic's assets.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60473	Please, on the subject of the agenda. The last one is a warning. After this, I'm obliged to give you warning measures. Please, do you want to continue? No, I don't. ) (Zoran Krasic from the site: You do not let them talk. ) Please do not throw away or mock the procedure you call upon when you feel that you are violating something you consider to be of your own interest. Here I apply the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly equally to all MPs and all provisions equally for all. It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, submitted an amendment to Article 14. At its meeting of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. The Legislative Committee has not spoken. The amendment will be declared in the voting day. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic. Excuse me, MP, the electronic panel is not responding. Please reapply to the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60474	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the essence of this law is to protect small companies, which do not have enough financial resources in relation to large multinational companies to run some expensive disputes, and which are much more often the subject of a breach of business secrets than large multinational companies. With that in mind, it seems to us that this institute that's scheduled, which refers to the means of security that the prosecutor has to provide, in order to enter into the process of proving that a business secret has been injured. It's very dangerous on the one hand, because it destimulates small companies, those that are financially weak, to enter into this process of proof. On the other hand, it's unnecessary, because we have a law on a litigation procedure in which damage can be compensated, if it's proven that there were no injuries to business secrets. In the law itself, another institute was incorporated into Article 13, that the court determines the credibility of damages. It's quite enough to possibly protect the defendant from chicing and some lawsuits that are inappropriate. The court, I believe, is capable of assessing whether there's been any damage or not. On the other hand, we have a technical problem. How will the court determine how much security funds are needed in a court-ordered procedure? Will that be the amount proposed by the defendant, or will the court voluntarily, on the basis of some personal assessment, determine how much of the financial resources the defendant needs to separate in order to continue the trial? It seems to us that this institute is completely undeveloped in law, as I said it is excessive and important to affect the quality of the law itself and the applicability of this law at all. It seems to us that, as I said, a large number of small companies, those that need first and foremost to protect this law, our companies that can't, thanks to this institute, will come up with some kind of judicial process, dissipate the whole law and put us in a position that we're going to have to pass a new law as soon as possible, or that we have amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60475	It's been used 50 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60476	Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask you to pay some attention to this article on the 16th and this amendment. I'm not a lawyer, but I was dealing with this from some legal point of view, as much as my options gave me for both law and possibility, so I'd ask you, as a man who's not a lawyer, to pay attention to the senselessness in Article 16 and in 15, which we tried to change by amendment, or to correct. What's absurd? Absurd is what amendments those who have dealt with this law have adopted, and one very important and essential, perhaps the most important amendment that has been submitted, have refused to accept. Something that results in legal uncertainty, and legal violence can be freely said. In this procedure they must have two sides, but both sides must be protected from the law equally. This, as it is written here, does not provide the equal status of those who will eventually be in the process of launching a particular lawsuit, the litigation, as the lawyers call it. Now, at the request of the person charged for breach of a business secret or a procedure for determining a temporary measure, or for the security of evidence, the court may impose a burden on the prosecutor to determine the appropriate amount as a means of security in the event of non-compliance. What were we looking for? The SRS requests that the court determine a certain amount of money as a means of security, beware of ministers, in the event of non-compliance with the requirements. So, the court can't – it can, and it doesn't have to provide a cash amount as a means of security, the court has to provide something as a means of security in case of lack of foundation. So, perhaps the lawsuits were filed unfounded and the one against whom they were filed must be protected in this procedure. That's why this amendment has to be accepted. That's one thing. The second thing, i.e. the continuation of the amendment, is this: we asked for a new position to be added, that security funds should also be determined in the event of non-compliance with the deadline provided for in Article 15(1). I'd like to ask you now to pay attention to this article 15. Now, as this goes, temporary measures under Article 13 of this Act and the security of evidence provided for in Article 14 of this Act may be sought prior to filing a complaint for breach of a business secret, provided that the action is brought within 30 days of the date of the adoption of the solution, etc. Tell me, please, if you don't accept this cash security, what provides that condition? How can you condition something, as you say, aposteur? So, I'll press charges on condition that in a month, I'll tell security on the condition that you press charges after that in a month. What if he doesn't press charges? Then what? You're gonna crumb me in court for no reason, or I don't know how, you're not gonna press charges and nobody. That's not how it works. This amendment must be accepted. Whatever they're telling you isn't true. My fellow lawyers will talk about it better, but from a legal point of view. This is just proof, you can't write a law like this, a law that deals with serious matter. Minister, you're the government, you run this country. What ambience do they create for us and create laws like this? We wouldn't be dealing with these amendments if one of us hadn't come under the influence of a law like this tomorrow. You will tomorrow be the victim of this unwritten thing. This isn't the law, this is the definition of nothing. You have to accept this. You have to accept this amendment to make sense of the law. For hiducia, Minister, and for violence, in whichever case you want, a litigation, a criminal, or I don't know what kind of law you don't need. If you're already writing it, let it make sense and protect both sides, which will eventually be in this process. Thank you. My fellow lawyers will talk more about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60477	Four minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group representatives were used, so the time of representatives was used. The time available to the parliamentary group is 22 minutes. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60478	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 15 and Article 16. The bill's proposals are indeed the best evidence to which this bill was written in haste, rather sloppyly and without a clear idea of what it wants to achieve. My colleague Stevanović, although not a lawyer, has indeed shown in a very convincing way all the nonsense of Article 15 and Article 16 in the formulation in which we are proposed. Mr. Minister, you're not a lawyer, but you're an educated man, you know the elemental logic, so by definition, the condition is something that precedes an action, and it doesn't follow. In order for me to do something earlier, something must happen. See what you wrote in article 15. - the provisional measures referred to in Article 13 of this Act and the security of evidence provided for in Article 14 of this Act may also be sought prior to filing an application for breach of a business secret, provided that the action is brought within a future period of 30 days from the date of the adoption of a solution to determine the provisional measure, i.e. a solution to determine the security of evidence. A man doesn't have to be a lawyer or a good lawyer to ask a basic question - what if he who has asked for a provisional measure does not press charges within 30 days? The bill states that nothing will happen. So what kind of condition is that? A condition that doesn't oblige anyone is not a condition, then it's a flat-rate finding, that's what the order is for, to put something in the bill. What guarantee does the court have from the future applicant that this lawsuit will indeed be filed if there is no means of security? That means that now anyone can, under a company of breach of business secrets, ask the court to give provisional measures and provide evidence without ever pressing charges for a breach of business secrets. In fact, this abuses the rights given by this bill, and we return to what we said about the amendment to Article 8. Someone who took part in writing the bill really doesn't know the basic norms of procedural law, neither criminal nor litigation, nor the basic material-civil rights, because he obviously doesn't know what the condition is. So, the condition is some future uncertain fact or circumstance. There's no guarantee that whoever's asking for provisional measures will press charges within 30 days. Then the question arises – what is the purpose of the regulation of Articles 15 and 16 and the entire matter of business secrets, its legal protection? It completely loses its meaning to this completely illogical, not to use any more difficult word, the formulations of the bill. What business secret in Serbia will be protected by the solutions prescribed by Articles 15 and 16? They're not going anywhere. Thus, the purpose of protecting business secrets and one’s business and material interests is completely lost. I'm not talking about you prescribing criminal provisions here. In article 19, you have prescribed criminal provisions, and the word "punishment" indicates that it is a matter of protection in criminal proceedings. However, when you read the previous members of the bill, it is clear that you are not referring to criminal proceedings, but to civil and legal protection in the litigation process. When all of this is collected and taken away, the question really arises how does the business secret in the Republic of Serbia protect itself? Mr. Minister, this bill does not protect itself in any way. Absolutely won't be protected business secret. This law will be very easy to play in practice, to get rid of its opposite and this bill, if this remains this way, not that it will not achieve the goal and goal it was meant to achieve, but in practice, it will cause incomprehensible consequences, adverse consequences, primarily by entities who want to keep their business secrets and then by court. The decision referred to in Article 15 opens the possibility for courts to be engulfed with proposals to provide evidence and to give provisional measures, and never to provide evidence of provisional measures to obtain their epilogue in court proceedings, never to file a lawsuit and never to determine whether there has really been a breach of someone's business secrets. Now anyone in Serbia can seek evidence security, express temporary measures, formally under the law will be required to press charges within 30 days, but nothing bad will happen to him if he does not meet the condition. Well, what kind of condition is that? A condition not binding is not a condition. It's completely pointless that this formulation is in the bill. If you really want to essentially fix the bill, accept Mr. Dragan Stevanovic's amendment, the amendment is good, it affects the essence of what you wanted to achieve through the bill. Otherwise, the whole bill, as it is very short, has only 20 members, will really not achieve any purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60479	Five minutes and 50 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60480	Mr. Minister, when you look at these solutions, you are consistent with your concept, but it's deeply wrong. Now let me explain. This is a way of harassing the company. You gave Em a broad opportunity to define a business secret, you gave them the opportunity to treat breaking a business secret as a violation of good business practices in the broadest possible sense, and then you put all possible means of security into the position of the holder of business secrets. Mr. Minister, I don't understand why they're protecting themselves so much. It's not a business secret that's more important than a state secret. In the Privacy Policy, you don't have this kind of protection to keep a business secret. Who put pressure on you to put the entire state in office of the company? What colleagues have said, someone may be seeking a temporary measure in violation of good business practices, let's say that the case was taken away by a breach of business secrets. Look at that kind of pressure between different companies. One person changed the company, went to another company, might have given some information that might have allowed someone to produce something in the manufacturing process and the one who lost the one, for example, a quality fit, believes that a product in a competitive company was caused by good business practices. He will immediately seek a temporary measure, the court will betray it, he does not have to press charges, and temporarily resolve the dispute, force the other to pay him something. Mr. Minister, this is very dangerous. You put a lot of money on companies. The state is engaged incredibly widely. Give us the possibility of various harassments. He can press charges, security funds are finished, he doesn't have to answer unless he succeeds. What colleagues have suggested with the amendment, there must be some kind of sanctions. The court has to burden the one who's pressing charges. What if he went unfounded, what if he was harassing the other guy against whom he filed the lawsuit? He can temporarily settle the dispute because he has no sanctions unless he presses charges. It's enough to take that item away from him and then those two companies are going to enter into a relationship with each other and make a deal. It is simply amazing how this procedural authority is given to someone, especially if a provision is put in place to make it possible to do so because of good business practices. Breaking good business practices, that's so wide, Mr. Minister. All the living will be called upon to produce a product by giving away business secrets, because good business practices have been violated and the court will ask the competing company to take it away. I ask you to seriously consider why you are so much in the function of protecting business secrets and bearers of business secrets. What is the state's interest, especially in these norms where all the living will be bullied by a person who wants to charge themselves fat because they want to destroy competition? You've given it a chance for everyone to accuse the competition of stealing his business secret, all of his norms, from Article 8, 11, 15, 16, all of them to sue each other and accuse each other of stealing their business secrets and asking the state to arbitration there. Whoever takes the temporary measure earlier has solved the case for his own good. Bad law, Mr. Minister. You will create serious problems in the economy and market relations. Pull this, let the government find a way out with one better-quality law. When all this is seen, it is not an honor to go to the National Assembly with a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60481	Four minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60482	I just have to find out, although the amendment to Dragan Stevanovic is passed, a weak vision for the whole law. The law will not make any difference with this amendment. He cannot remove his indiscretion from the first to the 20th members, and it is not the purpose of this amendment. Let's get back to the very essence of this amendment. If someone file charges for breach of a business secret or asks for a temporary measure or applies for evidence to be provided, then the defendant can seek, and the prosecutor, as a means of security, separates some means as a guarantee that, in the event of an unfounded request or an unfounded lawsuit and all this is done, a claim can be charged, but that claim, first of all, comes down to the costs of the proceedings. It's not said here what amount, and we heard about the temporary measures that it could be about confiscation of the product, and even talk about damage, lost profit, etc. It's just that here some civil-legal institutes have gotten so messed up that they've become their opposite. Now I have to go back to the beginning and tell you what a business secret is. It's information that contains data. Who decides which data is a business secret? The owner of a company's capital. What criteria should he use when determining a business secret? Sam can read it. What can ensure his business secret? You can have the number of black employees. Everything can be classified as a business secret. It's a weak vision of Article 3, where it's said, "If the information contains data that conceals criminal acts, it doesn't enjoy protection," but by the time it's proven, you know how long it takes to pass. The employer, meanwhile, finished the job. What's going on here, unfair competition, good business practices. Who protects and who has to respect business secrets? And physical and legal faces. Who can be a prosecutor, who can be sued? And physical and legal faces. In the end, we reach Article 20. Penalties and all economic offenses. Where's the public order here? Is this a matter of public law? Business secret has become a private matter. How can this be a business offense? An economic offense may be a failure to comply with the Accounting and Audit Act. Is this law in the same rank as the Accounting and Audit Act? It's not. The business secret is what the owner of the company's capital has decided. Although the law does not say who, it is likely that, in accordance with the statutes, the competent authority should determine it. There's not even a provision here on this procedure as to how business secrets are made. Here it comes from the premise that the owner of the capital said – business secret. It's just enough for him to say it's a business secret. It's enough for him to assess what a business secret is. A slightly more sophisticated lawyer in Serbia has to mock the whole concept of the law and all those abroad who have asked you for such a law, because they think there are a lot of these secrets that make it possible for these secrets to be so successful, so banks are worth 400m euros each year, so there's probably some secret about how they raise 400m euros. There are many other things that are a business secret from the point of view of a company, but no secret should be allowed from the state administration and the state authorities, because there we are waiting for them with Shabic, with the Law on Free Access of Information of Public Meaning. The lesson to anyone who is under this law should immediately go to the prosecutor and say, "I want to be an associate witness." Why the witness associate? The information that I would give you about the business of that foreign company in Serbia goes beyond the importance of my criminal responsibility and responsibility based on telling a business secret, allowing the state to find out that someone illegally is assembling large funds and to open up an entire system that looks like organised crime. It can be saved by saying – I will tell you which companies are set up to participate in tenders to get my former firm a job. I'll tell you in every public firm, the state body they're paying, who's in charge of allowing that firm to pass the tender from, it doesn't have to be, abroad. You know how nice that sounds in Serbia when the company's name is in a foreign language, everyone shakes right away. So this law should, apparently, allow people who are very successful, thanks to the zigzag business secret, to prevent insiders from giving away that business secret. They're counting on this bill and this government having an interest. Why? Then it wouldn't be WikiLeaks. This is an attempt to stop WikiLeaks and Dwarfs. Now they're not really dumplings, but some studies, some analysis, etc. Even so, they can declare everything a business secret. Everything. Believe me, the business secret is neither in the quality of the product nor in the packaging, but it is in what allows someone to have an approximately monopoly position. That little whistle that lets him do that, that's the business secret. And that's the line with those who allow or decide to be dominant on the market or to have a monopoly position. See for yourself what happens to these business secrets. One of them's on his cell phone for a dinar, now everybody's giving cell phones for a dinar. One went with cash loans, so now everybody's going with cash loans. One gave the ad credit 0% interest, did you see the commercials, the others say 0% interest right away. Looks like there's no business secrets between them. Everyone knows the formula of how to solve it. Not to talk about these great industrial espionages, etc. We're a long way from those big ones, you know. You know, that car only differs in the blinker, so it's a product from another country. We haven't gotten to that level yet. I think a big mistake has been made here, no problem is going to be solved, there's a real problem that a man who was in a significant place in a company who had a lot of that information and probably some information and some information was a business secret, maybe someone set it up, maybe it's not specific, but it's understood, by moving to another company, they took both that knowledge and that information and pretty much compromised that original company. Of course, we can't stand behind the fact that we approve of it, it doesn't deserve approval, it kind of needs to be banned, it kind of needs to be sanctioned, but what we're absolutely sure these papers and these twenty members won't end it. That's what our application is about, this concept of this law. We've tried several amendments to change something but we're aware that this is impossible to change. Why? Here, the legal concepts that, in the context of a number of concepts within a sentence really seem pointless and no one can interpret it. Believe me, there's little in the business world of information that contains technological, technical information that represents a business secret. Many of that data is a matter of doctrine, not of a suitable company. It's not a business secret as a high-port bridge is made, everyone knows it at the Faculty of Civil Engineering, so there's some innovations, so there's some patents, so a license is purchased, all that means, there's not many business secrets in that area. Today, business secrets have moved to an economic, financial, commercial sphere where my insider, where my channel is, is where I'm going to get information before the time. And now you're giving me a reminder of one more thing and you probably know it, but you may not even be able to talk about this blockade, Mrs. Comic, for Serbian goods towards Kosovo and Metohija, has her own business secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60483	People's MP, the topic of the agenda, especially don't be such a serious subject that you're trying to set up a debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60484	But you didn't even hear what I was about to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60485	I've heard enough, MP. Such a topic requires of all of us a dignified relationship without trying to bring into debate and an argument about a law that has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60486	In the most dignified way, I'm talking about this subject, except you won't let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60487	No, I won't let you break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60488	I do not violate the Rules of Procedure, only by promoting and saying that agricultural food products produced in Serbia are of exceptional quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60489	People's MP, we've already had difficulties with your idea of what to laugh about, and what not to laugh about in the Rules of Procedure that apply equally to everyone. Now he's warning you one last time. Either continue on the amendment that is currently under search or start applying measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60490	I draw attention to the fact that this National Assembly passed a law banning genetically modified eating organisms, promoting what it has done to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60491	National MP, final warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60492	Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60493	Because you do not respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because you mock procedures, because you do not want to consider the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to apply to you. So if you want to continue you have another six minutes, then you'll be talking about the topic of the agenda. I understand perfectly, and I listen very carefully to you, and it doesn't allow you to violate the Rules of Procedure by making one serious situation, because you think it's oratorically skilled to make a combination or try to combine it so that you think it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is. Here you go. You've got six minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60494	Mrs. Komić SRS has suffered a lot in public in this building since 2001 when... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60495	People's MP, the subject of the agenda, is now going to give notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60496	Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60497	Because the SRS is not the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60498	I'm telling you that we acted that the Government of the Republic of Serbia passed a law a few years ago that adopted our...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60499	If you insist, I will now give you my first warning. Agenda theme. I'm begging you. I'm asking you most nicely.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60500	Okay. I would, therefore, recommend to anyone who falls under such an incompetent and incompetent law that in the event of any action requires a temporary measure or that evidence be reportedly provided, and in those proceedings likely, who is sad should suffer some unpleasant, to rush immediately and to apply for an associate witness. It's a much greater guarantee that he can save himself and his family from apparently unwarranted persecution. Those to whom the prosecution does not provide protection, I call on the SRS to report for protection at all costs, because this debate makes it clear what the goal is and what is the basic idea of such regulations being passed. In the end, citizens are free to eat products that are produced...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60501	People's MP. Your will to prove that for you or the political group you belong to may not be subject to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the political party to which you belong is represented by the political group, the MP group is outside, even applying the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to which she would give you the measures of caution. It is unworthy to sit in the National Assembly, so much to mock what all the other MPs consider rules that apply equally to all. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60502	Article 107. You have no right to call me unworthy. I'm warning you this to you...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60503	The National MP in 107 is not concerned with what you want to explain. I ask you not to provoke the provoking of measures of caution and more severe measures for disciplinary violations. What you do is unworthy sessions of the National Assembly. Anyone else want a word? Does the minister want a word? Please sign in. Minister Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60504	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I would like to thank the MPs who have tabled amendments to the content of this law, and what they have said here in the debate on these amendments. I would like to inform the public that we have 16 amendments to this bill, and six of those 16 have been accepted and the amendment has been accepted, or the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for Science adopted its two amendments, on a percentage basis, that is 37.5% of the amendments we have accepted to improve the content of the law. I can't agree with some of the opinions we've heard here in the debate that if the amendment is accepted, it's not worth accepting, and that the one that isn't accepted, that it's brilliant, grandiose, that it has all the positive sides, relative to the one that isn't accepted. I am saying this because it is explicitly the right of the promoter to accept, in relation to the concept that represents here in the law, amendments that he considers to be amendments that improve the law. Otherwise, I'd like to say a few more words. Several opposition MPs who criticised this law have admitted that the proposal, or government, is a ministry consistent with the content of their proposal, and the other thing is that they disagree with that proposal and think the law is not good. For us as Government, I think we're passing one good and necessary law, because the law is general, because there are several laws that treat the concept of business secrets and these are three special laws, the Law on Medicinal Products, the Law on Biocidal Products and the Company Act. In order to understand the problem of business secrets, I refer to reading, understanding of the Data Securitisation Act, as well as the Law on free access to information of public importance. Then probably the content of this whole debate will look very different. We were told by a few MPs, several amendments refer to the issue, to the assistance of medical resources in the Law on Medicinal Products and the Medical Devices Act, Article 171 emphasizes what these types of medical means are, and points out that general medical means, that these include aids. There was no need to be particularly apostrophe, and the medical means of course were already included in the general and pro according to these amendments. As for the other amendments, we've tried to accept those we think are improving the law and vice versa, we think that some others we couldn't accept are simply not acceptable to us right now. I'd like to say one more thing, there was a lot of words about the formulation regarding the business secret of the formulation against good business practices. I must tell you that this concept is contained in international documents, look at three agreements, an agreement on trade aspects, intellectual property rights, and the fact is that we want to be members of the WTO, and the fact is that we've been running negotiations for several years now, and the fact is that on their side is being sought towards us, however acceptable or unacceptable it is, that our legal solutions also contain the formulations contained in the documents that are an integral part of all WTO acts. In all applicable laws in the area... (incomprehensible) property, for example, in Article 15 of this Act which has been subject to criticism. This is what I'm talking about, because I want to say one simple thing, but it's caused different reactions. We wanted this bill to protect confidential information that the law controlled by a physical or legal person against all acts of unfair competition. We think that this law will achieve its absolute purpose and that part of the overall problem of the business secret issue is, of course, I call on the NS RS to declare itself positively in the voting day, i.e. to adopt the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-19-0.u60505	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes today's work. On the basis of article 90 on the continuation of the session, you will be informed of the voting day and the timely date, and at the same time I would like to inform you that we will continue our work tomorrow September 20th at 10.00 p.m. by opening discussions on the agenda of the 13th extraordinary session, scheduled for Tuesday 20th September at 10.00 p.m.
