ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54312	Dear ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of a proposal from the parliamentary groups at the National Assembly of the Democratic Party of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica and the Serbian Radical Party, and in accordance with Article 209. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set out on Wednesday, April 27, 2011, starting at 11.00 hours (start at 11.15) as the Day for Answering Parliamentary Questions on Current Issues. Current topics on which the Prime Minister and individual ministers and other government officials will answer parliamentary questions are: 1. The sale of TELECOMES TO SERBIA, MOTIVES AND RESULTS, submitted by the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. I would like to remind you that the DSS parliamentary group – Dr Vojislav Kostunica has asked MP questions regarding this current topic to be answered by Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister; 2. DEFINITION OF THE POLICIES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE AUTONOMAL END OF KOSOVA AND METOCHY ON THE BASED RESULTS OF TODAY'S CONTRACTING TECHNICAL TECHNICAL TECHNICAL TECHNICALS WITH THE PRIORITIES OF SPECIFIC AUTHORITY IN PRIORITY, tabled by the Serbian group of the Serbian Radical Party. I would like to remind you that the SRS parliamentary group has asked that parliamentary questions related to this topic be answered by Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Borislav Stefanovic, head of the negotiating team for dialogue with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, and Goran Bogdanovic, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. I note that Mr Boris Tadic, President of the Republic, is not invited to this session because there is no legal basis for the President of the Republic to answer parliamentary questions, since it does not fall within the circle of officials who are under the provisions of Articles 204, 209 and 210. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are required to answer parliamentary questions. Also you, based on Article 216 and in accordance with Article 89(2) and Article 90. Rules of Procedure, I have called for today's session to be attended by Vladimir Jovicic, deputy head of the Negotiating Team and Dejan Pavicevic, secretary of the Negotiating Team for Dialogue with the interim institutions of self-government in Pristina. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to how to ask parliamentary questions concerning the current topic: – The right to ask questions shall be given to all MPs, and that: the first question shall be asked by the representative of the current subject, then the Presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, shall start from the representatives of at least the least the parliamentary groups, up to the number of parliamentary groups and MPs according to the applications, and by the end of the total time for asking questions and giving answers. The MPs shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a request to ask questions in writing until the start of the reply, and verbally during the duration of the reply. The MP may ask up to three questions (Article 213). Rules of Procedure); - Answering parliamentary questions may take the longest 180 minutes and shall be carried out regardless of the number of MPs present in the hall (Article 212). Rules of Procedure); - The time within which the MP orally asks the question is the longest three minutes, and the answer to that question is five minutes. After answering, the MP who has asked the question can ask two more questions, for a total duration of up to two minutes, and the answer to these questions may take up to five minutes. After that, other MPs have the right to ask questions, according to the order of applications (Article 214. Rules of Procedure); - In the course of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly, by not allowing replicas and references to the breach of the Rules of Procedure (Article 216. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. We're moving on to sending questions. First of all, let me inform you that the authorised representative of the motion to determine the subject of answering parliamentary questions concerning the current subject of "Sale of Telekom Srbija, motives and consequences" is MP Nenad Popovic, in accordance with Article 39(3). The Rules of Procedure, as well as that the SRS parliamentary group will present at this theme session of the Verica Radet in the debate on the topic. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54313	Mr. President, Madam President, fellow MPs, the DSS categorically opposes the announced sale of Telekom Srbija. We believe that Serbia's telecommunications is a strategic resource for the development of domestic economy. The thesis that Telekom should move into private hands, because it is a European practice, does not stand, because in Europe's most developed countries, Telekom is mostly state-owned. This is the case in Norway, Finland, Sweden, Switzerland, Italy, Belgium. Even in Slovenia, Telekom is mostly state-owned. In addition, Telekom is a company that employs a large number of domestic experts, which employs a large number of domestic co-operatives. Young engineers from Belgrade and other universities have the opportunity to develop quickly within Telekom, and it is logical that if a new owner comes, the scientific research work is kept in the country it comes to. It is a practice everywhere in the world. Also, respected fellow MPs, Telekom adopted an annual report for 2010. I'd like to quote some basic data from the 2010 report. One, Telekom made a profit of 17 billion dinars, the biggest success in Europe today. Why? Because these 17 billion dinars are 30% growth compared to the 2009 results. No other European telecommunications company has had this much growth this year. Also, the number of fixed phone users rose to 3.3 million last year, and the number of mobile phone users rose to 7.3 million. The programme of reduction of Telecom's debt was continued – the debt was reduced by 40% in the last year. Also last year, Telekom invested in modernisation and technical and technological operations of 16 billion dinars. The government claims Telekom is losing in the competition race. According to this data, Telekom wins every game in the competition here on the domestic market. I'd like to hear the reasons why the government intends to sell Telekom after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54314	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54315	Dear People's MPs, first of all I am glad that we are gathered (I hear stories that this period is used to celebrate and this shows that it is not true, neither the Assembly celebrates nor the Government celebrates) and I am glad that we have the opportunity to discuss the current topics. When it comes to this topic, the first one you have mentioned, the honourable MP, I hope that during today's conversation there will be an opportunity to consider all the most important aspects of pro and counterselling Telekom. I just want to say that your argument, which basically contains some three parts, is an argument that can be understood in different ways and interpreted in different ways. You think Telekom should not be sold – 1) because it is a strategic resource, 2) because it has a large number of workers and a large number of cooperatives and 3) because it makes a profit. It seems to me that none of these arguments, long-termly observed, can survive. First of all, the question is what strategic resource means. Does that mean Telekom is operating in some monopolies environment and holding a monopoly? If that's true, then it's also a question of his gain. Also, when it comes to a large number of workers and particularly cooperatives, the question arises whether their quality should be raised or maintained at the level within this country's frameworks. Since I expect that there will be a lot of stories in the afternoon about these arguments pro and vice versa, in this answer I would only be able to conclude that I believe that each of the arguments you have mentioned has its own other side and that it can be disproved in a very adequate way. When it comes to the issue of the number of workers and cooperatives, it is certainly the interest of this country to provide services and to develop in line with the development that is being achieved in the developed countries of Europe. Their closure within one circle certainly won't contribute to the results they could otherwise achieve, and we had the opportunity to see what it means in the '90s when the country is closed and what it means when you have no contact, no opportunity, no impulse to work better and to develop. As far as profit issues are concerned, of course, profit is significant and a significant profit can be used to significantly expand the technical base, given that our Telekom, however large a number of users and connections he has, is still in one part madgitalized and it takes much more investment than the amount of profits you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54316	Mr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54317	Mr. President, I've listened very carefully. I'm still having a hard time agreeing to an argument to sell Telekom. There's mixed property in Telekom today. And today, 20% of Telekom is held by the Greek company OTE, which in some ways is the daughter of maybe the largest European company Deutsche Telekom. So that Deutsche Telekom already has an impact on management, on the correct technological and technical solutions and knows how to choose co-operatives in the right way. And today, Telekom is working with co-operatives, of course, on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is remarkable for domestic economy, but many Telekom co-operatives are today foreign companies in an equal competition, which is taking place in public procurement. When I was talking about cooperatives, first of all, I was thinking about scientific research, which is always in the world where the owner comes from. So "Simens" holds it in Germany, General Electric holds it in America, and it is logical that scientific research, which should be the basis for Serbia, because the 21st century of telecommunications, should remain in Serbia. As far as strategic resources are concerned, I remain on the grounds that telecommunications is a strategic resource for every country. That is what the President of the United States of Obama said, as said Russia's President Putin, who set goals in their countries for 51% of completed engineers to be from technical sciences in this century. I'd also add that I don't see any reason for selling Telekom today, because Telekom is doing a great job and the only way to determine whether anyone is doing a good job or not. Telekom has extraordinary results and wherever this money from the sale of Telekom is invested, it will not bring as much profit as the Republic of Serbia's budget from Telekom today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54318	Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54319	It's a very brief comment. If the problem is that the Greek partner, or, as you said, the German Telecom mediator, has an impact on the cooperatives, then it certainly has an impact on the choice of professional and scientific support. Therefore, the question of the development of that part of our science is not a key problem when it comes to the change of owners. Because if that part is on an adequate level, as you yourself said, it will be chosen, and if it isn't, this will give it an additional impulse to develop further. This second sentence that you said shows, it seems to me, the core of disagreement, and it consists of the government not thinking it is necessary for companies like Telekom to finance budget needs in some long time. On the contrary, this profit that has been achieved needs to be returned, reinvested in the development of industry and that this strategic resource, to put it in perspective, is even more strategic, by being technically at the highest level, and not being used by withdrawing dividends and practically disabling development, which is otherwise not disabled by other Telekom companies in the world, including those already on our market, and which will be increasingly competitive in the next period, not only in mobile but also in fixed telephony.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54320	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54321	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS parliamentary group has proposed, with a request to discuss the results of the KIM negotiation team so far, the precise names and last names of the competent ministers, but also the function of another responsible person to answer questions. The second responsible, in our opinion, is Boris Tadic, and this was the legal basis on which you could invite him. Because it is he who should also explain to the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia why Serbia has entered into negotiations on the resolution of so-called. practical issues, and thus actually gave up confirming the KiM status issue in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Resolution 1244 and thus, in fact, Serbia entered the process of recognising Kosovo's unlawfully declared independence. For the last time in this House, KIM was discussed in July of last year, when we adopted a resolution that obliges all competent authorities and guarantees that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and already on 3 August last year Boris Tadic was under pressure from the EU, you remember, by texting Vuk Jeremic to change the resolution of the National Assembly at the UN Security Council session and never the public of Serbia is familiar with what was actually done then. Our fundamental question is – who authorized Borko Stefanovic (we assume it is Boris Tadic) and where is Borko Stefanovic from and, above all, Boris Tadic draws the authority that Mr Stefanovic can say that the Serbian negotiating team is ready to discuss the division of Kosovo? This is, above all, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 8 which guarantees the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. What is interesting is Mr Stefanovic's statement that no question with the Ship's delegation will be rejected by the delegation of the Republic of Serbia. Does this mean that if Edith Jasari or anyone else on that Shiptar team asks to be accepted and to sign the independence of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, you will not refuse, nor will you, Mr Stefanovic, but will you talk about it? So, we reiterate that it was necessary here today in front of the MPs on this and other questions answered by Boris Tadic, not in such a narrowly limited period of time for the MPs, but, Madam President, it was necessary to finally convene a special session at which we would discuss only the problems caused by the Negotiating Team with its unscheduled statements, probably beneath the cereals and who knows what actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54322	Does Mr. Stefanovic want to give an answer? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54323	Thank you, President. Dear People's MPs, some of the conclusions we heard during Mrs Radete's presentation we've heard more than once in public. I think there are, in essence, a lot of concerns that are caused by the very nature of the negotiation process, which can never be completely public. Because if he's public, then he, in his essence, denies that he's a negotiating process. Of course, we, as responsible people and responsible government, are in a position to answer to the MPs, and that is why it is also good that we are gathered here and that you have invited us to talk about this subject, and we are ready to do so in the future. The basic question is whether in any way in this process we recognize so-called. independence of Kosovo. The question was also, if I understood correctly, to say the results so far and who authorised us to talk about it and, if we say we want to talk about something, does that mean we will also talk about Kosovo's independence. In order to divulge these doubts, I must say that we are authorized by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, as such, we are absolutely clear and fully adhered to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to all the Assembly resolutions adopted by this respected body so far. So it must be quite clear that we, at no point at all, do not want, neither can we, nor wish, nor is this the aim of these negotiations, to recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. This process is designed to solve concrete problems that pressure citizens against KIM. That's our mandate, that's what we do, and that's what we talk about. For status issues, we can define that there are diametrically opposite views of KIM status – ours and Pristina. Our view of KIM status is, as you know, deeply contained in our Constitution, in congregation resolutions, but also in the collective thinking and attitude of this people. Neither the Negotiating Team nor the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has any intention, nor was it intended to cross a line that would in any way compromise our national and state interest. The moment we entered this negotiating process, we and Pristina had two major differences. The first difference is how we view Kosovo's status and how we define this process. You'll agree with me that we can't impose on anyone how to define a process, like they can't impose on us how we define it. For us, this is a process that addresses specific issues. Each of these issues contains status issues, i.e. Seeing the status, and as far as the Republic of Serbia, as you know, is very clear for us – Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia, and we have made that clear to the Pristina delegation. Also, by going into solving these life issues or, as you say, practical issues, and all of them with a strong and pronounced political dimension, we have come into a situation to discuss the following things. So far, we have opened discussions on the issue of cadastres, parent books, customs stamps, Ceft chairmanship, telecommunications, electricity supply and air traffic. Finally, we opened something called the question of freedom of movement, containing questions about registration plates for vehicles, insurance for vehicles, use of ID cards, travel documents. There's one more thing I have to say. In the current process of dealing with the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, which, as you know, has been inherited and lasted for decades – this is probably at least the thirty governments (and perhaps more) dealing with this problem – we have found a completely unsettled situation. Our citizens in KIM live in different ways south and north of Iber. Our citizens have different problems south and north of Iber. Our citizens are asking us as a state and as a government to do everything we can to make their lives easier and solve their problems, but they are also asking us to stop sending messages from Belgrade that can't really help them in any way. I'll remind you that so far we've had several rounds of negotiations at various times in our difficult recent history. Start with Rambuje, Kleber, Vienna... (President: I thank you. It's been five minutes, you'll get a chance to move on. All right, I'll keep going later.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54324	Mrs. Radeta, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54325	It is obvious, however, that Boris Tadic was supposed to be here as an exhibit of this regime. Mr. Borko Stefanovic has not answered any questions. He did not answer the question why the Negotiating Team, whose head he had given up on Resolution 1244. He did not mention why and who authorised him, from which legal act he drew the authority to say that the Serbian negotiating team is ready to discuss the partition of Kosovo. This is what is essential and what clearly says that unfortunately, the Negotiating Team has entered and entered the regime in Serbia and is entering the counter-recognition of Kosovo's declaration of independence. These questions that Borko Stefanovic was talking about, to translate into language understood to everyone who is watching us now – you talked about catastrian operatives. Are you aware of what it means to hand over cadastrian operatives to the Shiptar Separatists? You talked, you say, about freedom of movement. Are you aware of what you're doing if you allow, under that freedom of movement firm, to use the Shyptar license plates on Serbia's Shyptari to normally cross over Serbia? Are you aware that all of this, step by step, is the recognition of the false state, the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo? You've been talking about the parent books. Are you aware of what you will do when you hand over to the Shiptar Separatists of the parent book?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54326	Time. Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54327	No one, believe me, does not violate Article 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that, I think, can also be seen through the way we negotiate and through the things we agree on. The bottom line is that you will always know what it is that we have agreed on and what concrete solutions are. Of course, the congregation will not remain uninformed and will not be left without its own judgment about what we have done, as far as it is concerned. Where do we draw our strength? We draw it from the government's decision and from the decision of this assembly, through one wisely served, smart resolution, which you gentlemen have adopted and which has given us enough space to achieve the best possible result on this situation. When we say, as the Negotiating Team, that we are ready to talk about everything, it certainly doesn't mean that we are ready to agree on some things that violate our constitution. So that doesn't mean, if something is discussed, that the Constitution is being broken, because the solutions haven't been made. Secondly, don't have any illusions that anyone will sign anything. This process in no way implies signing any documents. We're not authorized to do that or anything like that. There is nothing, as you said, under the grains, activity on our sovereignty. What is certain is that the policy so far, which was led especially during the 1990s and shortly after the war in 1999, led Serbs, particularly south of Ibra, to feel left behind. They're completely confused. The messages of the political nature they received could not provide them with their existence. A growing number of our citizens are entering the so-called. Kosovo institutions and take their documents. You know that very well. No parole and political views and, as you said, the regime, which is a very inadequate term for democratic society, will solve these people's problems at KIM. And these people at KIM, believe me, since we meet with them all the time, they all tell us they've had enough of that so-called. The big policies and those messages you're sending right now. These messages won't solve their problems. We are ready to talk about every topic, none of us are taboo, and we should ask the Albanian delegation if they are ready to talk about each topic. No topic can be discussed unless we all agree on it. As the subject cannot be debated that we as we recognise Kosovo's independence. You should be aware of that. You should also be aware that the people you call the Shiptar Separatists are citizens of this country, if you respect the same constitution you call upon. If you don't respect it, then it seems to me that you would like to, gentlemen, KIM without Albanians. And that, you'll allow, is impossible. As impossible for our citizens in Klina and for the president of Klina municipality to feel your fellow citizen, Mrs. Radeta. And you need to make that clear to this people. It is a reality, such as the reality that Serbs in the north of KiM will never accept that they are part of what they are. independent Kosovo countries. And they're south of Ibra, except their problems are different. It doesn't take anyone to think and to have the illusion that we're talking about things that are contrary to our Constitution. As responsible people, who care about the interests of this country, to its laws and constitution and its national interest, we have entered this process with honor, wanting to solve the problems that some of you have left behind for us, among other things. I'm not looking at Slavica. ) I want to tell you, and I'm going to give you a concrete example - from Belgrade are sending messages that no one, no company in KIM, can register with Unmik, and now, according to this Resolution 1244, which you are calling upon, we would give and do a lot to get back into that situation. It is one of the examples of state policy being led towards Kosovo. It was driven by the sending messages being completely inadequate, raising unnecessary expectations of citizens, people being constantly light, and the funds that are sent below have been misused.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54328	Thank you. It's been five minutes. National MP Ivan Andric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54329	Thank you. At first, one protest to the ruling majority, because this way of working, with two parallel themes, really makes it impossible for MPs to speak quality and argument both on one and the other subject, due to lack of time. We will talk about Telekom, but in the beginning we will say something about these negotiations on Kosovo, so there will be no doubt of any position. When there is some big open problem such as Kosovo's problem, I think politics can be led either towards peace and normal problem solving or towards war. That is why we support this process, because it has obviously calmed down the passions of Kosovo and Belgrade. On the other hand, we support the process because it will solve at least some of the problems that people living in Kosovo have in their lives. Any opposition to normalising these relations we will read as one of the political abuses that existed and will exist in Serbia as long as the problem is open, where from Belgrade, manipulating the lives of some people down there, are trying to make some cheap points. So as long as these negotiations make at least one problem for the lives of people in Kosovo resolved, you will have LDP support. As for Telekom, I think, in a political sense, the question that we are asked today to speak of him is very hypocritical. I will remind those who are initiators, in a political sense, of this issue, the same group that, while in power, regardless of these reasons that it mentions today, left something that is the country's strategic resource, which is NIS, and not to a private company in the privatisation process, but to a foreign state. And if someone says today that you shouldn't sell Telekom because a billion and something can't be invested better than that it gives a profit of 170 million euros a year, we're asking a question – so why did you sell NIS for 450 million, and NIS today has a profit of 160 million? So there's a three-year return on investment, so was that a political wise move? Or we won't talk about it because we're going to invest in the Russian state in this way, and when it comes to a normal transition process, where it manipulates these figures that we have here, despite the historical experience of the whole world that the state is not a good driver in the economy, it's not, no matter what paper we're waving here. So what's our question in this sense, and we think this is also turning the topic off of what it is, and that's our question to the Prime Minister -- where will the money go from selling Telekom? One way was announced today, after a year. The state doesn't talk about any of its obligations. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54330	Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54331	First of all, I would like to thank you, Your Honor, for the analogy you've just given. I was going to talk about it in more detail when the discussion broke down, but you beat me to it. Yet I will retain the right to return to that parallel, which I think is very important, to see what is the difference and what is now with the strategic resource, with the monopoly, with the employees, etc. both in one case and in another, and why one situation takes one position and the other. But, I say, we'll talk about it in the next period, as questions arise. As for your question about spending money, I can tell you that there have been conversations about how money will be spent. There were a lot of different ideas, from the idea of one part being used to pay back the existing debt, and the biggest part of what we're going to leave for future generations, whether it's some kind of infrastructure or something that's really going to remain a lasting value in this country. However, the debate on spending money will certainly be present for a long time and after the transaction is completed. What's important is that I take it here is that it will certainly be transparent and that every penny that's collected will be treated specifically and monitored, so that it won't be possible to commit any abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54332	Mr. Ivan Andric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54333	Really, in a way, maybe that lack of time made it impossible... I didn't mean abuse, it didn't even occur to me. What's our question is, it's a question of the efficiency of the spending of these funds to be obtained. So far experience teaches us that money or this short-term profit from the privatisation process that is being viewed in a price that someone is willing to pay so far is mostly used, especially in pre-election years, in a very inefficient way. I don't think the basic question about the sale of Telekom is whether the state should run some public enterprises. I think that civilization has answered that question a long time ago, and that the real question is why now and why in an election year or pre-election year (less important) and how will Parliament or any other organisation that deals in some way with the observation and supervisory of couples spending have the opportunity to prevent political manipulation. I'll give you a concrete example. One of our colleagues is the director of Serbiaagas. Whether part of Telekom's money will go to Serbia, so that fellow will open kindergartens on behalf of his party, give away balls, start schools, etc.? That's what we're interested in. In what way will it be prevented? Because in such a system, in which it is impossible to control such a kind of political manipulation, we cannot talk about democracy. It will in principle exist. Basically, we're unequal on that market. We expect the government to advance the spending plan that will be obtained by selling Telekom, so that the plan can be controlled this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54334	Mr. President has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54335	I'll give you an answer very shortly. I think I'm worried that these funds will be spent in an inefficient way, and especially the visas of next year's upcoming elections. I think that fear is completely devoid of every foundation. First of all, I want to say that the budget is defined in accordance with the budgetary rules that it has adopted, among other things, this assembly, that fiscal policy is controlled primarily by legal regulations, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that we have a significant partner, that is the IMF. During my stay in Washington ten-fifth days ago, I spoke with IMF representatives, and we realized that a two-year arrangement had been successfully completed, which expired in April and already in May, we are starting talks to continue the arrangement. So it is likely that after all these negotiations are completed, the new arrangement will be concluded in August or September, and it will also retain these global proportions in the budget. Therefore, there will be no possibility of any additional funds being placed in anything that is not transparent, nor is it intended for consumption. In this context, I can say that it is certain that the money that comes from Telekom will not be spent in an inefficient way, but in exactly the way I said, that it will be partly spent on serving the obligations that were previously created and one part in building lasting values that will remain for future generations. As for the issues of decision-making and transparency, or the list of what it will be spent on, of course it will be possible to win and be public. There is no reason for this to be about anything that is contrary to what we call public, or transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54336	Thank you. As an authorised representative, Mr. Nenad Popovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54337	Mr. President, Madam President, Members of the People, I would only give one small crack at this situation, if it were not common in these situations, when there is a Prime Minister and when we talk about very important topics for the Republic of Serbia and the citizens, that the opposition criticises the opposition. I think we've got a lot more important issues than fighting between us here, but I'm gonna let everyone decide how he thinks it's right. As for Mr. President, scientific research, I think you've well noticed that a major impact on the development of research in Telekom had Deutsche Telekom, who, through the Greek company OTE, has ruled with 20% of actions, but you ignore the fact that 80% is in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia today, and yet that vote will keep science, or scientific research in Serbia, always be on our side as long as we have majority ownership. I repeat (that's a fact, I stand behind it 100%) – all the world's research companies always keep research in their countries, and that's a rule that nobody has strayed from since the 19th century. This is the case today with all the investments that happen in both Asia and Africa, both in Europe and, of course, in America. As for results and ownership, very often the results have no direct connection to ownership. Ponicu, very successful telecommunications companies in Europe are in majority state ownership and they are one of the most successful – in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Switzerland, even Slovenia, Italy and Belgium. And that doesn't bother them that professional management has a huge profit. If someone is unhappy with management today in Telekom, and we believe as a political party that Telekom is doing an extraordinary job, as his results show, I think he can publish a tender and hire someone else, more professional management. Also, money from Telekom's profits should be invested in regional expansion today. If you remember correctly, in 2006, the government headed with Kostunica bought Telekom Republika Srpska and in 2012 will even pay for the loan. In just six years everything that has been invested has been returned, due to extremely good business. Last year, Telekom Srbija became 100% owner of MTEL in Montenegro and I think it is also an extraordinary success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54338	Here, practically, there's no possibility of an answer. Mrs. Radeta has her word, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54339	Ladies and gentlemen, what the head of our representative team just said is really not worth a single answer and just speaks for that Mr. Stefanovic is not competent for such an important job and that we, the Serbian Radicals, are right when we say that for such secret negotiations and apparently indirect recognition of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo is the most responsible Boris Tadic and that he was here to answer our questions. Mr. Borko Stefanovic says that if we call the Shiparian separatists the ones he talks to, then we will not actually be Albanians in Serbia. Mr. Stefanovic, that's an ominous statement and you know very well that you deliberately said it. We, of course, don't mind that Albanians live in Serbia, but Cypriot separatists don't want to live in Serbia, Mr. Borko Stefanovic. And you haven't answered the question and persistently bypassed the question – on what grounds should you say that the Serbian negotiating team is ready to discuss the partition of Kosovo? And when you were talking here, you were talking about Serbs south of Ibra, Serbs north of Iber... Let go, Mr. Stefanovic, of those floscules. And you're transferring us to talk that way. We want those who represent Serbia first of all to be elections for the application of Resolution 1244, which you and your president and representative of the regime... Yes, what's in part 11 years in Serbia is a regime, and this is no democratic society, Mr Stefanovic. If it were a democratic society, then you wouldn't have to do a dictatorship and not have to listen to everything the EU and NATO say. And that's how you behave and we hear more and more often in public -- there's nothing since Serbia's entry into the EU until the KIM issue is resolved, or until it's resolved in the way the Cypriot separatists ask for it, and apparently that you, your statements or your untapped statements, or by preparing the public for something that you're dangerously preparing for us, and how you're taking part in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54340	Time. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54341	Whether the Negotiating Team is competent, it will best judge our results and, if you will, in the final instance, this Parliament, from which absolutely no one should escape. As for Resolution 1244, of course we stick to that resolution and, of course, that resolution in one significant part, to us the most significant, coincides with our Constitution. However, this same resolution also says certain things that absolutely do not belong to us. And I'll remind you of that. However, if we stick only to what is in our interest, of course we will fight for it and you should have no doubts about it. What you should know, anyway, is that when you use the term "secret negotiations", it's essentially pleonasm, and you can't really, I'm sure you can give me "public negotiations". If you find one example of public negotiations, I will give you public recognition for it. Negotiations in their essence must have an element of shelter from the public because, if in the media all the solutions were to be presented, not only would the other side know in advance how you're going to set yourself up, but it would also lead to no need for you to meet, but you can tell each other everything on TV. What we said about the division of Kosovo is that it is only one of the topics that we are ready to discuss. And the congregation resolution, the last one you adopted, allows us and gives us enough space, and you read it. As for what I said about your use, it seems completely inadequate, you said, "you will allow the Shiparian separatists to walk around Serbia." I wasn't talking about the negotiating team, Mrs. Radeta. I was talking about you calling the citizens of Albanian nationality a Shiptar Separatist. I agree with you that there are separatists in the Albanian people and, if you will, what is called the 'government of Kosovo' has a distinct separatist element, but that does not mean that we should not talk. The policy of non-conversation, the policy of keeping a strict status issue in the conversation, has led to this situation, and I will remind you of what the situation is. It is that all those who were full of Kosovo's mouth and care for the Serbian people are not there with them to solve their electricity issue, the issue of the phone. They are not there to tell them that if they take the ID card, they can take that copy out of the birth certificate, which you're talking about having recognised Kosovo. According to some here, when a Serb buys a movie ticket, he confessed to KIM. You'll agree, we're not ready to be part of such an unreasonable policy, which I deeply believe has led us into this situation. And does that mean that we recognize KIM as an independent state? Absolutely not. That's not what we want, that's not what we can do, that's not what we intend. That's what I want to say again clearly. And to illustrate what it looks like, I'll tell you the next thing. Take the question of the catastra, take the question of the parent books. Our delegation, as you call it, gives each of these issues new, creative solutions, which adhere to our sovereignty, do not violate sovereignty. And the opposite side, unfortunately for me, insists on a status conversation, which brings you and them, Mrs. Radeta, to the same plane. You and they talk about absolutely the same thesis. You should be aware of that. And we've changed our relationship to KIM. We haven't changed our interest and what we stand for, but we've changed our tactical approach. You should not doubt, because this government and this leadership, with the support of this respected home, have decided to approach in one wiser way, to be wiser once in our recent history, not to violate our interest in joining the EU, not to distort the interests of Serbs in KIM, not to give up the stance that Kosovo is part of the Republic of Serbia, but that our proposals are such that they do not violate our interest, while at the same time giving a completely new approach. I'll tell you one more thing. With this performance, with this strategy, we have received support from the international community. And you know what? It is much easier to represent the interests of the Republic of Serbia when the international community stands on your side, not when they are against you. We haven't seen that yet, Mrs. Radeta. During the times you're talking about, many have been against us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54342	Thank you. Mrs. Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54343	It is now quite clear that what Tadic's regime is doing is very dangerous. Mr Stefanovic again said, that is, what we have been making all the time and what we suspect, admitted that the topic for the talks and the division of Kosovo (this is what we strongly condemn) and confirmed that even talks on these so-called practical issues actually mean entering into the process of recognising Kosovo's unlawfully declared independence. The fact that Mr. Stefanovic tried to explain how smart he is so he knows that pluralism is "secret negotiations", he should know that, by the same logic, public recognitions are pleonasm. But, of course, we don't do stupid things here, we do serious things. Mr Stefanovic, if you continue to do so, you and Boris Tadic, it is obvious that Serbia will lose Kosovo and Metohija. You say you have the support of the European Union. So the whole of Serbia knows that the support of the European Union means to meet exactly what the Cypriot terrorists and separatists are looking for, which means Kosovo's secession from Serbia. You just said it was nice, you admit it. And you're saying that we and the Ship's Separatists are in the same attitudes. How dare you say that? Well, you work in the interest of Shiptar Separatism and their government, the separatist, which you yourself said it was. You dare say that a resolution that opens up the possibility of partitioning Kosovo and Metohija has once been adopted in this House. That's notorious lies, Mr. Stefanovic. You don't know what you're going to say. That is why you should have brought Boris Tadic, that he responds to the National Assembly and Serbian citizens why the slowly but certainly false state of Kosovo is slipping into independence, thanks to the policies of the Boris Tadic regime. That's what we wanted to talk about here today, not listen to something you learned in advance and what you prepared to say here. Answer the question, if you're ready to answer the question. Read Article 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, read a post in Resolution that allows you to talk about the division of KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54344	Time. Thank you. Just hold on, please, to the Rules of Procedure in terms of time. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54345	I intend to talk about the privatisation of Telekom as a decision that has not yet been realised and the first question I want to ask the prime minister is this – did Serbia, through this attempt to privatise it, recognise that state property is not a problem in itself, because if Telekom Austria, which is state-owned, appears as a customer, you are in fact confirming that the state of Serbia, as you run it, does not have the power to establish mechanisms and principles of effective management of its assets. So, if we are in line with the economic principles of the market economy, that public decision-making with advantage is possible, how is it that the state of Serbia leaves in an attempt to privatise another country to manage a telecommunications company? The great concern for all of us is this – is it possible that once the infrastructure sold, as the wrong way in 1997, should be repeated again? Are you really saying that it was impossible to exclude infrastructure from the process of selling capital? Either you need to repeat that mistake until the destruction itself or you with the experience you have do not know, what I suspect, that there was a way to exclude infrastructure, with the possibility indeed that the Greek owner OTE with 20% initiates the dispute as a minority shareholder. Mr Cvetkovic, I would like to make a statement to the Serbian public, even if we were to get that dispute, the value of the payment would be in cash, and the state of Serbia would retain the infrastructure. Namely, although the Government of the Republic of Serbia granted certain guarantees in 1997, for which it was unauthorized under the regulations at the time, it would not have been an impact on the international dispute. I repeat, we would make compensation for that international arbitration in money, and we as a state could create a public enterprise network. In this we even had an offer of "Erikson", which would allow us to retain ownership of infrastructure in a strategic partnership, which could be issued to other operators and thus improve, perfect and survive. You claim to be selling Telekom so that the profits don't go into the budget, but to be invested in the further development of Telekom. And who forbids you, as majority owner, to make a decision not to transfer your profits to the budget but to reinvest? You need this privatisation to remain in power...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54346	Time, Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54347	I'd limit myself to the three questions you've asked in the context of this. First you talk about who the buyer is. I have to say that the procedure itself has been conducted transparently, in a tender procedure in which you do not know who will be the buyer. Let me remind you that in time, when the procedure was initiated, the main story was how the whole thing was set up for Deutsche Telekom. The story was filled with front page newspapers, there were a whole series of statements from experts, various opposition politicians about how this sale was predetermined, however, it turned out that we really entered into a transparent process, which is still going on, and I don't think it's correct to consider the question of who's the buyer, whether there's going to be a buyer, there's going to be no buyer, etc. Let's wait for the procedure to be completed. I consider so much earlier not only incorrect, but also harmful to the state of the statements of certain politicians, and to remind you that your party's boss in a big rally has made a statement that he is telling the future buyer that he is not welcome because the Progressive Party is against it, and you can now imagine how it has been positively affected by the very privatisation process of Telekom. As far as infrastructure is concerned, I must also tell you that unlike other infrastructures, such as road and rail infrastructure, telecommunications infrastructure really has a very different option of being built up and you probably don't know that we have parallel infrastructure, that parallel infrastructure was built by Serbia's Elektroprivreda with optical cables, so the issue of infrastructure can't be connected to road infrastructure, nor is this order the size of money being observed, nor in technical terms. Finally, I want to tell you that already one good number of businesses are looking for and getting permits to build and lay optical cables along the corridor and I also want to tell you that, in addition to that optics, further development in the area of telecommunications, a significant accent puts on wireless communications, and in this context the issue of infrastructure and the opening of a process in which we would be losers, and the winners of this or that, is something that certainly wasn't in our focus, and we didn't want to open an arbitration in which we would lose.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54348	Thank you. Mrs. Tabakovic, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54349	First of all, is that monopoly infrastructure? I'm saying it wasn't, because the monopoly was abolished. Investment in fixed telephony, another and the like, would be a waste of resources and unnecessary, and if there was a need for an existing fixed network and what we call infrastructure, you must accept that the experts from Telekom, in which I am employed, know it better. You may have been misinformed, but I'm telling you, the statement made by the president of my party has been translated into a criminal report submitted to the D.A.'s office. As a first remark, it is a shame to call for transparency if, in the conclusion of the Government, you have announced the privatisation of a telecommunications company that is mostly owned without delimiting the law of the Ministry of Finance, or the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development in terms of jurisdiction for the process itself. You act like you're selling property, not capital. You, as former director of the Privatisation Agency, would have to make that difference. You haven't published any, in fact, whose package you're selling, all the time saying you're selling 51% of the capital, and without the consent of a minority shareholder, who only four months later told you that he would agree to sell his 20% of the capital. In the process where the company offered 500 million dinars below the price is a fundamental failure. The fact that the procedure is not transparent, that it is not known what is being sold, that an unauthorized body is conducting the procedure is something to be decided by the authorities. And the question I have to ask you is this, is it true that people of 120m euros asked the Austrian purchase operator to buy in this procedure...?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54350	Time. Thank you. The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54351	As for the issues of transparency in the process, as I assume you know, the usual world, so if you want our practice, too, is that when you get into big transactions, then you hire so-called. Financial advisor. It's a company that deals with sales. The professional firm has both financial and economic experts and legal experts in its composition. During the whole process, they give advice and make sure that the procedure is transparent and that there are no derogations or legal violations. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision, namely the conclusion that the financial adviser is engaged in. The financial advisor, as you know, is City Bank. It's a world-renowned company that prepared the paperwork and gave us advice about the procedure itself and warned us if it was against the law. We've made decisions according to these recommendations and the law, so I don't see any legal regulations that we've broken in that process. As for the speculation that someone gave someone money, I have to say that's the information that's piling up amongst you. I've never heard such information. If you have such knowledge, you must immediately report them to the appropriate authority, of course with evidence. If you don't report them, you become an accomplice to such illegal activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54352	Thank you. We are now moving on to the participation of the MPs in the order of the application. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54353	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Presidency, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Democratic Left of Roma, I would like to welcome the Negotiating Team, which is in talks with the Pristina team. Before my presentation I want to fence myself with the Albanian people, I am talking about Albanians who participated in crimes. We all know that an exodus has been committed, a serious crime against the majority of the people, and a crime has been committed against the Roma people as well. I speak as a man who represents here the Democratic Left of Roma and the Roma community and I believe that, as such, I can make a great contribution to the negotiation team's talks. I just want to say that at the invitation of the state I was in Kosovo, I collected more than 40 Roma associations when it was very important that the Roma did not Albanianise themselves and the Roma did not Albanianise after the military-technical agreement. They came with the majority people to Serbia and we know how and where they live. I also want to say that even the Roma in Kosovo do not live in democracy, have no freedom of movement, have no social or pension insurance, have no employment. It's a very difficult and dramatic situation and I can honestly tell you that they live in the ghetto. I visited Kosovo Polje, Caglavica, Laplje Selo, Preoce, Obilić, Nobility, Kosovo Mitrovica and I was in Gracanica. I can say, however, that in Gracanica Roma they have democracy, freedom of movement, purchase, etc. In these other places, I have personally been and talked, there is no democracy or movement of the Roma. They live there in a very difficult and complex situation. I called Mr. Stefanovic and offered myself as a representative of the Roma community who could say a lot about how crimes were committed by individuals of Albanians and of the Roma. I have a list of 154 Roma killed in Kosovo. We need to know it's been committed, and it's the most serious crime when you meet a Roma wedding and withdraw the Roma wedding and rape the young and harass, and even there were murders from that cordon. It must be known today, it must not be hidden, and whoever committed those crimes must answer. I want to tell you that today is also a very difficult situation and... (President: Time, Mr Damjanovic. I'll be right there. I just want to say, if you think I can make a contribution, to join, because I think it is important to know what has been done to the Roma community in Kosovo, besides the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54354	Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54355	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. Of course I agree with you and it's absolutely true and normal that anyone who committed a crime for them is responsible. I think, in that sense, we as a state and a society of good things have done, given that this person who committed this disgusting crime has been convicted before our court. I think this dialogue with Pristina can bring a lot of good, not only to the Roma community and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, but also to the Albanian people, because it will help to finally resolve some concrete things after decades of neglect and non-resolvement. In that sense, it is important to make it quite clear – if we stay in the positions we are in, and we will not leave, that Kosovo is part of Serbia, but we will not talk about anything else, then we will not solve any problem, because the Albanian side is in their positions that they are an independent state. Since we have such opposing views, we have found a way through this dialogue and this process to solve specific problems without questioning the position of the Republic of Serbia that Kosovo is its inalienable part. Believe me, it is my duty to say here that this process is not simple. He's very complicated, the results are small, they come hard and it will take a long time. However, it is our goal that through those solutions that we achieve, we allow people to live normally without compromising their position on Kosovo's status. I am sure that we will come up with new and better solutions, and in this sense there are other topics, which will be even more difficult and complex. But this process has nothing to do with Rambuje. This process has no resemblance to the Vienna negotiations, except perhaps in parts concerning some elements that were not later adopted. It is not the nature of this process that everyone leads representatives of ethnic communities to negotiations. And it's good that Pristina understood that, too. Because there are no representatives of Serbs on the Pristina team. Because these are not conversations between the two national communities, where everyone leads those who are loyal to them. These are discussions on solving concrete problems, in line with European standards, and taking care of that, we will not compromise our position on the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I wanted to tell you. Your knowledge, experience and data will be useful to us. And if it concerns specific crimes, and if it concerns the position of the Roma community in KIM, it will, believe me, be of great benefit to us. But this process should not be imagined through the prism of Rambuje. This is not a situation where we lead a delegation of 15 national communities from Kosovo to tell Albanians – you are not independent, you are part of Serbia, and they tell us – we are independent. If that's the nature of this process, here's what I'm telling you - that's not going to happen. We're not going in the same hole twice. I'm sorry that Pristina sometimes doesn't realize that it's necessary to get out of that wagon, which they've fallen into because of their exclusively independent view of things and life. That's why I think it's important the same, to repeat here, that even in situations where we have a misunderstanding from parts of the Pristina negotiating team, Mrs Tahiri is very constructive and comes out to meet our proposals, regardless of what she knows we're not going to give any original parent book, no original catastra, anything like that. But there are solutions that are between us and that can preserve our status positions, and I'm glad to have a conversation on their part that understands what is important and which is constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54356	Mr Damjanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54357	Mr Stefanovic, I welcome all your efforts in the interest of normalising democracy in Kosovo, which I consider to be still officially an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Surely it's good to have co-operation, normalisation, but I just want to say that the Roma are still in another territory of Serbia, they're not in their hometowns, in their hearths, their houses are burned down, they don't exist anymore, they can't come back, they can't work, and that's a big problem. I didn't even mention Rambui, and I don't want to talk about it. I was not a participant in Rambuje, I only speak as a representative of the Roma community in the democratic parliament of the Republic of Serbia. The state is a state, the state is working in the interests of all citizens, so please, if you feel it is necessary, I will make my contribution as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and a representative of the Roma community in our democratic Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54358	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54359	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Prime Minister Cvetkovic replied on 24 February to my questions about a series of very sensitive and difficult life problems present in Presevo Valley that a good part of them would be the subject of the upcoming dialogue. In the meantime, dialogue has started and very important topics have been raised, along with other freedom of movement and the issue of seals, which are directly linked to a series, already 12 years of unresolved, life problems in this area. In fact, the problem with stamps leads to non-recognition of documents issued in Kosovo, which directly reflects the threat of freedom of movement, the endangerment of basic human rights, which is intensely present in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. That is why I ask the Government – were the topics concerning the citizens of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities the subject of previous talks? First of all, I am referring to the most sensitive issue of non-recognition of the Pristina University diplomat, which is also a problem because of the seal, which is at least official, which threatens a very drastic fundamental right to the work of young Albanians in this area. In fact, this problem, as well as a number of other problems that are also very difficult, is closing perspectives for normal life in this area. Here, above all, I would like to mention the non-recognition of the right to children's allowance born in Kosovo's maternity homes after 1999 and the non-recognition of the pension internship for a period carried out on Kosovo's territory before 1999 (i received twice negative answers from Minister Ljajic). Then, local roads are still blocked, roads between neighbouring settlements in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja with municipalities of Gjilana and Kosovo Kamenica. These routes mean life, without them people can't survive there. Depriving the right to personal documents, including dissuasion of residence for refugees from Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje, who have been on Kosovo territory since 1999, and for whom no minimum conditions have been created so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54360	Time. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54361	Mr. Halimi, of course, the topics you have presented, related to freedom of movement, are somewhat affected by this dialogue. There are things about Kfor, there are things about other organs, but I can assure you that we who have a position are very clear on our status, i.e. The status of the province of Kosovo and Metohija, on our sovereignty, has found a way to propose solutions that will enable normal communication and that people can move, just by being our citizens. I know you sometimes go to Pristina to talk. You were with Mrs. Tahiri, too. I think it would be useful for you to support that the solutions we have proposed are acceptable for the Pristina side, by taking a step ahead of European standards. As for the issues of diploma and their verification, i.e. Accepting the University of Pristina diploma, which we do not recognise, since we have a state university in Pristina, it will certainly be a topic. She's not open yet, that's what I'm supposed to tell you, but we're absolutely not running away from it, and I'm sure we'll find a solution. On the other hand, you should be aware that when someone insists that a document on obtaining higher education puts some kind of coat of arms and the name of some state that doesn't exist, let's say one Harvard or Oxford doesn't do that, you'll agree that it says a lot more about the state of consciousness and positions of authorities in Pristina. That's exactly what I was telling you about. I think that, as Serbia is in one, I would say a more realistic, wiser and soberer way came to this problem, it is important that Pristina also step out of that independent vicious circle, in which it is important to prove that you are independent and at the same time throw Serbia and its institutions out of any part of Kosovo and Metohija. I am sure that as a citizen of this country and a political representative in this high house, you can also contribute by supporting the specific things we are talking about, and be assured, Mr. Halimi, that we are absolutely open to giving you information, to give you the opportunity to see what it is, especially if we come, and we will come very quickly, to topics concerning our citizens of Albanian nationality from southern Serbia. Thank you, and no one will turn off your microphone, I'm sure if you use the term Presevo Valley.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54362	Thank you. Mr. Halimi, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54363	Okay, Presevo Valley is our name from the election list, and I didn't understand Mr Stefanovic when he mentioned the most European standards, which he meant by the topic. In fact, I've been trying all the time with the Minister of Education, even offering what the Unmika office, which is currently functioning, and as temporary, as the beliefs that have been in practice for a long time and are still in this country, which are given in exchange for diplomas that are officially given by the University of Pristina, that it was a variant to accept here if, I say, a minimum awareness and responsibility for the fate of people who have been waiting there for years to work and to create basic premises for a normal life. That's what I'm talking about right now. I leave it to you to do this and wish you success in this dialogue, but I remind the government that it is a very sensitive life problem that this government has to solve directly, because it is about citizens who are loyal to these structures and this country, and right now in the field, the situation is not right. People are leaving, and it's mass. If this goes on, I'm afraid there won't be anyone else to solve these problems. Because the situation is disastrous when you have an unemployment rate of over 70%, when everything that's alive is there and what lived in that previous system has failed, and nothing concrete is done. That's what I'm talking about, that, in addition to what you're about to solve these problems directly, but not perhaps what Mr. Ivanovic announced, that it will be in ten and a change of years. Who's gonna wait for that?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54364	Thank you. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd just like to ask a few questions, but all of what we're doing today is too unserious, which shows the presence of MPs in the O.R. It is impossible to discuss and discuss two important topics like this and ask a serious question in three minutes. Who is this expert who can bring down two topics – Kosovo and sell Telekom? That's where one of them is made up to be such a wrinkle in this session, that it looks funny when you listen to one of them talk, the other talk to one another, and so on. I'd like to ask Mr. Prime Minister the next question. I know, and I was the first in the government of the Republic of Serbia to receive a man who has inflicted the greatest evil on Serbia's telecoms, and his name is Martin Schlaff. He was sent to me personally by Serbian President Boris Tadic, according to Javier Solana. The man presented the concept of what his role was in this business, and you now have to fulfill it. In the end, Telenor showed up and ruined the whole business. He's not happy with VIPs, casinos, bookies and other things he got in the privatisation. So what you're doing with Telekom is a disgrace to Serbia. You had a tender, which is over. The tender didn't work. Now some negotiations, a delay, giving on some delayed payment, etc., let it really serve you the honor, but for that someone will certainly account here in Parliament and the citizens of Serbia. Selling what is best, making a profit of 170 million to survive another month – it is unwarranted. Someone asked here that NIS was sold the same. Yes, but the NIS will give away a clean income from the corridor's passing, as the study has shown, 200m euros. We're wondering what you're going to invest in money from such a profitable firm. To create companies that will surely survive or fight for survival? Since I have no more time to ask you any more questions, I hope that in another tour, as far as Telekom is concerned, I would ask only a question to Mr Stefanovic – who authorized you, in the name of whom you are negotiating, who gave you the platform for negotiations, whose platform you have and whether this parliament is familiar with that platform or not? Who are you, and there's the KIM Department? And I ask Minister Bogdanovic to resign...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54366	Time. Thank you. It's a clear question. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54367	I didn't quite understand what the issue was about Telekom. I've been trying to combine, but I hope you'll have a chance to set it up more precisely after the answer. What I understand is that you're asking the question of why there was a delay, not the announcement of a tender failed. I must tell you that the procedure provides for a financial advisor, after studying the documentation, to propose to the commission what she should do. The financial adviser examined the documentation, on the basis of it concluded that it was inadequate in relation to the request and recommended the Commission to make one of the two decisions, where both are legally justified: the decision A – to declare the tender unsuccessful and decision B – to give an additional deadline for meeting these conditions. The Commission, acting in its best interest, accepted the proposal, one part of the proposal, and that is a full legal basis why it was so done. Whether or not someone likes it now, it's another thing, but legally it's completely clean and clear and there's all the documentation you can see. That's the answer, if the question was why there was an extension. If you had any other questions, about the character and the work of certain people, then you can ask them either when they are general questions or, if it is about Telekom, you can after the answer they will give you regarding the Kosovo issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54368	Mr. Stefanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54369	Mr Ilic, I was empowered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by its decision, by the adoption of a platform containing absolutely and completely the provisions of our Constitution and the Assembly Resolutions on KIM that have been adopted so far. I hope that's an adequate answer to your question about who authorized me. In this process, I represent the state, I represent the government of the Republic of Serbia and, in that sense, I represent you, too, Mr. Ilic. And this is not a party matter, nor, as you call it, a regime thing. This is one of the largest national ventures we have in this year, and in this sense we are giving meaning to the Negotiating Team, because this is a topic, as you know, and you will all agree, very complicated, unresolved and requires the highest degree of unity in this country. The worst of our national interests would be to now look at who's any of the party colors or who's from which parties, whether someone's been appointed by the government or he's an exponent of something you call a regime. And you, Mr. Ilic, know what the regime is, since you fought one, and if you can compare it to this now... I'm not sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54370	Mr. Ilichu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54371	You tried to answer, and I didn't understand you enough. The government gave you a platform. This Parliament chose the government. This parliament has adopted two declarations that are contrary to your platform, at least as far as I hear what you're saying. Should that platform have come to Parliament to discuss it, to make certain solutions? And I ask you not to violate the Constitution and the Resolution, which is the only right we have. So we have some capital that we have to keep, which is Resolution 1244. In the end, I mentioned the KIM Ministry. If we made it, if it exists, why isn't it the bearer of these activities? Why do you and the Foreign Ministry automatically give legitimacy to Kosovo statehood? Therefore, you've removed the Ministry. Who are you now to discuss on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs infrastructure, energy, problems and everything else they need to talk about, if we respect Resolution 1244, certain resolution ministries in Serbia? When I was in the government, we took care of Kosovo in certain restaurants, and that was done by certain ministers. Then the KIM Ministry was created and it was said that ministers work in co-operation with the KIM Ministry, which will carry all activities and be the headquarters of all of them. The foreign ministry is now appearing, which is completely independent, and they, most likely under the orders of the head of state, are conducting negotiations and are taking part in all this. So, what's the role of the KIM Ministry and the RES if you're negotiating on behalf of all ministers sitting in the government, on their portfolios? We have the Minister of Telecommunications, we have the Minister of Energy, we have the Minister of Infrastructure, Construction, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54372	Time. The word is made by Minister Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54373	Thank you, Madam President. I will answer to Mr Ilic for which the KIM Ministry does not lead this process and why the negotiation process is not led by the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. You know for yourself that the KIM Ministry, in fact, gives full logistics, but we have decided that the head of our negotiating team should be a man with experience, who has participated in many negotiations very successfully, a man who receives absolute support not only from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also from the KIM area, because it is literally weekly on KIM, where he talks with everyone, even with representatives of your party. That's one reason. Secondly, all of us at the KIM Ministry are giving absolute logistics and helping the negotiating team to the maximum. Here they are, on my left, you see that there are my advisor and my chief of staff, who are actively participating, as are all the people who work at the Ministry, and all the other ministries are involved in this process. Mr. Ilic, times have passed when the KIM Ministry and the Foreign Ministry were competitors. We had a situation, unfortunately, that one was done by the Foreign Ministry, and the KIM Ministry was doing other things at the same time. Those times are over. We have excellent co-ordination with all ministries and all ministries are involved in this process, so there should be no dilemma or ambiguity about only the Negotiating Team or the head of the Negotiating Team or its deputy leading this process. There is a complete government and it absolutely stands behind the Negotiating Team and gives absolute support.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54374	You have two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54375	I'd just like to add a few more things. I think it's quite clear that the Foreign Ministry, as the Ministry of this government, is not running this process or having anything to do with this process. I have to say it completely. I am an employee of the Foreign Ministry, but I could have been employed in the Post Office of Serbia. The government has chosen a man who can carry out a difficult process ahead of us. There are no unknown examples of people choosing for negotiators on the market. There are no unknown examples of choosing people who are strangers. I'm the man who's from this government. I don't think it's very useful or useful to imagine a situation where every ministry has a special conversation with something that we don't even admit is in Pristina. That is why we have drawn into this process in an adequate way, very constructively, all possible experts in certain areas, including experts from the areas Mr Ilic mentioned. They, with their knowledge and great pawnage, make a really big contribution to this process going in the right direction. These people are honorable, they're professional, and they have nothing to do with politics. I'm so glad we could invite people from different institutions and none of them asked if they could avoid it in any way. All responded and this shows how people are aware that their expertise can also be useful for state policy. That someone who is an expert on infrastructure or energy (which, however, there was no conversation) can sit down in any way and make a solution, I think it is completely pointless to expect, because decisions still ultimately have to be cut in an appropriate political way. And that is a confirmation of what Pristina says, that these are technical talks. If these are technical conversations, then there's nothing we can do about it. So it's not true that they're technical, but I think we've found an adequate formula that will provide safe results.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54376	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Mr. Ilichu, you've taken your time. You can't do this anymore. You spoke twice, and three minutes and two minutes, and there were more than three and two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54377	Dear Presidents, Prime Minister, members of the Negotiating Team, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I will talk about the privatisation of Telekom, or about what is given under some lyrical title - motives and consequences. But, just for a moment, I have to go back to what you were talking about, Mr. Stefanovic. It's great that you mentioned an example of Oxford and Cambridge and other universities that aren't burdened with putting their backs on their diplomas. Maybe that's why these universities are at the top of the world list, and Belgrade and Pristina, who are obsessed with these insigns, are nowhere near the first 500 universities. If that's where you're headed to deal with more serious, life-threatening, technical matters, well done. It is a small problem that this Harvard student, now foreign minister, is going some other way, and is slowly becoming a minister for Serbs outside Serbia and acting and taking over the argumentation and dictionary of Michael Kertes and some others from 1991, but okay. Yesterday's meeting in Karajordev was encouraging. Maybe our generation will still have a future. Maybe there won't be a generation without a future, as your band was called in time. But let's get back to the matter of privatizing Telekom. Somehow I think we need to take a step back. Most people here say that Telekom is some meteorite who has fallen for Serbia and now we are having a debate about how we are going to privatise it, as if Serbia has no experience with previous privatisations, including the privatisation of the same Telekom. And no one in that story is innocent until the end, so to speak. There's a prehistory. Telekom was privatised in 1996-1997, during the election campaign, at a very good price, but the money did not go to infrastructure, but to buy social peace or electoral victory. In 2001-2002, the government of Zoran Djindjic managed to return Telekom at the same very good price. Meanwhile, some other governments were in power. There were also those in the government who asked for this session today, you were in the past government and you, Mr. Cvetkovic, as finance minister, and there were a lot of serious problems. It was purchased by Telekom, or an operator in Republika Srpska, at a price that I believe was 30% higher than the second-placed bidder. When you offer 30% higher price, there are two possible problems – either there is some kind of political agreement that the company that buys is overpaid, or the one who evaluated when he made his offer as Telekom made a catastrophic error in the assessment. This higher price paid today, i.e. through credit, burdens Telekom and kills, among other things, his purchase price in this process. If we go back to other privatisations, I have to mention NIS. You told Mr. Andric there was no fear that money would be wasted. If we can hear – where exactly did the money go from the privatisation of NIS? (President: Time. ) Second question – we heard about the profits, but how much of Telekom Serbia's debts to other public enterprises... (President: Mr. Djuric, bring the end of the sentence. )......................................................................................................... and public enterprises to Telekom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54378	Please, the Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54379	I tried to figure out what the question was. In the end, I think it's a question of how money was spent from the privatisation of NIS. I guess that's the thing about Telekom. As I recall, that money was agreed and given that the NIS headquarters on Vojvodina territory, one part of the funds was transferred to Vojvodina, and the other part remained in the budget. There was no programme to use these money for concrete purposes, so the logic of the thing is that these money went into financing the credit commitments that had been made, as well as the current budget deficit.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54380	Mr. Guric, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54381	So the fear is justified after all. There are cases where the money went to that consumption, which isn't something you said, which we'll leave to future generations. But speaking of problems with former privatisations, here's what one of the problems stemmed from the privatisation of NIS is, that is, the conclusion of the entire energy agreement. I have a copy of the documentation from the Agency for Business Registers, concerning the underground gas storage company Banatski Dvor. As you know, this company was part of the whole energy agreement arrangement, at one point Mr Stefanovic was involved. That company is registered. The Russian side entered it, the current equity relationship, i.e. the capital that was paid – 99.92% of the capital in the company is owned by the Republic of Serbia. It's mostly equipment, land, everything that goes along with that underground gas storage facility. The Russian side has entered with 22,000 euros or 0.08% so far. On the other hand, there is a board of directors of the company, which has been formed and which apparently makes management decisions in the company, in which the Russian side has three members, and the Serbian side has two members. If you can just explain to me – what is an economic or economic model in which someone with 0.88% ownership, investment, whatever you want, has absolute control over one company? I won't even get into the structure of board members. On the Russian side, these are serious managers, on the Serbian side they are politicians, among other things the director of Serbiagas. It's time to step out of this policy-making way once. Directors in Telekom – MPs in the opposition party assembly, directors in Serbia – MPs of ruling parties. In the end, only Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic is in conflict of interest because she was in scientific work. Of course, I don't think she was in conflict of interest, but I guess some rules apply to others.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54382	Here you go, Mr. President, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54383	I'd like to say that the fear that this money will be untransparently spent is absolutely not justified. I've already said that exactly the specific account will be defined where the money comes from and then a spending plan will be made. About what happened earlier, etc., that's not the thing I was about to discuss right now. However, I can say that the money from Telekom invested significant funds in these smaller projects, but more importantly, that money came at the moment of the crisis, when foreign direct investment began to fall rapidly, so it was a very important input. As far as this other gas storage issue is concerned, I wasn't getting ready, but I don't think you're quite right about that. Telekom at the Gas Storage has no participation, nor gives any members to the board of directors, so you can be completely calm that the link between Telekom and the Gas Storage and Serbiagas does not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54384	National MP Slobodan Samardzic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54385	Respected MPs, respected members of the government, passed a motion for a resolution to the United Nations General Assembly given by the EU and by giving up its motion for a resolution, the Serbian government has definitely designated its partners in the international community to act on the KIM issue. She has also set partners for her activities in these negotiations or dialogues or conversations, however you wish. It's the United States and the EU. Thus, the Serbian government gave up some of the partners it could have had, which it had before when it was being discussed about KIM, whether they were official negotiations or other occasions, which are Russia and the UN. I was intrigued by one thing in several performances by Mr. Stefanovic. Namely, he said at one point that all these topics discussed in Brussels were covered by the subject of status. I can agree with that, but if the government has chosen as its partners two world players who recognise Kosovo's independence and who have advocated and contributed to Kosovo's independence the most, what do you think – how will it end in this status aspect of resolving each of these issues that you are discussing? Of course, I think you knew this in advance and that every issue will be in the spirit of the status of independent Kosovo, which represents Pristina and the separatist Albanians on the one hand, and on the other hand, the EU in the image of its institutions, its 22 states and the United States. So, on the one hand, the government is surrounded by partners who are for Kosovo's independence, and then negotiate technical issues that are covered by the subject of status. And we see from this conversation that even in these internal relations there is support for the LDP (that's what Mr Andric said today) for these talks, which also supports independent Kosovo. This is why these talks are so secretive, and this is why it has not been discussed previously in the Assembly that at least the political framework, not the platform (of course, the platform is adopted by the government) is adopted. That's why it's not all done, and that's why it's all going that way. For a short period of time, I will ask three short questions, interlinked, and I would ask three concrete answers, since the issues are concrete. The first question is – is it true that no UN or Unmika representative participates in these talks? The second question is - if it does not participate, why did the Serbian government agree to this? The third question is - who will report to the UN, if there is no UN representative in these talks, for which we otherwise expect...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54386	Time. Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54387	Thank you, Mr. Samardzic. There are a few things I have to point to. First of all, we didn't choose any partners in the dialogue. We are taking part in a dialogue that is formulated by a resolution adopted by the UN General Assembly, which means that active participants of dialogue – representatives of temporary institutions from Pristina, we (representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia) and the EU, which is a facilitator, i.e. Mediator, but has an active role in the dialogue. The United States absolutely does not have equal treatment in this process, nor does it matter, nor is it such a role that, as you said, this thing is finished and that they sit there and turn out to be leading the main word and saying what needs to be done, and what needs to be done will be Kosovo's independence because they have recognised independence. I don't agree with that, and it's really not like that, first of all, because we've entered into a process that's long wanted. I'll remind you that for years, we've been fighting the confessions of so-called. Independent Kosovo around the world, all the time wanted and had a strategic goal and interest to return to the negotiating table. That's the opportunity we got. That opportunity wasn't just won, and you know there were a lot of bumps on that road. But we are now finally in a process where Belgrade was not treated for the first time in a way that is isolated, that Belgrade is someone who only gives negative things and someone who needs to be punished and imposed a solution. This is the first time no one's ever forced a solution on us. The US's recognition of Kosovo's independence has absolutely no impact on this process. The United States is only involved in this process in a way that is present in the room, due to its unquestionable influence on the Albanian delegation. And as for those who sit at the table, we sit, representatives of Pristina and the EU, no one else. We have officially asked four or five times for the UN to be actively involved in the process, we will continue to insist on that request and be sure that we will get to meet that requirement. Just for the reasons that you mentioned in part, since we believe it is necessary that, for the sake of a report to the Security Council, there is a clear source of information for a UN representative during the negotiation process itself. At this point, the formation of the report is done in a way that you are also familiar with, which is that the EU representative gives his report on the course of negotiations, the UN representative informs him of the course, and so do we. Therefore, in order to avoid this dichotomy and different visions of the same process, we are just insisting that the UN be involved in the process. And we in no way have we turned our backs on the UN or the Russian Federation by investing in this negotiating process, which confirms the words of all Russian Federation officials, who fully support this process. Besides, you can't call someone in the house unless you're hosting that house. Since the EU is a facilitator, the main organiser and host of these negotiations, it is they who can invite someone. We can only ask someone to call, which we do, but we can't make decisions instead of someone else. EU and US representatives have an extremely statusual approach and in this sense you are mistaken, Mr Samardzic, when you say – the parties that have recognised Kosovo are participating. The European Union has not recognised the independence of Kosovo and Metohija (including the work of the government in which you participated), because there are five countries that have not recognised Kosovo's independence, and we do not expect this thing to change. In view of this, the EU cannot have a position on Kosovo's independence, but significant EU members can. Therefore, the participation of the EU and its, I would say a significant impact, very positive, on this process, cannot affect our change in the view of KIM status, if that is what is possibly insinuated through what is said. No one can force us, no one can blackmail us to break our Constitution and the resolutions of this assembly. What can be done is to influence two negotiating sides to correct their views in order to fit as much into each other's interests. That is the definition of the negotiation process. I believe that is possible without jeopardizing our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54388	Thank you. Mr Samardzic has two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54389	Of course, Mr. Stefanovic, no one has to force you into something that you volunteered to enter. And you came in because you're expecting a reward, it's an EU candidacy, and these negotiations are, you know, connected to that. And you have to finish them by June or at least until September, to get the state plus, accepting a conversation with Kosovo as an independent state. You haven't answered these questions exactly, but I have to tell you, if you entered into the talks that the European Union is having and if you saw that it doesn't call the United Nations, and you've had three rounds of talks and you haven't done anything, at least I don't know or the President of the United Nations has been there so far, then the question is why is that. Secondly, as far as the United States is concerned, not only did they, as you say, invite the facilitators to the United States as a guest, but Mr Thomas Cantriman co-chaired the first session, and on the second one was present, as you know, and he made a statement, conveyed by Belgrade's "Politika" to conduct the two countries' talks before the talks began. You know it well, and you can pretend as ignorant as you want, and everyone here knows it, and the further story of it is completely unnecessary. As for previous talks, I must remind you that no one has isolated Serbia and that they have also started around so-called. life issues – decentralisation, debt, heritage on KIM and many other issues. The status issue only opened on July 26th 2006, and the talks began in February and lasted much more intensively than those of yours. I'm afraid these conversations of yours, since we don't have information, because they're being led on very secret occasions, are over in advance and that you will accept everything that those who have recognised Kosovo are looking for as a way to solve these individual things. One formal thing, the EU has not recognised Kosovo, but its institutions work as if Kosovo is an independent state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54390	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54391	Of course we're aware of Mr. Countryman's statement and the attitude of the United States, which are not unknown to anyone. Mr Samardzic, we did not enter this process to convince someone not to recognise Kosovo, i.e. to admit it, to be precise. It is not the aim of the state of Serbia or the negotiating team to convince Mr. Cantrimen to change his perception, his country's perception. That's totally illusory. Does anyone think we're going there to convince someone that his view of it is independently wrong? Well, what would that look like? We tried that, Mr. Samardzic, and you know it very well. Well, we don't live in a world of Berlin Congress where you're going to go out and say locks and academic tiaras about what independence is and what sovereignty is. This is a cruel world where Serbs do not have electricity, in which they take ID cards and fear because the previous governments convinced them – if you take a ID card, you have betrayed this country. It's the world we live in and it's a world we can't play with. We need to find a solution for people, and of all the bad solutions, and believe that everyone has a bad aspect and everyone is harmful to our interest, we have to choose the best. And it's not easy. The US recognition of Kosovo's independence is not new to anyone. Let me remind you, Mrs Tahiri said these were the talks of two independent states. She also said that the U.S. is a facilitator, a mediator, which is not true, and it's not true that he co-chaired, as you say. Now the situation is much clearer and much cleaner in that room, believe me. The problem is, Mr Samardzic, what we are proposing is for each topic of two or three solutions that are absolutely in line with European practice and do not question our sovereignty, but it is rejected. That's the problem. But that doesn't hurt our general position, because we're ready to make a deal. It's on the other side to show that readiness. You'll agree it's a new situation. And you're a witness that it wasn't like that. It's not easy when someone keeps saying no to you all the time. Do you think we enjoy being told 57 times during the first day – we are two independent states? Do you think that we should not be tempted to say as they are? That is a provocation? Do you know how many provocations there were during the first day? But that's irrelevant, it's important that we solve specific problems. And you're making a big mistake, Mr. Samardzic, when you say that this process was made because we have a reward waiting for some recognition of Kim. We do not want to recognise and give independence to Kosovo, nor do we have a reward for such a thing, nor can there be a reward for such a move. If that's the reward, we've told everyone openly, and here's what I'm saying - we don't need that kind of reward, because we're never going to do that. So, if it's undeniable and I'm looking at you right now and I'm saying this, then what's the issue? Then do you mind our tactics, do you mind the way we're trying to solve this? Do you mind if you think we're naive to what we think we can solve? I don't think anyone has the right to take it away from people who have entered one process, even if there are negative things. Even if it lasts, and it will last, even if it is difficult, and it will be difficult. Well, is there one thing that we've all got together as a people in heritage that's beautiful? Is there one? We shouldn't be picking up on our problems with new perceptions and wrong conclusions about what we're actually doing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54392	National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54393	The basic question about the privatisation of Telekom comes down to the following – in whose interest did you take action to privatise Telekom? What is burning, Mr. President, in the state budget and in the state of Serbia, that someone with consciousness wants to give up the annual income of the most profitable company, which in 2010 achieved a net profit of 17 billion dinars, or 167m euros? Which private owner or responsible owner or responsible state would do so, and for what reasons would he choose to deny himself that profit and leave it to other owners, other States or other private owners? Will citizens get lower prices or better quality service? Are any of the countries in the fixed telephone subscription environment downgraded or have they, on the contrary, been increased? Or are you going to tell me that it's an unsettled company where it's not enough to have a record better than the one that the state itself has about the property it has? Such a record that my LDP colleague Đuric could and I recommend that he go to a corporate site and see that Jorgenka Tabaković, opposition MP, economics expert – neither director nor manager, nor head of service, and I was that. So let’s not use the alleged act of good for citizens and alleged profitability for all of us or for many of us. The government's burning under his feet, wants to buy himself another month, bribe voters. If you tell me that privatisation is something of the strategic interest of Telekom, I will ask if it is the same in the privatisation contract of the Commercial Bank, which you promised under the recapitalisation company for privatisation, and even recently, Minister Dinkic told us that 100m euros from the privatisation of Telekom will go to the recapitalisation of the Commercial Bank. Who's crazy about leaving the most profitable part of their economic system and the growing market of telecommunications to someone else?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54394	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54395	Dear People's MPs, I would like to say that here we are still discussing one question that I think is a civilized answer, and I am actually insisting on that answer. I can understand that there are different attitudes, but it's hard for me to put myself in a position to discuss something that seems notorous. So if this company is now profitable in state-owned property, it will be even more profitable in private ownership. It's definitely true that private property is much more effective than state property. If you want to say otherwise, then we're entering a field that really requires a lot more expert debate than there is room for that. It is in the best interests of the state that all companies are privatized. Not only Telekom, but to privatize Jat, to privatize other companies tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and thus to come to a level of one greater efficiency, which will allow for a better standard of living. I don't know why you're fascinated by the current results of the company, which are really good, but which, surely, fourris paribus, would have been better if it were private property. As for the question that this has anything to do with the election campaign, the election, the spending, I have to tell you -- if you had participated in some of the serious transactions, you would see that it had nothing to do with it. First of all, even if the transaction were to end successfully, let's say in May, you have this so-called. A "clauzing period" that will take three to six months. It's not until after "clauzing" that money is paid. That paid money certainly in this calendar year, even if someone wanted to spend it, could not be spent, given the "procurment procedure" and the way the money was spent at all. I think we should get some alleged drama off the table in Serbia's budget. There is no drama in Serbia's budget. Serbia's budget is stable. The funds are coming as planned. There are certain missing funds, which are also closed and financed in a way planned and envisaged. This transaction basically has nothing to do with either the current budget or the financing of a campaign, as I said before, and in the best interests of the state is privatisation. I don't know what your party will insist on in the future, but I hope and I want to believe that she and other opposition parties will understand that the direction of privatization of a system like Telekom is something that is certainly waiting for us in the future, whether, at this time, during these ongoing transactions, or some of the following.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54396	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54397	Your dictionary says, in the Republic budget, it's not drama, it's tragedy, and you know that the show of vault records and all the other records of value prove it. But that's not the subject this time, and it is about the privatisation of Telekom. Telekom is a stock company and has private capital. Deutsche Telekom OTE's daughter owns 20% of Telekom. It's not about the state company. Where the boundaries of privatisation, in scientific and theoretical terms, are best answered by a profitable international organisation dealing with sustainable development, it is called the "Roman Club" and in 2005 it issued a publication called "Where are the boundaries of privatisation and how to avoid the excess of one otherwise desirable process". This is an excess of one otherwise desirable process, and the evidence of an excess otherwise desirable process we have in this country shines and is called – the number of unemployed people. When someone says that the lobbys of suppliers and contractors in Telekom funded a campaign against sales, that I tell you what you must know, that Telekom has suppliers and performers from China, through France, Germany, to all international and important corporations, but also domestic. And I can boast of the company where I'm employed, but also one remark to make. It's not about profit, it's about hundreds of young people working under temporary and occasional contracts and who, in their biggest company to which they contribute, would have to have permanent employment, because they're constantly contributing to its development. And we don't need privatisation for that. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54398	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54399	First, let me say about the vault records, although that's not the subject, but when you mentioned them. Treasury records are a perfectly regular way of covering the funds needed to finance the budget. It's not what we invented or it's just us, it's what we do in all countries. You know what that budget deficit is. You, after all, voted him here. Therefore, there is no drama or tragedy. It's one regular job that's being done and the funds are being raised from there. Recently, the supply of funds is even bigger than we need, so we do not withdraw all the funds compared to those available on the market. As for this academic debate on the issue of "privatisation – yes or no", I really don't think there's any need for it to be led at this level. I told you my opinion, and you, instead of quoting certain books, go with your professional attitude and if he gets the support of the professional public, then I will support him. As long as the professional public has the opposite attitudes, different yet individual attitudes, I will retain the right to stick to what most people say.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54400	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54401	On the occasion of these current topics, I am asking questions to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. And to warn the public that the question of KIM and Telekom unfortunately have the same fate. There is some connection when you have combined these two current topics – both are for sale. And those who worry about Telekom can understand what it's like for those who worry about KIM, and for those who worry about KIM, it's clear what it's like for those who talk about Telekom. So, the two best things in Serbia are sold. The best company – we will not be the best company, says Mirko Cvetkovic with his government. And now it's just a matter of techniques, tactics, media, and other things about how it's going to be covered up, and we can all assume in advance what's going to happen. Why? Because this authority is bound to develop good neighbourly relations. This is a condition for the European path, and today we are in the distance between the Constitution and the vital interests of this people and what the EU is and their demand is a problem that makes Mr. Mirk Cvetkovic extremely difficult, and he wants to believe. We heard a confession - negotiations are secret, we find it very difficult, 56 times we are told that these there are independent, Mrs Tahiri praises negotiators that they are very constructive, in terms – as soon as you enter the negotiations, you move to the table, the decision is already known. Of course, our idea was to get a report today, get the most basic information on whether this team is violating the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. They are violating the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. They also break those oaths that were made here. And we don't even know how there was a change in what the National Assembly decided, so the joint EU resolution and allegedly the Republic of Serbia came into session. And now he negotiates and agrees to independence. And this team's been stepped up. There is also the first Serb to serve as minister in the government. First. And do not be angry with this Bojan and these others, they have their example. Just smile, just smile. Smile and you're selling Telekom. These are your epochal results. We are looking for answers to questions – when will you stop...?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54402	And why don't you stick to the Rules of Procedure? Please, why don't you stick to the Rules of Procedure? It's been three minutes. Here you go. Who does? I've already warned Mr. Krasic with a mime, with a movement, but it's not worth it. Who does? Here you go. There's almost no questions, is there? There's no answer here, because there's no questions. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. You're giving up? Yeah. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54403	Any other rules of procedure apply today?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54404	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54405	Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54406	Because, according to the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to comment on the answer, but since you haven't asked the question, there is no answer, so you don't have two minutes to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54407	I asked the question, and they denied it like this, by mimicking it. Like you're suggesting, that's what they did.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54408	The word is Alexandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54409	Mr. Prime Minister, I agree with your finding that the Assembly and the Government are not celebrating, because it is certainly not the time to celebrate, but I cannot say that it is not the time to celebrate the moment when we lose both money and resources by selling Telekom. You said we'd consider the arguments pro et contra, and I'll say Serbian that the "yes" argument is gone, and "against" are many facts. Since questions are being asked here, my first question is whether or not you know that on March 15th, the DSS submitted a petition with a hundred thousand citizens' signatures against the sale of Telekom. Do you really think that 100,000 people are uninformed about this pro sale of yours? Do you know that several thousand representatives of the representative Union of Telekom Srbija against the sale of Telekom were protested on 19 March? In addition to the Telecom Trade Union, they were representatives of the Republika Srpska-Montenegro trade union, as the new owner of Telekom Srpske and MTL of Montenegro, in which Telekom Serbia invested more than a billion euros. Furthermore, since I see Mr Predrag Markovic, Minister of Culture and Information present, do you know that a letter has also been sent to Mr Markovic and the appeal is being transferred, informs the Government of the Republic of Serbia about the results of the DSS petition? I assume you have something to do with the government of the Republic of Serbia and that the minister in charge had an obligation to inform you. Furthermore, do you know that Telekom is sold against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 84(2) but also against the provisions of at least two Serbian laws – the Law on Privatisation and the Law on concessions? Furthermore, who in this country gives it the right to the state administration, or rather to the individuals of that administration, to violate the Constitution, in which you are still supposed to solemnly swear, which enables these same people to unpunish the laws of this country, and all of this to the detriment of citizens whose interests must be protected? In the end, did one of the zealous negotiators determine who the bidder is? Namely, is this the same Telekom Austria against whom, according to the writing of Austrian magazines "Profile" and "Format", several investigations of suspected payments to ruling parties and politicians? If so, is their experience in bribing politicians in our case an advantage? Who allowed the three-time monopoly to be given to foreigners? In addition to fixed telephony monopoly, the customer of Telekom will acquire a monopoly on infrastructure, a fixed telecommunications network and facilities that serve to set up a future network. This will disable other operators who are licensed to access the network or set up their own.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54410	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54411	Dear People's MPs, you've opened up a series of questions. I'm gonna start answering them, and if I don't make it, then I'm gonna answer your additional question. You brought in two or three new things here compared to what we heard. The first thing is that the whole transaction is against the Constitution. This is a very interesting question, which is being raised in other circles, and we were very sensitive to it when we heard it in our own time and asked for legal opinion, to see which member of the Constitution prohibits the sale of Telekom, which the laws prohibit from selling, etc. And We have established that there are no laws which could be forbidden, nor is it contrary. But then we wondered why such a passion and why people would even ask it as a question and, aboutly, the answer was that the whole transaction was not being conducted by the Privatisation Agency, but was being led by the Ministry of Finance, as the one who basically manages the funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. We then sought a legal basis, to see if our proceedings were indeed correct or not, together with representatives and our advisers and representatives of our legal service. The answer we have received is that the transaction is fully in line with all existing regulations and that, basically, the issue of privatisation under the Privatisation Act is mixed with the sale of anything in its own state. In particular, when it comes to Telekom, it is organised as a closed company and a founding act, which it is organised, as well as the statutes of the company do not provide for restrictions in the transfer of actions. Thus, when a transfer or sale of shares is carried out, the provision of Article 195(2) shall apply. The company law, and that's the legal basis on which the entire transaction is conducted. So there's no point in saying that the transaction is neither against the law nor against the fact that it's anti-constitutional. When it comes to these other issues that you have raised, and that is whether it is an argument that one party organises the collection of signatures, that stands in defense of the attitude that is contrary to what the government thought was right, I think that argument, of course, has a certain weight, but it also opens up some other questions that are here, to say now, and is mentioned by an opposition MP who has therefore received criticism from another opposition MP. In fact, maybe we should really start a new argument, and that new argument is an analogy between the two transactions that we've had the opportunity to witness in the last two or three years. On the one hand, we have a transaction that was carried out when it comes to the oil industry of Serbia and, on the other hand, we have a transaction that is now under way, which is a transaction related to Telekom. Some of the same parties, including one that collects a petition and, of course, yours, with great enthusiasm voted and supported the NIS transaction. Of course, I personally supported her, because everything I consider to be a Telecom sale, I thought it was true for NIS sales. It would be interesting to consider in which way and what are the key differences between these two transactions, which is the argument that you state why this other transaction should not be carried out. You just said yourself it's a monopoly and it can't be sold. The question arises whether at the time of the sale of NIS, NIS was a monopoly or not a monopoly. I think it's absolutely pointless to point out that, together with NIS and objective natural resources, they were packed, and these are domestic reserves of oil and gas. So if someone said that NIS was not a monopoliest, had it not been a strategic company for Serbia, then I could understand that it is the same difference between the two transactions. Since the story is a little longer, and I know the time is running out, I'll continue after I get the second piece.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54412	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54413	Frankly, you haven't even answered 0.5% of the questions I asked. So the experts on constitutional law claim what I'm talking about, and who's on your legal teams, that's something that's relatively clear. Since you haven't answered, I'm going to add a few more questions. So I'm wondering if anyone in that public administration of yours is even thinking about how this country will function when it's out of property, which has been created decades ago, and that you're having trouble selling. Do either of you consider how our children and grandchildren will be able to repay debts that irresponsible government, first of all yours, has made by introducing so-called. democracy and so-called the free market, in fact in terms of politicians, tycoon and criminals, and with the help of sponsors, in public known as businessmen? And another question for you. Do you know who is the author of the next claim – Telekom is the only or at least the best cow from our barn, which gives 200m euros a year and sells for a billion, so that the money is pumped into salaries and pensions, all to win new lies and promises in the elections, because politics and ethics in Serbia do not live on the same home number. So you sell cows to buy milk. I'm sorry I didn't come up with this. The drama artist Sinisa Kovacevic came up with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54414	Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54415	So we have two transactions - NIS and Telekom. You say - Telekom shouldn't be sold because it's a monopoly. Was NIS a monopoly at the time of the sale? You're saying Telekom shouldn't be sold because it's a strategic resource. Was NIS at the time a strategic resource? You just said that by selling that state, it's out of property. Did the state run out of NIS property? You say there's a large number of workers in Telekom. Was there a large number of workers in NIS? What's the fundamental difference between that? The fundamental difference, I would say, is that the NIS transaction was a tender-free transaction, based on an interstate agreement, and that transaction is totally legal and legitimate, while this transaction we're going to be in is also transparent with the tender. Look at the NIS results. The NIS results are excellent. The NIS has also made a big, even bigger profit than the one you mentioned for Telekom. The second management came to NIS and invested half a billion dollars in the Refinery in Panchev. So, on the one hand, you have a privatisation that at some point looked controversial, supported by you, of course supported by a ruling piece that is still ruling, and it appears that we have made a very good move, where we have turned a company that was the way it was, into a profitable company that gives us excellent results and tomorrow will be a leader in the region. Now, from that position, you are completely opposed to the same thing with this company, which is why I'm asking the question – what were the reasons for you to support that transaction in the first place? Because for me, those reasons are the same. So I also thought the state was a bad owner when it comes to NIS, as I think it is bad for Telekom. I also now believe that Telekom will work better in the private sector, as the NIS has shown, is doing better in the private sector. It really leaves me unclear how you now have, when it comes to NIS, one attitude, and when it comes to Telekom, the other. You're even going to the signing collection, etc. So this is really very interesting I want to say that the attitudes... [[Throwing it out of the bench.]] (President: Read Article 214, you will understand. So, what I'm saying is that the attitudes remain the same. Because of all the attitudes that we had then, they stay and now, and that's why we're going to privatize. I'm not asking you this as a question of why you've changed your attitude, but I'm trying to get you back and convince you that the arguments you've had back then were also of importance and now, and I'm asking you that if you kept those same arguments (if, of course, they weren't others, but my guess is that they were identical), then you have to support and sell Telekom.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54416	Mr. Nenad Popovic has a word. Just information to MPs who are not clear. At first, I read Article 214. Rules of Procedure. So we're just applying it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54417	Mr. Prime Minister, Madam President, my colleagues, I am sorry that you did not, Mr. President, respond to my colleague Jankovic and that she does not have the opportunity to replicate, but I, first of all, do not stray from the subject, want to repeat that the DSS categorically opposes the sale of Telekom. As far as NIS is concerned, it came to me as a cream on this subject and I completely disagree with you that these two transactions are identical. Why, I will explain it to you. First of all, NIS was a loser, and Telekom's making a profit. I agree that after the entry of a foreign partner this year, it was remarkable and that next year it will also be remarkable, but in Telekom we already have a foreign partner, which is Greek OTE, daughter of Deutsche Telekom. So, we already have private property here, and that's probably why he's doing an amazing job, with excellent management. Furthermore, I am glad that you support what happened with NIS, but because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I want to point out that NIS has not been sold, that, Mr. Prime Minister, was only part of the overall gas-oil agreement. NIS was only part of perhaps much bigger things, which is the South Stream, a pipeline that will pass through Serbia and as recently said by President Putin in the assembly, everyone in the EU will wake up every morning and wish a good day to Serbia because Serbia will be on the strategic path of the European pipeline, which is a pipeline for Europe. Serbia got the pipeline. It was not planned in the first version, you know very well that it was going through Serbia, because the trip through Romania was much cheaper and more favourable, but thanks to the government of Vojislav Kostunica, it made a decision by the Russians to pass through Serbia anyway and, to the great satisfaction of all, this assembly supported the arrangement with practically 95%. I would also like to add - we all advocate privatisation, but there are gradual privatisations. Today Telekom is half private, 20%. You could've gone with the initial public offering to another 20%, so you'd still have state property, and by some estimates, you'd get 400-500 million. And just to add -- the government of Zoran Djindjic has done exactly the opposite of what you are doing, she has returned Telekom to the property of the Serbian state. It was an extremely good decision back then, and I support it, and you're doing the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54418	Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54419	Once again, I will repeat my position – we do not agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54420	Thank you. There are no questions here. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to take the opportunity to, first of all, point out one fact that has repeatedly been repeated here, which is that this House, the National Assembly, has brought some resolutions and given the opportunity, allegedly, to some self-releasing diplomat to negotiate on behalf of Serbia and make statements that we are reading in the press these days. I would like to stress that this assembly adopted a resolution on 26 December 2007 which stands – the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia and on 26 July 2010 – on the continuation of the activities of the Republic of Serbia in preserving the same territorial integrity and sovereignty of KIM. So, there's no one saying that it's a trade, any section we're reading about these days in the media... (President: I have to ask you, since you're not hearing yourself very well, to pick up a little microphone and turn to the microphone. This is what you made. (President: Yes, but it's moving and you can lift up a little bit and turn to the microphone. ) I want to ask a question, especially before this election, and when the Serbian negotiating team does not run away from the possibility of discussing the partition of Kosovo, and to especially highlight the problems of the Serb people in KIM. Because this is where it went with the idea of providing the people with some improvement, for the Serbs at KIM, through this negotiating process, and these statements create anxiety. Citizens of central Kosovo, Strpc, from Kosovo Pomorava call me and say – what are they doing, what are they dividing us from, and who gave them the mandate? Is it by order of Vuk Jeremic, is it by order of Boris Tadic? On whose behalf does this Borko Stefanovic speak? Who does he want to share? Whose grandmother wants to share? And they tell him the same Serbs from the KIM area, of which he was allegedly given a mandate to speak, that he gave the same statement, that he should not share us and that the Serbs in KIM live in the state of Serbia, not in some country they say is an independent state of Kosovo, which they repeatedly mention to him during their negotiations. Also, I want to stress the shame for this negotiating team and this government of the Republic of Serbia that after three rounds of negotiations, which we know absolutely nothing about, we have a meeting and we talk. In the meantime, they met with representatives of the KIM Assembly, the so-called KIM Parliament. Serbian lists formed in Tadic's cabinet. These are the people whose opinion Borko Stefanovic should hear and whose ideas should be implemented. (President: Time. ) I therefore ask the question – should it be implemented by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or by some self-called MPs who have... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54422	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54423	Thank you very much. We talk to all KIMs – with political representatives of Serbs, but also with ordinary citizens. This practice will continue, and we don't favor anyone, they're all the same in that sense. Of course we don't talk to representatives of the so-called. SLS, or what's-his-name. That's what it's all about. Secondly, I think I have already made this clear about division – our citizens should not worry about it. Because we, I repeat, are ready to talk about everything. But talking about everything doesn't mean anything to accept, sign or implement. Such matters require wider and political and social support, a higher degree of unity and appropriate decisions that are not at the level of the Negotiating Team. So no one should think that we're making a secret deal in that sense. And it's not exactly what you say, Mr. Kragovic, as chairman of the KIM Committee. We had a meeting with you, too. We'll have a meeting, if I understand correctly, now in a few days we'll be back on the KIM Committee and we'll continue that practice. I don't see what's going on here. The KIM Assembly Committee has information on the course of the negotiations and will have them. He'll have all the details, and everything you're interested in, we'll always tell you the truth. Was it once that you called us and we didn't come? It's not. Therefore, do not bring disinformation here. After all, you're not, I don't think, competent to say whether or not she's a diplomat. Don't mind me, but I don't think that's within your competence, not professional, not human. As far as I'm concerned, that's what I said. I was empowered by the government of the Republic of Serbia, based on a platform that was adopted absolutely in an indivisible way with the Constitution and the Assembly resolutions. So, Mr. Kragovic, I represent what you adopted. And I don't know where that suspicion comes from, except that in some segments of our political life, the apriors can't accept something being done in the state interest, because we're divided by party lines. I think it's irresponsible and immature. We represent the state interest, and in that sense I don't understand when certain things are attacked by insinuations, claims without any arguments. You'll agree that not only is it unpleasant and untrue, but it's damaging our state interest. Because if you create an image to do something against this country... I'm not talking about personal Stigmatisation, I'm talking about creating the wrong picture and our citizens having the wrong picture, and that's the matrix of behaviour on Kosovo that's been looking at it for decades in this country. We speak openly of Serbs with KIM, what we do, and we openly tell them what reality is. And you know very well, since you're with KIM, what is the reality. Does anyone in their right mind think that something can be solved or saved by saying 200 thousand times – Kosovo is an inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia? I guess that's what we're talking about here, Mr. Kragovic. We don't need to discuss it. Then, if we do so, we act exactly like a Pristina delegation, who, when they have no proposal, when they cannot agree with anything that is in line with European practice... Then what? So what do we do? Why don't they like how Belgrade is now constructive and has new ideas? You know why? Because they're not used to the situation. They're not used to us being in line with the great forces. They're used to us going against them, to our harm. Now that we're not going to our harm, they're surprised. Now that I say, "You know what, we can talk about everything," it's a provocation. I would disagree and I'm just saying that we're gonna talk about everything, and your resolution makes it possible for us, Mr. Kragovic. I can talk about anything. The second thing is what we're going to do and what we're going to implement, there's your role even more important, but don't insinuate things that don't exist, please. It's not fair to people who are professionals, who go every two weeks to Brussels to negotiate in the interests of this country and their professions, to be mastered by someone. I'm a politician and that's fine. But those people didn't deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54424	Here you go, Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54425	I want, first of all, to point out that I have been an MP in this congregation for a long time, and that for the first time in my life, a clerk pointed out to me how to speak and what to say. It's inappropriate for any clerk. It is also inappropriate for the Prime Minister, not for one official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, did I make these statements at "Blica" on April 23, 2011? Borko Stefanovic: "We are ready to talk about the partition of Kosovo". I asked you about it, not about whether Kosovo is a separate or inseparable part of Serbia's state. You didn't? If you haven't made this statement, deny that you didn't say so. Next – we are free to talk about everything and will never hear from me, it's absolutely unacceptable, it can't be talked about and said... So anything is possible, so it is possible to recognise an independent Kosovo. And that's your ultimate goal, that's what you'll do. With the attempt to, if you can, share before and say that you did something right. You can't do that. You don't have a mandate. Here, in these resolutions, in one and the other, which you are constantly calling upon, and in the Constitution it does not stand. If that stands, I'll eat this right here in front of these cameras. You deceive Serbian citizens because they don't know what it says in these resolutions. In these resolutions, it is clear and loud that you must protect the interests of the Serbian state, rather than deal with some calculator topics, the division of Kosovo, etc. You cannot send a message here all day that it would be better for Serbs to take a ID card from the quasirepublic of Kosovo. For God's sake, what are you talking about? Are you out of your mind? What's he gonna do with that ID? Where's he going to travel? Where's he going? He doesn't have an I.D. on the Republic of Serbia and...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54426	Please, as an MP, you cannot allow yourself to behave like this, to verbalize the contents.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54427	If there's one government official who can hold sermons for me, then I, as a MP, have the right to criticise that government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54428	Please, you've invited a representative of the government and the state and you've suggested that he be here and give answers to your questions. It's a proposal from your parliamentary group. Serbia appreciates that, this home respects that. You cannot address someone you invited to ask questions as an MP and receive appropriate answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54429	You should have warned him before that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54430	Please don't put me in a position to impose sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54431	If I can finish what I wanted. Do I have the right to do that?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54432	Finish it. You've got 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54433	Thank you. I would like to ask another additional question, and in this case it will refer to Mr. Minister, for Lešak – why is it going and talking in northern Kosovo these days that Serbs are supposed to go to some list that organises temporary institutions on KIM, if we are at a session, where he was present, all unanimously decided that Serbs should not respond and should not go to that list and that they should boycott that list? Serbs will go to that list organised by the government of the Republic of Serbia, not by the provisional KIM institutions. Here we have a decision of the Committee where all the MPs who make it voted, and from its political party and all the other MPs, and none of them were against or abstained, and now it's going and going around northern Kosovo and it's advocated that Serbs should be written because it's supposed to be done by an international organisation rather than by temporary institutions in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54434	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54435	Mr Kragovic, not only did you not read the text, but you did not listen to what I said earlier on the statement in "Blica" on Kosovo's division. But here's the third time I've told you again. Do not read the title, Mr Kragovic, the title is a matter of editorial policy. Do you understand me? The title can be what the editor thinks, as long as he doesn't insult public morality, order, peace and law. So I said in the text very clearly and I repeat and now – we are ready to talk about everything, about every topic. We're ready, Mr. Kragovic, to discuss everything. I don't know if you understand the word "talk." That's the first thing. The other thing, you said one false thing, which is very dangerous, because that untruth was told in this high house, which is that I said that Serbs should take ID cards so-called. An independent Kosovo. I never said that, nor could you find it anywhere, nor would I say something like that in my life. But what is a fact, Mr. Kragovic, examine your members south of Ibra and the presidents of your municipalities whose ID cards and license plates they have to give us here. If you think that what we have understood, as a responsible government, is that the policy that you have encouraged, which is exactly what you are talking about – no one can touch anything, do anything, just sit there and somehow survive... That policy has pushed Serbs into Kosovo institutions, Mr Kragovic. That policy forced them to take their documents, Mr. Kragovic. And now we're pulling this out of that situation. They were forced to reject any possibility of making life easier for these people, along with any possible political blindness. Because they have no help from you, they eventually turned to where they had to, to survive. And now, in that situation, you're saying that we told someone to take their ID? Well, ask your members downstairs whose IDs they have. You can talk on TV, but those stories don't work in our public anymore. People know what's going on, especially Serbs in Kosovo. They want answers, they want solutions, they've had enough of those stories. You once told me... I don't even know why this termology is used, because I don't think it's appropriate. Whether I'm a clerk or not, where I work, where I'm constantly employed, it doesn't matter. But I greatly appreciate your work and the work of your committee and I will always respond. I'll give you all the information you want. You know that from the last time we talked and I don't see what the problem is. The problem is, you think we're doing something we don't need. You think you're insinuating. What makes you say that? Based on what? Who told you that? Where did you read that? Where did you see that? Are you moving in the world of facts or in the world of imagination, Mr. Kragovic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54436	I ask all participants in the debate to take care of how they address each other. You know what, if someone has to use a sharp argument, I understand that, but I don't think today's topics are such that it should come to terms. Mr. Kragovic, you have no right anymore, you've used your time. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54437	This is indeed totally inappropriate for a government official to come to Parliament to re-evaluate the MPs and keep them a letter about how they will behave and how they will speak. This has never really happened in Parliament, not from ministers or prime ministers, let alone from the secretary of state. This is a unique case, but well, I'm not wasting my time on what's really so obvious and inappropriate. So, let's finish the telecom sale story. Everything you said today, Mr. Cvetkovic, in favour of the sale of Telekom is really so irrelevant that there is no reason to comment too much. You said that, as the government's first argument on why it's being sold to Telekom, it was that the state is not a good owner anywhere, and that's why all state goods should be sold, in order for private owners to manage them better. We gave you a counterargument, that in many countries of Europe, in the area of telecommunications, the state is a majority owner. We listed Belgium, Finland, Sweden, Norway, Italy, Switzerland, Luxembourg and not to count anymore. So there's no argument that the state can't be a good manager in state companies, especially those that are most profitable. Another argument was that management in state-owned companies where the government is setting up these managers is not good, so Telecom Director Serbia and his team are not good management. That's also not an argument. On the one hand, that management was set up by you, Mr. Cvetkovic, and your party. So if you're saying that management isn't good, then it's your fault that you've made it a bad management. If so, why didn't you change that management, so why didn't you call a competition to get better management, which would better run Telekom Srbija? It can't be an argument to sell the company. On the third hand, and such poor management has managed to make 17 billion profits, the good part of which has entered as a dividend into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Your third argument was that you don't need a profit to get out of state-owned companies, but you need to stay in companies and invest in development. So, why are you pulling him out? The tender condition was that the bidder must offer at least 1.4 billion euros to buy. Telekom Austria has offered 950 million. The task force did not declare the bidder irrelevant, that it did not meet the tender conditions, but approved the negotiations. On what grounds did you grant further negotiations with Telekom Austria if they did not meet the terms of the tender?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54438	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54439	Here, I'll try to answer these questions briefly. First of all, you've given an antithesis that the state is not a good owner and you've cited a few examples. I'm starting to assume that your position is that the state is a good owner, that you stand up for it, and that it should stay in Telekom, which, of course, opens and extends the question – if it's good, why should it stay only in Telekom, which doesn't stay everywhere? Second, you put words in my mouth and said I said management wasn't good. I didn't say that at all. I didn't look back at management at all. On the contrary, I think he's good, which some members of your parliamentary group here have explicitly stated and said that management is excellent. Of course, if he tries to generalize now, as you generalise, it could mean that the management that sets up the state is good. When you combine those two positions, that the state is a good owner and that it should remain as the owner everywhere, and that the management that the state is setting up and that it should always set it up, that is, of course, one of the platforms of communism, the communist society and I can accept it as such, but I can't agree with it. Of course, you can always find in real life exceptions that confirm the rule. As you have cited seven-eight examples where the state has significant participation, I can list you much more where it is not present, where the state retains a minority package. I can also give you a whole series of examples where management is not set by the state, but as a professional chosen in competition, better than those states. That means that this case, where we're lucky to set up management and it turns out he's great, is still an exception to some rule. As far as the offer is concerned, whether it is adequate or not, we have made a condition, we believe that the offer as it is given is not adequate, and of course we will not go to Telecom under the price we have defined, which you mentioned. As regards the legal basis on the basis of which the price is given to be corrected, this legal basis exists in the documentation prepared for tendering and publicly certified. There's a document called "teacher instruction" and there's a number of other documents that were prepared by transaction advisors. One member is said to be able, if any of the offers appear not to meet the criteria set, to make a decision or to suspend the procedure immediately, to declare the tender unsuccessful or to open negotiations. We felt, or the Commission, that, on a proposal from the adviser, it was good to open up the possibility of fixing the offer, which neither means nor implies that we would give up on the position we set. We remain in that position, which will be seen on May 3rd, May 4th, or at the end of this period.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54440	Mr. Lapchev, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54441	When you set up a series of axiomas and give yourself arguments for one conclusion, then of course you'll do whatever you want as a conclusion. Of course, the state should be the majority owner of all those companies where there is profit, Mr Cvetkovic, and we have proved today and talked about more times how much profit Telekom Serbia has and how much the full budget of the Republic of Serbia. Such a national good will not be sold by any normal government, especially by the sole bidder to correct the offer. And not once, but twice you're asking Telekom Austria to fix his offer. And even if he doesn't ask you to extend the deadline, you extend the deadline so they'll supposedly fix their offer. The tender's condition was clear – 1.4 billion euros to buy 51% of Telekom Srbija plus investment. None of the bidders, even the one that answered, Telekom Austria, met the tender conditions, gave no offer of 1.4 billion. How is it possible to accept further negotiations and extend the deadline? Based on what? If that were in the file back then, everyone would have answered. All seven companies that were interested would come forward and bid 100m euros, and then they would bargain with the government whether it would be 300, 400, 500 or a billion. There was absolutely no reason to cancel the tender and to reject Telekom Austria's offer because it is incomplete, absolutely incomplete, and does not meet the conditions of the tender. On the other hand, what if other companies come forward and say, "I'm sorry, we didn't want to give 1.4 billion, and maybe we'd give a billion?" It just didn't say anything that could do it. These companies may be suing the state of Serbia for fraud. On the third hand, you have announced that an offer will be accepted if it is 1.4 billion euros, and "News" finds out that Austrians will fix their offer, but insist on entering the bid and investing. So, it's a small door to entering Telekom Austria in Telekom Srbija.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54442	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54443	As you said, I said no bid would be accepted below 1.4 and I remain on that statement. Do some papers write what anyone will do, it's, of course, their right and I don't know if you want me to go into editorial and other politics now, but I certainly don't want to. So our request is clear and we remain on that request. If that request is met, then the transaction will positively end, if it does not, and that is it. What will these others say, who were willing to give less, that's their problem again. In any case, be assured that no move we made will put us in a position to commit some kind of misdemeanor that would lead us into some kind of litigation tomorrow. That's my answer to the government's position on that matter. I want to comment on a position that you said and which I really heard for the first time, but it's interesting and it says that the state should adopt a strategy that wherever there is profit, it is the majority owner. Since there's a mass of companies that have profits, I don't know if we should predict money in the next budgets so we can buy out those companies that work with profits, or maybe it'd be cheaper to get into some kind of nationalisation so we can pick them all up without spending. Anyway, this is an interesting thesis. I haven't heard from her by now, but she'll be listed as one of the options for a future society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54444	Thank you. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today our government is very sheretically and funnyly...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54446	I'm sorry, the MPs of the SRS have asked for one change, but it's the order we agreed on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54447	Before I ask a question about Telekom, I will ask Mr. Negotiator a question – which policy no longer passes? So for ten years, you've been leading politics, both in KIM and Serbia, and you come to the Assembly and you've been teaching us lessons that ten years after your rule, our policy doesn't go through here! You have a problem, Mr. Stefanovic, with politics, because you would both goats and money, you would both Europe and Kosovo, and that's not working with each other. You just said that your European path is a priority and nothing should be questioned, so I am now going to ask you, to tell us – from the corner of the EU, where Serbia should enter the EU and why, in the context of its European integration, have discussed the borders with Serbia with the Shiparian separatists, and not with you, Mr Borko Stefanovic, the negotiator, on behalf of the state? That's one question. Second question. In one very undosed and untasteful way, you said that the SRS treats someone with separatism. He who is not loyal to the state, Mr. Stefanovic, is a separatist. The one who's not fair, he's a thief. And everyone should have their own name, what they deserve. And since they are dear and kind to you, or are they yours and you are theirs, tell me, is your boss their foreign minister, is your ministry and their ministry or our ministry and their foreign ministry? In the end, who do you negotiate with, since they are ours and you are theirs? So much for Kim. Mr. Cvetkovic, you just waved to the professional public. I accidentally had 300 pages of expert opinion with me today. There are no words here to support your idea of selling Telekom Srbija. I don't know what professional public you're consulting. If that's the one from the City Bank, which you just called for, I'll remind you and the public that in the last ten years, that bank has paid over eight billion dollars a penalty for suspicious and dirty jobs and transactions in such and similar transactions. Talk to the professional public if you have will and determinations, and they'll tell you that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54448	It's been three minutes. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54449	I don't really know what question to answer. If the question is whether or not the expert public supports privatisation to a greater extent, I think it is essential that for the hundredth time I say that there is a general, planetary understanding that the state is not a good owner compared to the owner who is private. And that's where all the conclusions come from. You can find some papers, if someone said this or what, it's okay, but the official, ruling economic theory tells you what I'm saying. I wish that those others, of course they have, I say that there are other socio-political arrangements that feel that the state is better, that it is ideal, etc., but if it were to become a ruling understanding in this country, if we were to return to the construction of a communist society, then you would be absolutely right. I don't think this is a forum, to discuss such fundamental issues as the choice of this country whether it will go into communism or continue to build a market economy. We have defined ourselves as a market economy and in this context are all our actions that are in play here. Let me just remind you, and I can see that there were no words here, although a lot of talk about it in time, about the relationship between political structures and public enterprises, where they experience public enterprises as prey. This is exactly what is one way to get political structures, states, and thus also political structures out of business activities and permission to move forward. In that context, I think that there are countless arguments that speak in the direction I was talking about, and I am also ready to deliver to you the views of that other professional public, that you do not have to read them in front of the session itself, but that you have more time to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54450	Mr. Stefanovic, you have three minutes to complete.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54451	That Kosovo and the EU do not go, I think you are wrong, just because this government has shown results in both fields. And that's more than once said. Another thing is that you may not like these results or even deny that they are results. It's your right, but you can't say we're not doing it. I'd just say we're doing it, just because the Serbian citizens in the election have confirmed that we're doing it. Otherwise, I think it's quite clear that you and I agree that I can't say that separatists are mine or yours – we have the same relationship with separatists, believe me – but the thing is that you can't identify the whole people with such a one, I would say, a very negative one. It's not the whole people's fault. After all, and if anyone commits a crime, no state will deny that man's citizenship. Well, we, both now and at the time of the greatest conflict, have never done it and I don't see why it would be a message to anyone right now. Or are we changing the Constitution then? Therefore, the fact that there is a temporary administration in Kosovo, which is a Resolution 1244, which exists in fact by the international administration, through Unmik and Eulex, which has been through the UN system, does not change our relationship with the province of Kosovo and Metohija, as it does not change how the EU looks at Serbia, in which it is bordered. I will remind you that we and through our answers to the EU questionnaire have made it very clear that we believe that this is the territory of our country. And it won't change, no matter what you say Albania and Montenegro are making separate bilateral agreements. Yes, because they recognised Kosovo's independence. Now you tell me how you think our prime minister is calling the Albanian prime minister and telling him -- you have no right to do that. He has the right from the domain of his personal legislation and his right, and the other thing is that we disagree and that this has serious implications for our relations with these countries. That's true, but you can't blame this government for what some state is doing with an unrecognized state agreement. I don't think that's correct. It's just that this thing isn't going to change. Since 2003, the European Union has known the difference in the European pathway for both Kosovo and Serbia, because it has specificities because of the international administration and Resolution 1244. That is why there are specificities, and that is why we are not talking about visa liberalisation for Kosovo, but they are talking about it. Because of that, and because of 1999, and because of 1981, and in 1962, and I don't know, that I don't list you the years, and since 1912, which you want me to name. We don't need to be unrealistic, very good, and you and I know what we're talking about. The other thing is that we don't like it. It's important that we solve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54452	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54453	Mr. Cvetkovic, it would have been nice if you had stuck to these market logics when you were the director of the Privatisation Agency and the finance minister, and more often when you're Prime Minister, when it comes to a bunch of other public enterprises like the Railways, like those public enterprises where your political friends sit and pub budgets, so when you get into the scale and structure of the costs and losses that these public enterprises are making, to tell us today – why didn't you privatise them for ten years? You, Mr. Cvetkovic, are fighting for the minimum price for selling the most profitable company in Serbia. Well, the one run by market logic, what sells, sells for the highest price. You, Mr. Cvetkovic, can't win a minimum price. You're breaking down to give Telekom a minimum price. Why? Because it didn't make sense to invest further in Telekom. Who was defending them? But they're an element or a model of corporate governance. Who was defending them? They don't have a bonus? They can't pull the loans? You don't have the courage, as a government, to give them guarantees for loans to develop and improve? It's not true, your political interest and the problem is you want to sell Telekom. You should have sold everything else that is controversial and problematic and what really represents a problem for this country, not Telekom. That's your problem, from which you can neither get out, at least clean, if that's what I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54454	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54455	I'll be very brief. Why didn't I manage that logic? I don't understand why you came to the conclusion that I didn't. If you look at the history of the Privatisation Agency, which started in 2002 and here it is today, so for eight or nine years, you'll see that in one year there has been the largest number of privatized enterprises. In one single year, which compared to all others, and before and after, at least twice as many companies privatized. That's the year I was there. I've only been at the Agency for a year, and this has been going on, like I said, ten or eleven years. So I fought completely, and I am aware that private property will be the basis for the development of our society and that it will provide us with a better one. As for the Yata and the Railways, I still don't understand why you think someone is protecting and wants Jat not to privatize. On the contrary, you know there was an attempted sale of the flock and that the tender was unsuccessful. At this point, one strategy has been developed and another attempt is planned. So here you are, if you have anyone interested in your party, but, of course, we're looking for a strategic partner, to guide him and encourage him to participate in the sale of the flock and, be careful, the tender will be open very soon. As far as the Railways are concerned, it is in one restructuring programme that is quite serious, because it is in a rather lagging state, and in an organisational sense, and we are at this point considering how to make the Railways more profitable, not to withdraw any more subsidies, and in this context we are interested in private initiative, but it is not so easy and it is not possible to achieve within a shorter period. Finally, as far as the minimum price is concerned, I think you're under the minimum meaning of something that's small, and we're under the minimum meaning of something that would be called the least. What we've been looking for shows that your estimates of the high profitability of Telekom are actually completely wrong. Because if he were so profitable, to justify that price, then we wouldn't have just one, and that offer that's below that price, but it would be dozens of offers, and we could then choose and make a real transparent procedure. The fact is, for our part, that we have raised this threshold too high, which now shows us that our perceptions about what the value of Telekom may have been different from reality, and what will show the future that is right in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54456	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54457	Mr. Prime Minister, Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, until now, when we discussed Telekom, we were mostly discussing whether it should be sold at all. I think enough arguments have been made, and I don't think it should have been sold at all, but since politics is always being run under the conditions, let's see where we are right now. I'd like to remind you of a few facts. First, a minimum price of 1,400,000 euros was set. If it is considered that, for example, a few years ago, Mobtel was sold for 1,500,000 euros, so the company that is at least three times weaker than Telekom, and that the 1,400,000 euros is equal to eight and a half years of current annual earnings of Telekom, so – that Telekom is not further developed, in eight and a half years it will cover those 1,400,000 euros, then my unquestionable conclusion is, but unfortunately not only mine but also many respected and independent economic experts in this country, that a minimum price is sought. The second is the fact that only one bidder practically appeared, which offered 950 million. So, he offered something that I would gently call a rude offer. It's so low, it's simply uninvited to make such an offer. Then what does the government do? The fact is that it enters into bargaining with such a bidder, even extends its deadline once again, to 15 days, about begging – give at least something, so let's make a deal, give that 1,400,000, directly or indirectly, whatever. You know, when a farmer sells at the potato market, he's with more dignity than this government does selling Telekom. I think the government should have determined and had to establish, protecting the country's reputation, not getting adequate offers and calling the tender a failure, and then opening up a possible new tender. Let me have another sentence. I have no intention of asking Mr. Cvetkovic a question, because I don't see what he can answer. The only question I'd ask him is the domain of personal matters, and they don't belong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54458	Mr. Cvetkovic estimated he had something to say. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54459	I'd just like to give some kind of answer in terms of the findings, because it seems to me that, Mr. Shami, your statement in one part is incorrect, or in two parts. First of all, I don't think it's a good comparison between two types of prices, not just because of the different times in which they came, but simply because of the different percentages that are sold. When it comes to Mobtel, it is sold with 100%, without any obligation, as a newly formed company, of course with a particular portfolio of users. That's one story. You have a situation here that, first of all, you don't sell one company, you sell 51%, not 100%, which, by the way, raises these 1,400,000 to 2,800,000, comparable, and plus when you subtract the debts that are in there, you'll get to the point that these prices might be roughly similar. I didn't count, it's done over some multiple, that we don't get into these professional calculations now, but certainly is the fact that there's no place to compare these two digits, because they refer to different percentages, different situations and different times. Secondly, I like the comparison you gave with the farmer who sells potatoes at the market and I'm very interested, asking myself this way after your exposure – to have the peasant go to the market, offer potatoes and return home without a kilo of sold potatoes, and then it comes to the conclusion that the price he offered was too low. So that's about what you can get out of your exposure, and that's why I don't think we could still take that as true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54460	Here you go, Mr. Shami, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54461	There is one difference – the peasant sells his potatoes, and you do not sell your Telekom, but the state Telekom. That's one thing. Secondly, your math is poor. Do you know what is the difference on the market (it looks like I have to teach you that) between 51% and 49%? Four times. Because at 49% you don't own a company, and 51% you rule a company. And even if that math is like that, that 51% needs to be multiplied by almost two to get 100%. You're not good at math again, because you're going to get 2,800,000 to four and a half billion, which is three times Mobtel, and Telekom's worth more. I'll tell you something else. You, as the public little knows, in the last year, after offering Telekom for sale, transferred to Telekom all those telecommunications that were underground and owned by the Post until a year ago. And it became a Telecom property, which, by nature, raises the price of Telekom by about 40%. All the optical cables, everything that goes underground, you've transferred it to Telekom property. You know what, I'll end up with it. Do you at least scribble a little bit about what's going to happen one day?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54462	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54463	I don't think it's necessary for us to develop this calculation here right now and count two and two. I'd just like to, and you're right, so I'd like to adjust this case with the peasant a little bit to what you said. So the example is that the farmer wasn't at the market, but he gave his friend to sell it to his friend, so when he came back and said, "Here's nothing I sold," and then he said, "That's because I told you the price that's too low, so nobody wanted to buy it." As far as this other guy is concerned, I'm doing my job honestly with a deep conviction that he's useful, without any personal or any other interest. I'm totally asleep, and I'll sleep like that in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54464	Mr. Vladan Jeremic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54465	Thank you. Well, it seems to me that, listening to today's debate, there's really something that needs to be changed in Telekom, because all of this looks like that deaf phone game. Even for that price offered for Telekom, I don't think you've made it here or the public to convince that it's something that's real. So, in our opinion, it's about an economically devastating decision. You didn't, of course, convince that part of the public that looks at it from that legal aspect, because we know that even under our Constitution, foreigners can't possess well of general interest. Of course, we find it unacceptable to sell a company like this at the time of the economic crisis, but that's all that's likely to serve you in some kind of argument, and in public and all the others is to assess whether that's the case. What the data can only show, these are already some colleagues and amounted, is that the prices of telecommunications services in countries where operators are sold significantly more than in Serbia, that the subscription is twice as high, etc. What I would like to hear eventually is – why Telekom Austria? Telekom Austria is similar to the size of a fixed network of Telekom Srbija, which is one of the indicators, in Austria, the number of fixed telephone lines per 100 inhabitants is 39, while in Serbia it is 41. This particular number of fixed lines is also the best indicator of the development of the country's telecommunications infrastructure and is based on it to require certain investments and provide significantly higher capacity. The second thing, Telekom Austria's responsibility, both in absolute and relative terms, is greater than that of Telekom Srbija, etc. Those few experts who advocate the sale of Telekom mention as one of the arguments and the influence of ruling parties on the setting up of company administrations and the fact that the parties illegally draw money from Telekom. Now you who advocate this sale think these illegal actions can only be prevented by selling this state-owned, successful and strategically important company. But what's interesting is that Telekom Austria is obviously not going to solve this problem, because they are, by chance, not immune to these party interferences. At the end of last year, a prominent Austrian magazine published findings that Telekom Austria was via pi-ar and lobbyist, or as we say - consulting firms, directing money into several Austrian parties and pockets of individuals, and this is the process from the '90s until 2009. "Hocheger" and "Valora" are companies that... (President: Time. Is that even familiar to you... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54466	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54467	I understand that the question is – why Telekom Austria? You have two types of sales. One kind of sale is when you go to direct negotiations and another kind of sales is what we call transparent, when you sign up some kind of ad and say – please, whoever wants to participate, let him answer. We are against these direct negotiations, because they give birth to corruption. As soon as you have direct negotiations, the question immediately arises whether the price is adequate, that you didn't agree, etc. That's why this process went in the direction of opening this public tender, a public invitation, and to say -- here you are, everyone who wants to participate in buying our company that we offer, and you're strategic partners, so you're dealing with this activity, you're not some investment funds that have money but have no experience, go ahead, pick up, so who's gonna be the winner, by not selling it below a price. So it was procedure. It is simple to understand, simple and completely excludes the possibility of corruption. In the end, we only heard from Telekom Austria and you can't ask us now – why Telekom Austria and not Telekom France. Telekom France also participated in those previous actions, took tender documentation, visited Telekom, conducted talks, calculations, etc. And he called us on the phone and told us -- you know what, we're very interested in Telekom Srbija, but the price you're looking for is too high for us and we can't participate in it. That's why not Telekom France. If they had come forward, we would have been happy, too, and we would have talked to them. The point of my answer is that we didn't choose who we were going to talk to and who our potential partner would be, but simply one procedure, which is how I explained it, led to Telekom Austria being the one we're talking to right now. Just because we're talking, that's because they're supposed to fix it doesn't mean we're gonna give up our basic attitude that we said. So, May 3rd is close, May 4th is close and we'll know where we are very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54468	Here you go, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54469	Even if I accept what you said, then I really don't understand it, and that's the continuation of the little question -- if that's how things were with Telekom Austria, then why this extension of deadlines, repair of offers, etc.? Then, simply, at the beginning, it was nice to accept that offer as it was, and not to give any additional deadlines to improve the offer and I don't know what it is, and the question is how, after all, it's all going to end.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54470	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54471	Let me tell you -- that was one legitimate option. When you get an offer that's inappropriate, you have more options. The first option is to say - even though it's inappropriate, it's the best I could do, I accept it. The second option was – it's rude, I don't want to talk about it, and I don't want to see them again. The third option is – the offer is bad, but there may be an opportunity to be better; that is, not only to be better, but to be as we imagined. We chose this third option. By choosing that third option, we have in no case prejudged that we will accept the offer as it was given. I'm telling you again, we set the criteria and we said what the price is; if we get that price, we'll end up a positive transaction; if we don't, we won't. So this is not the extension of the deadline, as some insinuate, so that we come out at a lower price, so let's say, we tried everything, we couldn't get a billion and four hundred, here we gave for a billion. No, it's not an idea at all, and I'm telling you again that we're going to stay in the position we've given.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54472	Thank you. I give my word to Vice President Gordani Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54473	Two questions. First, it is for the Prime Minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic – to explain to us in the simplest possible way who and how he has the income, profits, profits of Telekom now, in the status of what he is, and who and how he would have had in the case of sales on the basis of the conditions offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what is the difference, as well as your personal assessment of what will happen in case Telekom's sale still fails? For Mr Borko Stefanovic, the question – does the team leading the dialogue have access to reports from non-governmental organisations with KIM dealing with human rights and human rights violations, are their reports available to you, and are there perhaps representatives of the non-governmental sector from KIM territory, as well as, if possible, your personal assessment of the most important results of these reports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54474	The word is Prime Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54475	I'll try to answer this question, but that answer has two parts. One part is how it has been so far and the other part is that it will be in the future, regardless of whether transactions will succeed or not. How'd it go so far? So far, the profit that has been realised was 80% of the state of Serbia and 20% of the Greek OTE. There was one rule, that out of the total profit, let's say that we left 50 dinars to Telekom, because it has to be renewed, etc., and we share these other 50 dinars in proportion to 8.2 between the Republic of Serbia and the Greek OTE, so that two dinars went to OTE, and eight dinars went into the budget. It was a model that was valid with last year. We are now at a specific moment, when the situation is changing in the future, independent of the transaction. Why is the situation changing? It is changed because of the open process of sharing free shares with citizens and employees and what we will practically give about 22% of the value of Telekom, of which 15% of the citizens and 6-7% (don't exactly hold my word, but let's say that's 7%) for the employees. So in total, if there wasn't a transaction, we'd have one tripartite structure, where you have a Greek partner with 20, you have 22 one-volume citizens and the state would stay with the others, say, 57-58. In such a constitution, if profits were to be divided in the next period, then all those present in this structure would have to in some way benefit from this gain, so that the profit would, by definition, be significantly reduced by the state. Even if an identical model were applied, then we'd get half of us, and that would make it impossible to develop, because those sexes weren't enough. That is why we felt it was much better to now go for the sale of Telekom, especially since real expectations are that in the coming years he will not be able to achieve high rates or growth of any income or profit, because another serious fixed operator appears and because the market begins to configure itself differently, with or without a strategic partner. If there is no transaction, we will, once the transaction has been announced whether or not the transaction has been made, come up with one plan of what and how to continue with Telekom, respecting the fact that the state is now significantly reduced in its ownership due to the sharing of free shares, where the third, conditionalally, player appears, even though it is millions of people with small shares.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54476	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54477	Of course, we have conducted a series of talks with NGOs that are in Belgrade, but also with some with KIM and in preparation for this dialogue, and during the dialogue itself, we do so regularly, so we are conducting consultations with both political parties and the media and NGOs, especially with those who gather families of the missing, families of people whose fate we still do not have the answers and people who can adequately present a human rights event in the area of the KIM itself. What we've seen is that the problems move in two directions. These are problems in the wider context of freedom of movement and freedom concerning the functioning of communities on KIM, and another problem is the issue of war crimes. We will put both topics in one of the most important places in this dialogue and we will insist on it. It's still not on the agenda, but people need to be aware that we're going to talk about it, as well as about the property of our businesses and our physical faces, the property of the church, as we're going to discuss issues concerning the missing and their fate. What's symptomatic is, I'm very sorry, that I have to say that the level of penetration and courage, I dare say, of NGOs in Belgrade and those in Pristina can't really compare, unfortunately, yet. I think the courage and social correction that our NGOs here in Belgrade are supposed to be an example in the region and I think we've gone very far in that sense as a society, thus confirming our maturity. Unfortunately for me, that has not yet been achieved in Pristina. So far, corruption and issues are still concerned about disrupting their imaginary image of an independent state. Like when someone chooses a president, say, or something like that, and then they organize social actions that kind of point to that problem. What they're dealing with is issues of war crimes, these are issues of responsibility for crime, and these are issues to help families learn the fate of their loved ones who have disappeared. So I think we should insist on that, too, but I think that to a large extent the non-governmental sector in Kosovo can help, with its greater engagement and greater courage. I wish there were some strong NGOs and strong individuals as there are in Belgrade and they would help make the process go faster and better.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54478	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54479	An additional question for Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Assessment of reactions to the monopoly – yes or no? Is there or does not exist in the case of favourable development and successful transactions in the sale of Telekom, for two reasons. The population of Serbia is extremely sensitive to the subject of monopoly, regardless of whether it is telecommunications or commercial networks or the purchase of raw materials or whatever, because they do not feel sufficiently protected from those who consider themselves to be representatives of the monopoly that dictate the prices of basic supplies or the price of municipal services or the price of the purchase of any means necessary for life and do not have the impression that the government of the Republic of Serbia is sufficiently concerned with the protection of the monopoly, i.e. the "wilding" price when it comes to any monopoly. We have learned from the media and the report that a kind of correction will be established, or that it is ongoing, so I would like you to share it with us if you have any further information or your estimates. I will also make a brief personal note of the comments I received from citizens and journalists – it seems that only sessions where parliamentary issues or current topics are in Serbia, where the government should be resolved, boring, say people, so I would ask my fellow opposition to put an end to the boredom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54480	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54481	The answer to the monopoly question would be next – Telekom Srbija is a monopoly. In fixed telephony 98% of the market is covered by a monopoly. He's a monopoliest whether there's a transaction or not. So if someone buys it tomorrow, it'll be a monopoliest, as long as this other operator doesn't come, say, at 50%, which is a question of how many years it's going to be. So here is not the controversial existence of a monopoly. It certainly exists. I know that Telekom Austria is very often trying to disqualify itself because of its high involvement in mobile phones, because it already has VIPs, so now this will come from Telekom, so it will come to 70%, but it is forgotten that it already has 98%. So if we're talking about the existence of a monopoly, 98% is more than 70%. So there's a monopoly. What's specific here is that this is a branch or industry, however you want, that you can't get into without a license, and when you have a branch with a license, you basically have a small number of players. Practically, a large number of them or almost all have significant market participation. Theoretically, if your market is 100%, and you have two players, then they are ideally 50-50. In any other case, you have one with half a majority. Thus, the monopoly is not controversial, or, as it is said, the dominant position is not controversial. Here's the question of whether the monopoly bearer will abuse that dominant position. The answer to that question is in our legislation, where you have the Competition Protection Commission. Let me remind you, she's been elected here and it's a body independent of the government. So it is an independent regulatory institution tasked with protecting competition, which in particular means sanctioning any behaviour that Telekom Serbia would have done as a monopoly using its monopoly position. The commission has a serious task, but we have recently given it serious rights. It also has the right to punish financially, to impose criminal measures, and not only to give warnings, etc. We as Government, of course, support the work of this commission, primarily in terms of its independence, but we respect the decisions it will make. If you ask in principle how the government will fight monopolies, here it is obvious, from my explanation you understand that it is not a matter of government, but of this commission which is for this purpose and founded and, of course, it will be this main kind of fight where the abuse of dominant position will be sanctioned, and the Government will, for its part, market mechanisms, through interventions of commodity reserves etc. put pressure on them, especially when it comes to food prices, that they may be lower than they could be if there are cartel agreements and agreements. The commission will also protect competition and punish it. The first sentences have already been imposed. I don't want to mention companies, so it wouldn't be negative right now, but I want to say that it's a relative newspaper and that in the next period it should be expected that there will be more and more action in that context, that is. More and more monopoly suppression.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54482	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54483	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister and Minister, it is good that this session on Telekom is held with delay, because Serbian citizens should be clearly told what Telekom means for them, how it is sold and where the money comes from that sale. It doesn't matter that the DSS is the initiator of this session, or that the DSS launched the "Stop Selling Telekom" action and collected over 100,000 signatures, but is the main message – what will happen to Telekom Serbia? Many discussions will happen again, many things will happen again, but it is important that we come out with a clear conclusion and a clear goal that Telekom Serbia should not be sold. That's the basic message. For what? Because it's a resource that we just borrowed from our children. They gave it to us for use, to exploit it, to build it up and give it back to them, so that they could lend it to other generations. Otherwise, Telekom Srbija, as you all know, is a leader in the region when it comes to telecommunications. The revenues, we heard here, about 17 billion or 170 million on an annual basis, or, when a loan is returned to buy Telekom Srpski and an operator in Montenegro, that income will be doubled in 2013, over 300m euros, which is important, and should be taken into account. We in Telekom see our development component, the development component of Serbia. We expect many experts to stay here in Serbia, not abroad. You know, Mr. President, that Serbia comes first in a brain drain. Mrs. Verica Barac, president of the Anti-Corruption Council, said Telekom is being sold illegally, that the tender has been fixed and that many foreign companies have given up applying to this competition and that there is only one company left, and that is the Austrian VIP, and therefore the woman and today has major problems. There were also stories here that the sale of Telekom violates the Constitution, Article 85, as well as many laws, such as the Law on concessions and the Law on Privatisation. That's what the lawyers say, we can quote them. You say it's completely different, but the fact is the lawyers are right. My question is – did the government decide to post-poly sell Telekom Srbija, as we saw in the discussion that you had already determined how you would spend the funds from the sale of Telekom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54484	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54485	The government did not decide to sell it post-poo, but to sell it at least at the minimum price it gave.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54486	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54487	Thank you for your response. I'm asking you if any reference houses have determined the extent of Telekom Srbija's market assessment. We had a statement from an MP here in the bench, at a time when free shares were shared, that 80% of Telekom was worth six billion dinars. Is that true? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54488	Here you go. The Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54489	There is a reference house that has established an assessment. I can't tell you that for the duration of the tender, but I promise to give you May 4th... I can't tell you because we're still negotiating, but I'm gonna deliver that price to you on 4 May, and the price you're talking about is absolutely pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54490	The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54491	Thank you. Given that we are also talking today about the motives of selling Telekom, the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to sell Telekom, a company that makes huge profits and revenues to the budget, regardless of the picture of profitability trying to bend a little. After this second, extended deadline, they'll probably come true. On the other hand, in Serbia, we have a large number of public enterprises that are the biggest losers. Out of 590 public companies, only a dozen of them operate without loss. According to figures from March this year, their losses have reached four billion euros and, while losses are growing, the state is doing nothing to prevent the boastful behaviour of individual executives. We all remember well, it is impossible to forget, it was an SRS initiative to examine the case of Nikola Tesla Airport and the sharing of astronomical bonuses to the director and management, and there are other numerous affairs related to the management of public enterprises. Also, at this time of economic crisis, the highest-income public enterprises paid salaries higher than the republican average. In some, up to two and a half times as big as, say, the Yata case. As for the control of these companies, control should be done by board members, who are, by the way, party personnel, whose excessive fees we also had the opportunity to talk about in this assembly, so I'm not going to repeat that now. Also, control is being carried out by the DRI, which we know is, with real work, started two years ago, so because of its capacity, it's impossible to control just all businesses. Some of the public enterprises do not even have the obligation to submit financial reports to the competent ministries and the government. My question is: does this government have any plan and strategy to solve the accumulated problems in public enterprises that have been dealing with losses for years? Another question – which funds will cover the losses of public enterprises in 2011 and their accumulated losses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54492	The Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54493	First, let me say that your findings regarding the gaps in the budget, etc. They're not true. I've already said it, but it seems you need to repeat it more than once. We have no problem with the current republican budget. At this point, we even have over 800m euros waiting for certain payments that follow us and which are practically some kind of budget reserve that stands on the side. So much for whether it means Telekom - sales or not. No, it's not a problem in money. There's a strategic guy's problem here. As far as your question is concerned, and I understand that the focus has moved from Telekom to other public enterprises, I would tell you briefly, regardless of what is the subject of the session, that you are right that there are around 550 public enterprises, but the largest number of these public enterprises, 90 percent, are local public enterprises. You know there are about 170 municipalities and each municipality has at least one, two or three, and now these are the public enterprises that are formally run in the register. As far as the Republic is concerned, she's got a dozen. These are the companies you mentioned – Jat, Railway, EPS, Telekom etc. So the Republic is very closely monitoring the situation in these public enterprises, real strategies, etc. When it comes to local public enterprises, it's a matter of local self-government, where we're willing to help them, but, at the very least, local self-government needs to worry about it. I believe you have some councilmen at the bar, so you could go where you have them to ask about the situation with public enterprises at that level. What I expect to happen in the next relatively fast period is that there will be a law on public property, where public property will descend to lower levels. In this context, a decision will be taken on what will happen to public enterprises, whether it will also formally move on to ownership of local self-government (but this is a matter to be discussed), and in that case it will be completely not only controlled, but also directly managed by the locals. They're under the authority now, the Republic government gives only general guidance, but they're actually the main problems at the bar, and they're over 90% of this number you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54494	Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54495	Thank you, Madam President. I suppose if Mr. Prime Minister took a look at the record, he'd see that I didn't mention any hole in the budget. So, you were talking about something I didn't say, but okay. As far as public enterprises are concerned, I would like to point out that the state is helping public enterprises by issuing guarantees for loans. It is hundreds of millions of euros and we have had opportunities to talk about them already when they were confirmed in this assembly. It also helps through subsidies. Over 30 billion dinars of subsidies were planned from the budget this year. It's interesting that railways should get 16 billion and 40 million, according to the Budget Law, in this year, and more than 12 will go for profits. That's the way business can't be considered right. As for whether or not we have committees in Serbia, I am proud to say that the SRS in the Leskovec City Assembly has the largest committee group and that committee group is closely monitoring the work of all public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54496	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54497	First, I apologize if I misunderstood you, but you must have misunderstood me too that I asked you if you had any councilmen. I know it's safe to have them, but I simply said that through them you can inform yourself of the situation at the bar. By the way, I agree with you and the government's goal is to reduce the subsidy and make these public enterprises work on a much more solid basis. We have the exact same attitude here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-27-0.u54498	The honourable MPs, since there are no more interested in the list of elected MPs who want to ask a parliamentary question before we finish today's work, allow Prime Minister Cvetkovic, Mr Stefanovic, Minister Bogdanovic and Markovic and their associates to thank for their participation in the work, especially for very competent answers. So we end up working in Dan to answer parliamentary questions about the current topic. I thank the MPs for actively participating in the work. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, we will continue our work tomorrow, April 28th, at 4:00 p.m., by asking parliamentary questions to the government, and that on May 5th, at 10.00 p.m., we will continue the work of the session. Thank you, and I want those who will eventually not be here tomorrow for a beautiful first-class holiday.
