ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55851	Today we have a proposal, a draft law amending the Excise Act. The reasons for the adoption of this law are the further gradual harmonisation of excise policy with EU regulations and standards and the provision of a more stable inflow of excise duties on oil derivatives into the republican budget. A few practical figures, I can tell you, it's about equating excise duty on oil derivatives. It is proposed to pay excise oil derivatives at the following amounts: all types of motor gasoline 49,50 dinars and all kinds of diesel-fuels 37 dinars per litre. Key, here, with this new law, we achieve some of the most important practical things. First and foremost, it is our obligation on our European path to bring an excise policy into line with EU standards. So let's give equal opportunities to everyone. True, the increase in excise duties will gradually lead to an increase in fuel prices. At the same time, however, there is a strengthening of our republican budget, which will allow us to have a positive impact on kindergartens, schools, pensioners and other recipients of this type of assistance. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55852	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55853	Thank you, Madam President, Article 27. Rules of Procedure. The respected minister without portfolio, Mr. Ugljanin, read one of the prepared materials. I simply ask that the Assembly and the public be not confused, this is not the draft law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, as the minister said, but rather the bill, because we are here not discussing "the drafts", but "the proposals". I don't think, as trivial as it may be, it doesn't matter if we don't make a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55854	Well, you know, you can't think of a lapus as the reason for hurting the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure can be done by holding a session. Obviously, it wasn't, but if you're not satisfied, in the voting day, we can come forward. (National MP Radojko Obradovic, from the post: There is no need. Don't you? Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee or the Committee on Finance want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) Mr. Sinisha Stamenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Associates, the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises, which we are discussing today under an urgent procedure, is, in essence, a binding act, because excise duties cannot be solved by a sublegal act, and that is one of the basic reasons why we are going to adopt a new legal solution. The elements of the public revenue system and policies to be regulated by law, as well as the changes and additions of these elements, must be resolved through comprehensive legal solutions, which then open a number of other measures to be implemented in the context of various transactions in all public administration bodies. The harmonisation of provisions relating to the specific taxation of excise duties on oil derivatives, which are often changed in terms of world prices, then the type and quality of oil derivatives, again opens the need to reconciling the full structure of comparison of oil derivatives with all EU standards, as the minister said. Harmonisation of EU excise policy with Serbia's regulations and standards is neither easy nor naive work, but the long-term most responsible activity on the plan to reduce all occurrences of the grey economy in the transport of oil products and, normally, a huge job in terms of more sustainable security of a stable inflow of excise assets on derivatives in the republican budget. The PUPS Group fully supported the Excise Act, "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 101/10, which entered into force on 1.1.2011, when all the amounts of excise duty on motor gasoline and diesel fuels were prescribed, and whose price depended directly on the type and quality of those derivatives. The reaction of consumers, importers and distributors of gasoline and petroleum products required that we create the most favourable framework for all entrants in the production and transport of oil products in order to create the same conditions on the market in the Republic of Serbia. And the PUPS Group then supported these efforts, as well as respecting the requirement for a new regulation of the same amount of excise duties on all types of diesel fuels and all kinds of diesel fuels. We remind you that the proposed equalisation of excise duty on all types of motor gasoline, such as EVRO BB 98, EVRO Premium BMW 95, as well as the EVRO diesel, as a uniformly determined price when the legal and technical compliance of all the provisions of the law was carried out and therefore we voted in favour of this law. The amendments to the Excise Act do not deviate from the communal requirements regarding the level of minimum excise duties on petroleum products, but it is a fact that the Excise Act does not provide for an excise burden on natural gas, which is also used as motor fuel and for gas cars. Amendments and additions to the Law now prescribe minimum levels of taxation that apply to all motor fuels. Annex I in Table A, B and C are defined as the minimum excise duties in euro per thousand liters, i.e. a thousand kilograms of gigajoule: for lead gasoline 421, for unleaded petrol 359, for light diesel fuel 330, for kerosene 330 and for liquid oil gas 125, i.e. for natural gas 2.6 euros. This law corrects the regulation of the minimum level of excise duty applicable to products used as motor fuel for industrial and commercial purposes and, above all, for agriculture, for forestry, for fish farming, for public works, for stationary motor engines and for other fixed plants. Let's add that under the Excise Taxation Act, lodge-oil and electricity are not subject to excise taxation through this law. The amendments and additions to the Excise Act are sufficient for the normative arrangement of the bill, from its adoption to the period of full-fledged EU member status. The PUPS Group has no amendments to the amendment to the Amendments and Supplements Act, given that this bill has definitely resolved all the elements of the public revenue system and policy in this area, as well as that the regulation of tax-legal matter is now making a major contribution to full legal certainty, with the maximum provision of transparency in the conduct of a tax policy that creates equal rights, but also equal obligations for all entities in the application of the tax system rights, through excise duties. In the voting day, the PUPS Parliamentary Group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55856	Thank you. MP Cedomir Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55857	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, an interesting debate, very interesting, and I think it will be funny for moments because, Mr. Ugljanin, you are in an incredible position. You can't be the speaker of parliament at this point in the agenda. That was seen, among other things, from what you said. What do you have to do with this nonsense that was passed on to parliament in June, six months after we suggested not to make such flagrant mistakes and does not endanger the threatened market in Serbia anyway, and all to the harm of the people living in this country? Mr. Ugljanin, you can be a good talker on the subject, say, amending the law on the financing of local self-government that abolishs the transfer of municipalities. We are very interested in how you, as part of the ruling coalition, can agree that Novi Pazar is financed from incomes generated on the basis of income tax, when 70% of the working-age population in Pazar has no job. On that subject, you can be a talker. You can be a talker on the topic of subsidies in agrarian, because subsidies have been lifted for the mountain-mounted area, but on the topic of excise policy you can't be our talker. Let's start from the beginning. It's an incorrect explanation. The law has nothing to do with Serbia's ambition to harmonise excise policy and its fiscal moves with EU directives. The amendments to this law are, as well as any other changes, unfortunately due to EU pressure, which is more concerned about the interests of Serbian citizens than the government itself, including you as its minister. It wasn't you, Mr. Ugljanin, who came to parliament because the citizens of the New Market paid unwarrantedly expensive gasoline and diesel fuel, but you came here because you were forced to press from Brussels to do so. What's this about? It's about favouring Gazprom in Serbia. In December, they told you that such a law cannot pass, that it will be brought down in Brussels, because it is contrary not to European directives but to the SAA, which we have signed and it is very clear. It infringes the Transitional Trade Agreement for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, in Articles 22 and 37. We have to choose whether we're going to Moscow or we're going to Brussels. Since you obviously like the "good morning, Charlie" policy on all four sides, this is the end of it, and it's not true that this doesn't cost anything. Costs, will cost your voters in Novi Pazar, will cost those farmers who blocked Serbia for seven days until the agriculture minister beat them by accepting all their conditions. We do not intend to agree to such a thing, but rather, we want to criticise you and, in such a way, to send a message to society in time to think for themselves when they go out to the elections. What did you do? You decided in December to favour the oil industry of Serbia, which is not owned by the Republic of Serbia, but owned by the Russian Federation, by introducing a higher burden through excise measures on all other petrol and diesel producers, except the oil industry of Serbia, on the territory of all Serbia. What did that lead to? It led to different prices. It has been artificially made more expensive than any other fuel coming out of Serbia's Oil Industry. The quality was more expensive by artificially through excises being additionally burdened. Here's a bill of law that we passed in January by the President of Parliament, after six months the government comes with amendments to the law, but not in this way that we asked for, by reducing excise duties on those fuels that have been unwarrantedly made more expensive, no, it raises excise duties on this poorer fuel as well. By whose, that, the pocket of the government, is that the extent of the impact? According to the citizens' pocket, your voters in Novi Pazar, 60% of the pump fuel price is VAT and excise tax. We pay for the most expensive oil and gas in Europe, 500 dollars is a thousand cubic metres of intervention gas that we pay. Why are we paying at the intervention price? Because we don't have a finished gas storage facility. Why don't we have the gas warehouse finished? Because it's not in the interest of a Russian partner to finish it, because it's better to sell it for $500 than to sell it for 370 as much as he normally offers us, while offering the Germans 150 and the Croats for 280. There's your problem. How are you going to start a business when you have three times as expensive energy as our competition? Is that how it has to be? He doesn't have to. Why did you decide to take 110 million more unwarranted than Serbian citizens without, say, taking that money from the oil industry of Serbia that exploits oil and gas with a 3 per cent mineral rent in Serbia, while in Russia it is 60 per cent. It's five times bigger in Romania. What's to happen, so your government starts to think about the interests of people living in this country, and not, say, those who came to Serbia to make money here with extra-profits that can't come true on any other market? That's the question. Let's see what the excise is like in Romania. Akcisa in Romania is 38 Euro-centi, Bulgaria 36, Macedonia 37, Spain 40, Montenegro 45, but why do we have the most, Mr. Ugljanin? We have 50 Euro cents. Why is that? In Austria 48, Croatia 44, Slovenia 40. Are we the richest? Why is that? Let's connect it to some other measures of your government. We understand this, above all, as a consequence of the lack of other sources of resources and, on the other hand, the great commitment that the Government has to society. Well, if that's the case, if this is the only way for the state to finance itself, then give us a strategy, a vision, a plan, how we're going to solve these problems in the future. You can't let that happen if we're yelling skin off the back of people living in this country. Well, you can't be so gallant because you're looking for some coalition comfort you need, so you're paying for the support of a party or a few parties, say, with a catastrophic concept of decentralisation. What does that look like? Here people need to understand that the state has no money, except for the one that makes it through this kind of abnormal income and tax burden, and, on the other hand, this state that doesn't have money agrees with the concept of decentralisation that does not release any liabilities to that country, but it reduces the miserable incomes that are insufficient for its functioning. What will happen to the New Market when your transfers from the Republic are lifted? Well, of course they do, but we'll talk about it when it comes. It's clear, and a thousand euros for "action," but that's no longer how it works. So, Mr. Ugljanin, let's have a nice talk about this law. Who's gonna answer? Who will be responsible for the damage suffered by Serbian citizens? For six months, they paid an unwarrantedly high excise rate on higher-quality fuels. Now at the level of quality fuel rises unquality. Well, why don't you let the market form clear criteria and then start running that kind of fiscal policy on these criteria? Where are our competent ministers? We don't have a finance minister, we don't have a government anymore, we don't have a prime minister. The Prime Minister was here on Friday. So he had time for the Serbian parliament of enterprises, but for Serbian MPs there is no time, for us then he had no time and no time today. Who's going to answer this? What is it you need to respect? First, you have to define a methodology that will return the funds to the people to which they were taken away. Well, with this kind of policy, you're directly holding yourself back in the ambitions that you point out. If we want to have an efficient economy, we have to unload it, not choke it with these measures. Take a look at the explanation that states the reason for the law's passing. The main reason for the adoption of this law, i.e. the objective that the law aims to achieve, is to bring the provisions relating to taxation of oil derivatives tax with EU standards. When did we find out about those standards? Did someone in parliament say that these standards exist when the law was passed in December? That's what we did. Well, how much is this society costing this ex-post mind - from Kosovo through The Hague, the privatisation of NIS, free actions, what are you doing now, what are you doing with the Party Funding Act, the Law on selecting MPs?- I'm sorry. Let's talk to each other sometime before some decisions are made. All day long here in parliament, we've been watching what we're going to do with the law that the government sent us, with the party's funding law, the law that obliges the party to take 150 guarantees from the banks in the election campaign, which is impossible, with all the other problems we talked about yesterday. Of course, we can't support this law, I'll tell you why. Instead of dropping the excises, you've raised the excises. Gas will be more expensive for 4.5 dinars, it'll go to 49, diesel to 37 dinars, it's the most invaluable. Instead of putting them down, you raised them. We can't support this. And anyone who sits in a car and goes to a gas station should be aware of the fact that he's funding incompetent power. With such practice one must break in Serbia! Someone has to answer for this, they have to answer for that kind of nonsense that led us to a correspondence with Brussels where we ask Brussels what is perfectly clear in advance – whether these are breaking free market norms or not. Of course they're breaking. If they break, who's in charge? No one in Serbia. That's what we don't like. The idea of changing the law in this way for us is additionally unacceptable, because we have fully defined a different procedure through the bill on amendments to the Act of Accessors. We think it's in your interest, not because you're going to vote for this, because it's a coalition order. You, within your coalition, establish some relationship that will eventually lead society to the fact that the ruling coalition has run a coalition policy so that it has destroyed itself, because this is no longer a supporter, and that is not our interest. Our interest, if we're talking about LDP, is a stable political scene in Sandzak. She can't be stable if people's life interests are at stake there, and they're threatened every day, even with this law. That poor woman in Sandzak is going to pay for both gas and diesel now, and that doesn't have to be the case. Definitely she has no more money than Austrians or Germans, and there are more burdens than in Austria and Germany. That's why there's no support for the law. I don't know what you've been charged with, so you've agreed to sit here and endure our 20 minutes, plus 13 criticisms, and then go further in line with your obligations. Once again I would like to read the fuel price structure and in such a way, I am confident, crucially compromising this initiative as completely unacceptable. Accize – Romania 0.38, Bulgaria 0.36, Macedonia 0.37, Spain 0.42, Slovenia 0.41, Montenegro 0.45, Hungary 0.45, Croatia 0.44, Austria 0.48, Serbia. Three times the average salary in Slovenia is higher than in Serbia, but it is significantly cheaper. There are fewer burdens and state interventions. That is why we do not support this, and there will be opportunities to discuss NIS, the very bad effects of NIS privatisation, the fact that we cannot come out of it, confusion and the direct conflict of agreements that we have made with both Brussels and Moscow.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55858	Minister Ugljanin has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55859	I've listened to you very carefully. There's a folk saying, "We can't have goats and money." One of the key objectives of excise policy is the protection of the domestic market. When that decision was made about you, as you say, non-quality oil derivatives, it was done to protect the domestic market, however, it doesn't make us do this. We, as a Government, are obliged to harmonise our excise policy with the EU. That's the first thing. The other thing, your comparisons you gave for the neighboring countries, I can give you an example. When the fuel was in the former Yugoslavia mark, there were two marks in Turkey, but that's why Turks make 2,000km a year. The next thing you know, the funds of the increase that it relates to, I think you can say that you, as political party MPs, can influence where the funds will be directed – these funds refer to the resolution of certain problems, as you said, in the pension fund, child protection and other users and help. So, as far as excise policy is concerned, the initiative is yours to influence it anyway. We'll listen carefully to your proposal. I'm here to hear and pass on your proposal to the government. Generally, the government did not initiate this blackmail procedure, but because it is itself responsible and is obliged to agree on an excise policy with the EU. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55860	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55861	Mr. Ugljanin, if you expect us to agree with the idea that 110m euros, taken from Serbian citizens over the past six months, will be spent without rebalancing, will not be agreed. Therefore, budget rebalancing -- 110m euros in the budget. Then you can't tell farmers there's no money, and you can't make 110m euros here past the budget completely unplanned, because it wasn't a projected income when the budget was adopted. It's not in the budget. The second thing, the roads in Turkey are not made because of the fuel price, be sure of that. Here, roads are not made by financing from these revenues, in Serbia roads are made, as you have seen, from the World Bank's loan. And before we start making those paths, we have to make projects, and before we make them, we have to have a travel economy that we don't have. So this is not an investment in roads, but this is a very clear protection of a company's monopoly, we're thinking of NIS, NIS "Gasprom", which is based on the law that this state has given through a state agreement with Russia. Right, in a privileged fiscal position. If we're talking about the domestic market, then it doesn't exist, Mr. Ugljanin. NIS is not a domestic company. NIS is a Russian state company in which we share our actions and it is a private company, from the point of view of the interest of Serbian citizens, not theirs, is not a public enterprise of this state. It runs its economic policy: debt is being invested, income is being realised. It has nothing to do with the citizens of Serbia. The fact is that you had to do this because the European Commission takes care of the damage suffered by those who are victims of economic discrimination, which were companies that did not have the same position as Gazprom in Serbia. First of all, it is the reason for these changes, not the subsequent desire to harmonize relations with the EU, because this is not something like that. If you want to harmonize them, lower your excise duties to the level at which they are in Europe and in line with Serbia's salaries. (President: Time. ) If you look at the relationship of two stamps, one mark and the fact that there was half a mark here in Serbia, it certainly is not in Turkey, then it is clear how much more burdens there are here than anywhere else. (President: Time. ) If we talk about financing roads, it can be a topic for another occasion, but this has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55862	MP Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55863	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am extremely surprised when I saw in the hall that Mr. Ugljanin today represents the government under one of these laws, a law that no one in Serbia now expected, so, don't and now, don't tell that story that something is adapting again to the EU. Imagine what nonsense we are talking about – that the EU is forcing Serbia to increase excise duties, right. And why don't you cut the excise, be the order? Euro falls, declines, that's what we watch every day. Fuel's growing. Aman, he needs money for the budget. And now you have found a solution to raise these prices under the EU mask. Now what's going on? You're going to cause contrasts, Mr. Ugljanin, because the price of gasoline and oil will reduce consumption, and the budget will be less. They'll pull up a series of other prices. It will destroy many businessmen. You'll have far less budget charge than you've ever had before. The price of fuel in Serbia is unsustainable with these incomes and such a situation in the economy. Today, you have 76,000 bankrupt companies. Every energy collection pulls a chain and chaos, destroys and destroys Serbia's economy, and especially the village and all the producers in Serbia. So you shouldn't have come here at all, Mr. Cvetkovic was supposed to come as finance minister and give us this "joyful" news. Secondly, you are now comparing the EU. Now I'm going to tell you one piece of information that is extremely important. In the EU, excises on fuel go directly to the construction of road infrastructure. At the reception in England, Germany, in all these countries more than 45% of excise duties are allocated, moreover, in some, even over 55%, for the construction of new roads. And with us, what you said – we need for pensions, we need education, we need for the police, so that you don't strike, etc., and that all pulls the chain of other dissatisfactions. You're getting more and more into trouble. Why? What you solve, well, that's how little Djokica would solve the problem; he gets stuck in his budget, and he says, raise your excise duties. That's a question for some little dick over there to solve. We expect here a serious finance minister, who runs this country's macroeconomic policy and who will come up with a serious project to get out of the crisis, increase employment, etc. You simply, when you miss it, you just say, "Come on, increase your excise gas." And, then, the people get a little ugly and put up with what's going on. You know, a few years ago, the fuel was twice as cheap. Double the price! There was more work, more construction, and better conditions in the economy, etc. We are now entering major problems and for no reason, you are bringing thousands of businessmen in Serbia into a very difficult situation, as well as citizens themselves, through such methods and changing the Excise Law. You simply can't find a solution to the budget. This method further reduces budget filling. In the beginning, you will increase on paper, but this nation has as much optimism as it can for fuel yes, as much as it can for oil to do so, etc. That's how it's gonna be. This entails a chain of dissatisfaction and a series of problems that will come to us in Serbia. So I don't understand why you in government can't sit down and find another way out of this situation? You can't solve the most basic problems. When I read in the paper recently, the paper is all yours, government, and I don't think they're lying, that the government doesn't even pay for electricity, that the government can't even pay for the basic communals, so what's the problem with you? You were reconstructing the government and you went out with the project, with a series of measures and said – Serbia will function better from today, every citizen will feel better. Well, then you remembered you don't have any money and you can't rebalance the budget, because you can't solve the question. So, without rebalancing, you simply beat, like, what, not to say, in the dark, but, you don't know, you don't have a goal at all. I can't figure out what you're planning. How can you function without budget rebalances? How can you tell us here – we have passed a law on the financing of political parties, and some parties have been campaigning for two years, which is extremely expensive and everyday? They've taken up all the media space, billboards, etc. What kind of funds is that from? Is there anyone in the government asking them that, and what's this about? What's this about? Where did those funds come from? Who's funding it all? Now, instead of dealing with the problems of construction, the problems of agriculture, which are extremely large, the problems of energy, because these are major problems, the problems of the travel industry, you are constantly scratching something 2004-2008. For years, it stands, but you don't chat in 2008-2011. And why don't you take a look from 2000 to 2003? Now, that would be very good, gentlemen, if we could take a look at what's going on today. Gentlemen, corruption has increased by 40% since 2008. Is that some kind of signal for you in the government? It's not safe. Recently, Minister Ciric came out and said the crisis had passed, the crisis was no longer there, that the country had come out of the crisis. That was the other day. Oh, the crisis is just coming. Every day, more and more companies go bankrupt. Every day there are more firms going into liquidation. So, what's the problem? It can't be a real budget charge if it doesn't work. Which branch of the economy works? You have completely destroyed all Serbian exporters through these methods, especially artificially maintaining the euro course. Serbia's best exporters are going bankrupt today, as they cannot withstand this price of the euro and simply go into total bankruptcy. Do you believe that an exporter, who is an exporter, loses over 100,000 euros a month only on a course difference? But with these methods, you encouraged imports. Everyone's patting you on the shoulders in Europe. Why not, we're a great market for them -- we destroy our economy, we destroy our banks, we don't have our own development bank, we come into a position to import everything and everything from all over the world. Well, is Serbia today importing cucumber, meat? Does Serbia today import meat, and it was an extremely large exporter of meat. Does Serbia import food?- I'm sorry. Now, that's a question to the government. Why does Serbia import food?- I'm sorry. Why is Serbia an importer of all possible products that exist and has destroyed its own industry? Please, can you see that something in Serbia is doing when it comes to the textile industry, the shoe industry, in the processing of dry meat products, in the manufacture of various machines, equipment, technology, process equipment? It's all gone! It's simple, they're all going into the hints of strikes, strikes, trouble. And now you've found a solution to hit them all extra in the pocket by increasing the excise on fuel. Why didn't you cut the excise duty to even the importers and make it at another level? And why the increase? Why, I repeat, the fuel is growing so much, day after day, if you say that the dinar is stronger, it's stronger than ever? We see the other day that the strongest since the euro became, I don't know, the strongest in this year. Well, why, then, don't follow that. We had a formula by which the price of fuel was calculated. Did you forget that formula? That formula exists and is known when fuel grows. And you know exactly how to calculate the fuel price. But today, you simply sit down, when you get the money, you share it, and you just say: increase excise duties, increase these obligations, increase those obligations, etc. Don't take your clothes off, Minister! There is no more to be taken from, because in Serbia everyone becomes poor, except for one group that has become extremely rich, it has completely separated and moved its companies and its goods from Serbia and operates through various other banks outside, with its companies out there. Therefore, this is not good for you, and I ask you, as one serious man, to host a man, to launch an initiative and call the Prime Minister and remove this law from the agenda. Or, lower your excises and even them out. And let's not put everything in the basket that the EU is asking us to do. The EU certainly does not ask to increase fuel prices via excise duties. That's not what he's asking! The EU is well aware of the situation in Serbia. But whenever you need something done, you say it's the laws that impose on us the EU. I'd like someone from the EU to come by and say yes. Here's a question for the government - give us who asked the EU to increase the price of fuel or excise? We from the opposition will make a meeting with this gentleman to convince him it's not good. Give us who the EU has insisted on doing this in this way. You have serious laws to come here to parliament and wait for it for a while to put them on. I'm watching yesterday – there's a restitution law waiting for you. It's an extremely dangerous law, and you're going to need a lot of resources to implement that law. How do you plan to do that? Do you think it's adopted here by some ruling majority, that you're formally covered and you're going to get a candidacy, or do you think you're going to do a serious law, which should already appear, that it's being seriously discussed and discussed? Thus, simply, you will enter parliament, you will make some law, your ruling majority will vote and, you will say, here, we have removed another commitment, thinking that everything is settled. But it'll only cause thousands of problems. How do you think you can get back the business facilities you sold in privatisation now? How do you think you end it in one short time, which you leave to do during a summer period, in a quick session that will take a day and night, in some debate that will be united, surely, and that will adopt it all. But life is something else. Life isn't the kind of paper we're about to adopt. He will then create quite another problem that will not be able to solve this government, and perhaps the next governments that will come, because these damages that are done here are difficult to correct. I see many from the ruling coalition boast – here, we get loans, we get a record credit for health care, we get a record credit for corridors, etc. It's all there. But I'm asking you now, Mr. Minister, is the corridor to Macedonia so important in this difficult situation, when there is no traffic? Who's setting you up as a condition? Does it matter to you the corridor, which, I hope, you pass, the Ibar highway? Does it cross your corridor where 27,000 cars are a day or a corridor where 3,000 cars are a day? Did you know that where 3,000 cars a day cost that corridor a mile a month? What are we gonna keep it from if there's no income? From the budget. And we're going to re-burden the budget for the next few years even more. We'll also have credit lines and everything else, which will completely choke this country. We are slowly going into a total collapse, where we will completely block ourselves with reckless decisions. This decision is totally the opposite of getting out of the crisis. It doesn't matter. Three, four dinars, five dinars, ten dinars. Well, look how much fuel it is now. How can a peasant survive? You haven't even given him that subsidy yet, and you've already fueled him, so you can take it back. And you're going to take it all back, through a variety of obligations and through the collection of repromation and everything else. This is one chain that will pull inflation and everything else. So, once again, to shorten the story, please, as a serious man, a host, who is in the government, ask your associates, and especially the prime minister, to withdraw this law, to reduce excise duties, to equalize, and to once make this Serbia happy with some positive decisions. Like this, this people experience stress every day, watching what they collect. But if we adopt this, in a few days we'll have a chain of gatherings again and we won't be able to stop it. We'll have inflation, we'll have problems. And don't think that many people who announce strikes don't see that it's a difficult situation. They see it's a difficult situation, but when the police come to strike, know it burned to the nail. Now, that's very dangerous. And don't tell the story, I've been listening to the Secretary of Defense here – the situation in the military industry is the best in the last 20 years, the export of flowers, all flowers, everything is great. What, all of a sudden, strike strike.- I'm sorry. Here, in Luciani problems, in Kragujevac problems, in "Freedom" problems, in "Kruik" problems! Well, where's that good?- I'm sorry. Name a story where it's good. It can't work like this, so I'm asking you as Minister to influence that government to do something, if it can. The first thing he needs to do is bring a budget rebalance, so that we MPs know how the reconstructed government has the budget that we adopted here at the end of last year. You're completely out of the Budget Law, you're doing literally whatever you want in the government. Money is released on a phone call. How? For certain ministries that are now connected, separated, how did you put their budgets together, share? How did you divide mining and energy? I'm very interested in it.- I'm sorry. Does anyone in the government ask how much it is who got the funds from this crowd that were brought here in the Budget Law? How did you share the NIP? Therefore, I ask you to withdraw this law because this really doesn't make sense, and it has exceeded its gift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55864	Just sign in. The minister wants a word. Here you go, Mr. carbonine.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55865	I thank you, Mr. Ilic, and I appreciate your experience and the great results you've done on your travel infrastructure while you've been Minister. I appreciate your discussion, too. You've only touched many questions, many real questions, that torture every citizen. There are no objections to your exposure, but the question is how to fill all these gaps. This is about so small increases, these are minimal increases, which will make at the state level a great contribution from which we will be able to address these issues that you have been talking about. For viewers and all MPs, who may not be sent, it is a matter of minimal increases in coordination. I have to correct you, there is no man, there is no address that has blackmailed us. We ourselves, aware of our obligations, are coordinating the excise policy. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55866	Please don't throw it away. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55867	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Minister, tax laws are the most important laws in every country. When discussing such important laws, the whole picture should be observed, for a law governed by society, especially tax law, is not isolated. We still have an arrangement with the IMF, we hear that the government will propose that this arrangement be extended in some kind of modified or similar form. We have a few arrangements with the World Bank. It is well known that the World Bank and the IMF, when they observe each of the countries, or the economy of the countries, observe three key parameters. This has been slightly changed by a major global crisis since 2008, but these are, from the perspective of the modern economy, three basic elements. These are inflation, budget deficit and exchange rate. What does this law or the consequences of this law and the government's economic policy have on these three key elements of our finances? Target inflation, as predicted by NBS for this year, is 5.5% plus-minus 1.8%. At this point inflation is 15%. We're talking inflation a month back. How much today, with the latest data, we do not know – at least three times larger than it was designed. Tell me when in any profession you make a mistake 1:3 in which way you can observe or predict a further flow of things. The National Bank of Serbia and the government signed an inflation agreement, what links this now and what consequences the fuel price increase will have on inflation. It is known that fuel is a component of practically every thing produced and every service offered in Serbia. The budget deficit reached 40% of the total budget deficit in the first four months, and clearly there is no story of inflation being neutrally affected by the budget. Yes, on the one hand, it raises revenue and that the greater inflation has no consequences. And it has its consequences. It is clear that increased inflation requires increased expenditure and the slightly higher revenues, higher expenditures, that is another reason for budget rebalances. Which is why the euro course has changed dramatically over the past few months, down by practically ten per cent. Well very simple, I think in the world, at this point, the most rewarding thing is buying the state records of the Republic of Serbia. The most profitable thing, because you have at your annual level 13-14% interest rate, when you knock down the euro rate another 10% in those three months as much paper as you have of value, you figure it out yourself. It's three to four times more than in any other developed country in the world. These are the three basic elements of our economic policy. A budget deficit that is enormous, the question of where it will stop. It is the course of the euro that is completely unpredictable, because when these foreign banks, which come here and buy securities of value, decide to withdraw from this market, the course will explode and it is absolutely clear to everyone. It is a classic pyramid savings we have seen several times in Serbia. As you've seen, they're not the immune and most developed countries in the world. Look what happened to those funds in America. And the third thing is inflation. It's three times the target so far. With these results in agriculture, with this kind of excise policy, we can only expect worse things. What will be the result when this law is passed in a few days? In your explanation, the government said that this could create higher costs for citizens, but that depends primarily on the price policy of the manufacturer, or the importer of the fuel. Yes, that's true, but Mr. Jovanovic had just made and presented an analysis of the participation of state obligations in the price of fuel; the excise duty was 40, so far 45, and 37 dinars, depending on the type of derivatives, now it will be 49.5 and 37, at least that's what you suggest. Yeah, but that's what VAT counts on. So when VAT is included, the increase in the case of motor gasoline is 5.8 dinars, not four dinars, and in the case of diesel fuels is 2,36 dinars, not two dinars. And when you take that at the price of fuel 60% of the state, 40% is both crude oil and oil processing, as well as distribution and gas pump insurance, and the cost of gas stations and all that is required, then it's a big question of how these oil producers are going to calculate these five-six dinars at their price, not to raise the price, if the state first puts itself together. I don't think it can, the basic element and the basic postulate of economic policy to be, "let's fill the budget." In the economy, it's called the elasticity of demand. What happens to oil and derivatives when the price jumps another six dinars a liter? Has anyone done an analysis and is there an analysis in the government? I'd like you to answer me how much the traffic of derivatives has fallen since it's completely clear? Don't look at Belgrade, there are bridges closed in Belgrade, so half of the city, at least this central part, is jammed, but what happens in Serbia with fuel prices rising and how much will the consumption drop? The famous thing is that excise goods, well, of course, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, but also oil derivatives are very sensitive to price hikes, and that when the price rises does not mean that they will increase the revenue proportionally. On the contrary, by the rule everywhere in the world in all the normal countries of the world, that Mr. Kasalovic, I don't know why you're nodding your head, this was your amendment, this session we have primarily because of your amendment, it's known that demand is falling and then budget revenues are less than they are. It's a famous thing everywhere in the world. I don't see any reason why we're here to discuss things that are famous, recognized and adopted everywhere in the world, except for us. What effects will this have on Serbia's economy, on agriculture, on the price of food, on all the costs that one part can fight, one part we can't, because Serbia is not an isolated island and depends on many other factors happening everywhere in the world? If the basic element of policy is to fill the budget, even if it is to broadcast an unlimited number of state records, on which we pay an increasing and higher interest each year, then the result is that the budget funds are available for anything smaller and smaller. And that's why every day we have more problems, every step of the way. We have proposed an amendment where the state would do what a large number of countries in the world did, that excises be of course equal, but to take this lower price as a basis. Well, then, that doesn't lead to an increase in fuel prices, because Serbia is specific to something else. Serbia is a very specific country, because when it needs to collect something, then everyone says it collects because it is related to the euro and that import component is expressed. And when the euro loses 10% to value, tell me the list of products that have been in recent months, when the euro came from 107 to 96, give me a list of products that it cheaped in our stores and a list of services that are now 10% cheaper, because the euro has lost value. There are no such products, because it is obvious that this policy is only one-way policy, the policy of raising prices and there is no policy of turning back. That's what you were just saying: it's important to fill the budget, because in the first four months, VAT revenue has dropped drastically against the plan. That's the result, because if we start with that policy, because there's no VAT, let's raise prices, it's just going to cause even bigger problems in the budget. There is one rule in England that applies to many things, and it seems to me to be valid everywhere in the world, even with us, and that's pie-making. Since you know what English pie looks like, round, like ours, a little different composition, but the rule is: that someone gets a bigger slice than they have to get a smaller piece, because pie can't change size. Now, that's how it is with our economy, if the state gets a bigger piece, then the citizens will get a smaller piece, and it can last for some time, until the economy falls apart completely. Unfortunately, such examples in various countries in the world are as many as you want. And only a good government depends on how it can overcome and resolve it. Unfortunately, this proposed solution is not good. This proposed solution will continue to increase inflation. Budget revenues will be reunited and we'll see each other, for God's sake, in a few months, and we'll see who was right. The course of the euro will continue to be unpredictable, and this together has consequences on both foreign investors and on the roads you spoke of, as well as on the lives of all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55868	National MP Mr. Veroljub Arsic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, while you've explained here, I've been trying to understand what the government wants you to represent. You even said, in one address to the MPs, that in Turkey, when the price of fuel was two stamps, two thousand kilometers was made. Now I'd like to ask you a question, the price here is a lot bigger than two stamps, and in four years you haven't even made 200 miles. That's the problem. It seems to me that this government has a completely wrong sense and a completely wrong understanding of why it exists. Governments don't exist to fill the budget. That's the second part the government should have. The first one is to establish order and law on its territory, to make conditions for economic development and the development of the economy to improve the standard of citizens. Then it won't be a problem if we have to charge pension funds from the budget, so it won't be a problem to fill the health care funds from the budget, but the budget will exist for the state administration, for the military, for the police, for the investment. Not for a value paper store. Once you've even said, you can't even have a goat and a penny. I agree, that rule applies in trade, it can't apply when it's run by a state, at least not in the way that we in SNS understand and think how the state should be run. The market for oil derivatives has been liberalised since the New Year and, as a consequence of liberalisation, oil and petroleum products in retail were supposed to fall. However, due to the latest law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, there was no such thing as an increase in price. That was, like, a little before New Year's Eve. And as much as you take care of the budget, Mr. Minister, although I don't blame you too much here, you have more of that moral responsibility that you're in that government and I'd like them to sit here who really create that policy. Just to remind you, this government, when it was the Law on the Use, Holding and Wearing of goods, suggested that aircraft be released from paying that tax or significantly reduced. Also, yachts, scooters, rafts, but that's why you introduced to increase the tax on transport vehicles for delivery. So here a few months ago, we had malted roadblocks so someone could drive a cheaper plane, a yacht, a raft, a scooter, and we put more pressure on those who really charge the budget, because they have more. You take care of it, this government, not you personally. And the whole problem that's going on here is just that -- how to fill the budget, but not from real income? Your budgeting looks like a man eating himself, no different. I don't see the real point of all this, with what's going on right now with all this excise equation. Why didn't there be a price drop? We said one piece just because of this law, now I hear we're making changes again. It came because the state is not honest about the liberalisation of oil and oil derivatives. It is not only the fault of the oil industry of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for good. Because you have so regulated the imports of oil and petroleum products by sublegal acts that no one can import fuel in Serbia, except for NIS. All right, it meets the technical requirements and it's there, and the state is 49%. But that's how you protected the other monopolies who did this job, because you predicted such technical conditions that no one but them could do it. Well, now we've got some Miodrag Kostic dealing with imports of artificial fertilisers, because no one else can import them instead, except maybe the three four who take the same positions with this government. Well, we have the same one now dealing with oil and oil imports, specifically, even NIS couldn't import EVRO diesel without Miodrag Kostic. Then the question arises – wait, is the government's job what we said – that it develops economy and industry or that it protects monopolies, that they get even richer? Well, even their yachts were tax-free. They got a little money for making money?- I'm sorry. Let's take a look at that story of yours about that famous lamb. We are now close to the beginning of the tourist season. Through Serbia, there will soon be countermeasures on tens of thousands of foreign plates. In part, these are our citizens who come here on vacations, and in part are foreign citizens who are in transit, some go home on vacation, and some on vacations, on tourism, etc. Will any of them, except to pay the toll, stop somewhere? Cars of newer production, Mr. Minister, go more than a thousand kilometers with one tank of fuel? We run such a fuel price policy, that he won't stop at our gas station, he won't buy our fuel, he won't rest to come to some store or some restaurant, he won't, he'll just pay the toll, because there's nothing to stop him here and keep him from taking any favors other than using our route. But if there's a reason and one who deals with catering is the full budget, and in order to deal with it, he has to hire someone and fill the budget again. And in order to provide a favor, he has to buy something, re-charging the budget. And in order to buy it, someone has to produce it and recharge the budget, so I don't talk, to produce it, there has to be workers, and again the budget. Many of the laymen who earn here and who find this funny, they don't know, 'he wants to say we've opened a thousand jobs, don't count well, Mr. Minister, they have no idea. Why? Because when you really open a thousand jobs, it's not just a thousand, it's at least another 500, because when someone starts working, it starts spending. When it starts to spend, it starts all in the chain and the consumption starts, and there's the story that you can "and the goats and the money" when you run the state, not just when you're looking at the budget. These are the problems this government is running away from and hiding from the people, not trying to solve them, but let's just fill the budget. It's primary. There's no other reason. We've talked about some more things now, just to say, when it comes to agriculture, Serbia has always been an agricultural agricultural country, don't get carried away that we can have some big heavy industry, because we've never had it. How do you think our agriculture is curable to what our country is preparing for it, which is a complete liberalisation of the market, if we have the fuel prices we have, if we have a mechanism that is below the quality of agricultural producers in the countries of the European Union, and therefore have more inputs on a agricultural product, because with these fuel prices we place them in an even more difficult position? How do we think we can train them to make some money, increase their production and place even something out of the country? This way we certainly won't. What about the industry? Same situation again. All you can try to run, any manufacturing activity, service activity, one of the input instructions is the price of fuel, because everything has to come somewhere, and most of it is used by us by road transport, which is now because of this excise policy and the policy that the state is leading on both the monopoly and the tax policy, as well as the excise policy, therefore, that these fuel prices must be far higher than is realistic at this point. No one can convince me that it's different. The fuel prices and these now we have were valid when the price of barrels of crude oil on the world market was $120, and now it's 98. They went for it when the euro was 107 or 108 dinars, and now it's 98.99 dinars. They acted when the different relationship was between the euro and the dollar, and now the dollar is much cheaper than the euro was. Have any derivatives been embossed? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's not. So, because of the tax policy and because of the monopolies that are in one artificially, I can say, the bad way did the state, not because of NIS, but because of some others, because I don't know what these reasons are and what this government owes them, but if we want to get out of this problem, we're going to have to think about how to create conditions to fill the budget from real sources, not by a little bit, when we lack the resources to increase some tax base or expand what is being taxed. I think it's a problem that this government has not known for the past four years to solve, and I think it's a problem that will certainly wait for a new government, and if it is part of the SNS, I'm absolutely sure we'll know this problem to solve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55870	Thank you. Before we continue our work, allow me to welcome the members of the Association of Petrovic Women of Backo Petrovac, who are visiting the home of the National Assembly, and who are currently following our work: Katarina Balaž, Katarina Kevenski, Zuzana Hmirak, Paulina Sabo Tanciak, Marija Čivjak, Ana Pavis, Dorča Drahtina, Zuzana Medveđev Kuronjakova, Marija Parkanji, Ana Hamsmanova, Marija Šrama, Katarina Hlačak, Marija Spevak, Marija Gašparova, Nada Cerovski, Miluška Hendl, Zuzana Kopestinski, Katarina Arnjaš, Zuzana Nasa Nasadi, Marjana Haška, Jan Haška, Juraj Dorča, Miroslav Šuster, Zuzana Šuster, Ana Mučati, two Ana Mučati, Katana Mučati, Katina Horvataj, Ana Dudaštaj, Ana Dudašakjas, Anadaj, Marijak and Marijakj. Let's give them a round of applause. I give the word to Parliamentarian Dragan Stevanovic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, at the beginning of your presentation, you said that this law was passed on, a manifestation of the government's responsibility. No one forced you to do anything, but you showed your responsibility and decided to send this law to parliament. For the SRS, this law and everything that's happened since January of the month to this day, and as far as excise and excise policies are concerned, is the image and opportunity of this government, which you are part of, and is the promotion of political and economic irresponsibility, and because of everything you've written in the explanation, I will not be wrong in the name of the SRS if I say that this is part, political and economic indiscretion. I will try through my presentation, not because of you coming from the government and who neither guilty nor obliged to be targeted today by the MPs, because I assume you are not an expert on excise duties, but given that, you should have treated the law in such a way that, unlike all the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you come to this Parliament once and you say, yes, we screwed up in January. We adopted something, because we didn't know how to do it or we didn't want to adopt it so that the bosses in Brussels would be okay, so today we put you all in a position to discuss the law the way it's being discussed. Perhaps you would disarm us with this, Mr. Minister, so we wouldn't be so keenly discussing, we would agree with you that the government is incapable of making decisions that are in the national interest of this country and its economies, all its citizens and this debate is over in half an hour. And this way, Mr. Minister, more or less because of you from the government, and much more because of the citizens and the public, from which the real arguments and the reasons for this circus are hidden, you will listen to the criticism of MPs from the SRS and colleagues from the opposition, because you can call this whatever you want, but responsibility, it doesn't exist. My first question for you, what happened in the Stabilisation Agreement, in the Transition Agreement, in your European chapters since January, so you're changing the law that was European in January? I'll remind you that the former finance minister was deliberately defending the decision to accept the SPS amendment. Even the tax guidelines of countries where this approach to excises is a case. Who was wrong then, Minister, Proposer or you who accepted the amendment? So, what happened in the meantime with Serbian European integration, so now you're changing the Excise Act the way you change? Now, these are the questions you should give me the answer to, actually, one of the questions. Mr. Minister, what does this have to do with European directives? Do you know what you wrote in the explanation – 'adjusting the structure of taxation of oil derivatives with EU standards'. Here, Mr. Minister, my second question to you, since you are talking about the structure of EU excise duties, how much of this increase will go to reduce CO2 emissions to improve energy efficiency and improve job creation? Here, we speak the EU language. Tell me, since you are calling for the structure of excise duties from the EU, European directives, Europe deals with these things from excise duties, and you have managed to bring this disgrace from the law into connection with schools, hospitals, kindergartens and roads – you will increase excise duties and you will do what you haven't done in ten years. Well, that's irresponsible and inconclusive. It is also inconclusive that as a minister you accepted to come to defend something that is indefensible in the name of the incompetent. That really doesn't stand. You've been asked by your colleagues, why didn't you cut the excises, but you've increased? Well, when we talk, Mr Minister, about these EU standards, you see, the European Commission has asked for directives that regulate taxes, i.e. excise duties, to change the concept by which they will change, to cause a violent reaction in the EU. Do you know why and whose reaction? A reaction from Germany and the UK. And you know why? Because they estimated by their budgets that in 2018 the excise duties on diesel will be 15% higher, so this will increase the diesel-fuel price by 4% to 5% in 2018. You can't keep the same excise for six months. And you're bringing this into line with European fuel taxation structures, that is, EU standards and excise duties. Well, you've come up with something that you've come up with. You're the problem, because what you want to do is you can't do it right. We are politically opposed to both these directives and our integrations. So we're completely politically opposed. And from that point of view, we're going to act and talk. But you who stand for it, well, you're expected to have basic knowledge and arguments when you come out here to tell us. We don't have a cadasar of polluters in Serbia, air, and you're talking about excise duties on oil derivatives and oil, and EU standards. The only thing that's binding, Mr. Minister, and it's about the EU and the oil excise, is, you know, the minimum level of excise duty. You in Serbia did not respect it, but you have the biggest excise duties in the environment and you are at the top of the European scale with the standard that we have in Serbia. Well, when you call on Turkey, ministers, and what, as the minister, who has been in power for ten years, did you not secure 10% growth on an annual basis, like Turkey? You're a spa, you don't know where to patch holes in both the budget and the state, and institutions and everything, and you're making a parallel to the price of fuel in Serbia and Turkey? Please don't. You from Brussels didn't get the commission's decision. Decisions are binding, not opinions. Whose interests are they protecting? Some thinker from the Brussels administration? You have a problem with your brain in Brussels, not Belgrade, and protecting their interests, not the interests of domestic industry, trade, markets and states. It's the problem of this country, that you defend whatever you're getting involved in where no one's making you, and you disable it or destroy it in your own way. That's the problem with this country. What EU, European standards and your taxation, or the definition of excise duty on fuel, in line with the tax structure in the EU? You have two excise duties on all types of fuel in Serbia. These, Mr. Minister, are all the excise duties in the EU, to which you are calling, look, all different! You say you've agreed with them, and we only have two excises. Here, Ministers, Denmark – 14 different excises, Belgium – 14, Romania – 15, France – 15, Slovakia – 14, Germany – 14 etc. What the hell is the EU? You and the EU?- I'm Please don't. That's why I'm saying, unlike everyone else, you could show a little courage and say yes, we messed up, now you're correcting all our mistakes together. We'd appreciate it more than what you're telling us. Look, here's what you wrote next. What repercussions, or consequences of this, will have on inflation, which some have also opened, at prices, to final consumption in Serbia? The inflation generator in Serbia, Mr Minister, in the previous period, when we were at the top of the European scale, the European continent, were controlled prices, food prices and energy prices. And do you know what your government colleagues promote at forums – we will through our policy ensure macroeconomic stability?- I'm sorry. Is this in the context of macroeconomic stability, this, what are you going to raise prices for? Well, the largest number of consumers in Serbia will be threatened with this. Do you think this will touch the owners of the tractors using the EVRO diesel, these tycoons that put you together in the government? No, but this will touch the apple farmer near Prepolje, from Ratay near Vranj, this will be a blow to them. I don't care who drives tractors that use the EVRO diesel fifth quality, as it's already called, etc. What responsibility are you talking about with this law? So I ask you, and why have you not called for many other government decisions and asked for the opinion of the European Commission? Why didn't you ask Brussels how he felt about your state interventionism? There, the EU is the most subtle and their story cannot be challenged. Why didn't you ask them about state interventionism? Great to have you here, here, now I ask you, I was present, sitting with fellow Members of your party, when they are whining about the position of Serbian textiles in the Raška region, in Aryl, in Požega, in Ivanjica, it doesn't matter, but you are from that area that is famous, my crowish neighborhood is famous for that, what have you done? State interventionism "Beneton" – ten thousand per job! Why didn't you ask the EU to tell you, what does it think of such state interventions? Well, you didn't ask because in the government someone needed this to be promoted, not because they were protecting the economic interests of the Serbian textile industry. I'll just remind you of something, gentlemen of the Europeans. You signed an agreement in 2005 with the EU based on which Serbia could export Serbian textile products to the European market without any excise duty, and the EU only since 2008. For that period of three years, not that you did not raise the Serbian textile industry, but you destroyed it, and you know it well, what is the position of these people in Novi Pazar, in western Serbia, where they deal with it, as well as in southern Serbia, etc. One of the most endangered Serbian industries is the textile industry, along with construction, etc. It's an essential story about the EU. The excise duties may be at the European summit, but your average rate of customs duty is double the average rate of customs duty in Austria, which is an EU member. Now, that's the economic chaos you're in and in which, unfortunately, all of us, together with you, have to live. You know why? Because you are not committed to the state, you are not committed to development and you are not protecting its economic interests. That's the problem, which is not just your mind, and your heart is in Brussels, not Belgrade. No one forbids you to cooperate, but it can't all be at the expense of this people's backs, and this industry and our production, and one, and the other, and the third, and the fifth and the tenth. I would only ask fellow MPs to hear what you wrote in your explanation. Check this out, he says, "Application of the Law, in the part in which they are proposed" (now) "something higher is excise on all types of motor gasoline" etc. ''It could generate slightly higher costs to the citizens and economics due to the potential rise in retail prices of these oil derivatives,' and now, look out, this is insolent, 'as much as it depends on the price policy of the manufacturer, or the importer of the derivatives... "Now producers and importers will fund your incompetence! You're going to raise excise duties, and manufacturers and importers are going to cut their margins that are poor to derivatives anyway, they're not lame, but they're not big. Five dinars is the biggest. That's right. The European diesel is the smallest. Why would they fund your incompetence, your need for money in the budget? As SRS, I'm against the importer, for affirmation of domestic production. But we ask you, how are you not ashamed to write something like this? Now, importers and producers, and final consumers of gasoline and oil, will be to blame for raising prices for two dinars, i.e. excise duties by two to five dinars. This is really embarrassing. Well, that's why I said we wouldn't make a mistake if we said the government promoted indignity through this. You could at least take this comment without telling us what's going to happen, because as an increase in energy prices, as an instruction, everything else will collect. These in Germany and Britain, I repeat, are concerned that in 2018, my people, in seven years, and this will increase the price of oil by 4-5%, in seven years, will burden them with the price of road transport and will do everything possible to make an initiative to change these directives. And you? Instead of leading, according to the SRS proposal, a proportional excise policy, so when the price of oil on the stock market jumps, you take down excises and vice versa, to ensure the stability of the price and a lower impact on inflation, at least from that point of view, and you raise excises and defend it by saying that you will make roads. Since I don't have much time, I'm gonna finish the NIS story. As far as NIS is concerned, they reacted correctly to all this, but I'm not going to talk here just because majority ownership in NIS is Russian. The state of Serbia has an interest in protecting those 49%. And what is the issue, and where is this not a practice in the EU to help state interventionism and some other measures of domestic production, what is wrong with it? Whose interest are we going to defend: MOL, OMV? What if we didn't defend NIS interest? The ownership of the state of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia is 49%. I guess we have an interest in making a dividend, based on the company's income and promotions, in putting it into the budget, i.e. in spending the Republic of Serbia, and we don't have the illusion that everyone in NIS is satisfied. You have workers who are relatively dissatisfied, but work and receive salaries. You have people who are lucky to have the opportunity to have a job, which is today a privilege in the state of Serbia, Mr. Minister. Instead of the government finding solutions to improve the position of these people along with NIS owners, she is slapping NIS at the expense of Brussels. Now Brussels will strike through you from Belgrade with the slaps of Moscow, Moscow, which you need the president to take pictures of you before the elections. What circuses with Moscow and everyone else have you made, you know that well, from the KIM Resolution and beyond. But no one's gonna say how much NIS has invested since he got here and no one's gonna say that the hydro-processing and hydro-cracking investments started and that they're gonna be over by 2012. And no one will say that at that moment NIS will be absolutely ready to go to the EU market and other parts of the world. Instead of the government being proud of it and helping such a company – the government is tripping, because European forces in Serbia think it should. Now, that, Mr. Minister, is a disgrace and a shame. There's nothing personal about this story you need to understand. As far as the SRS is concerned, you and your government colleagues have grown up for political retirement. Serbia should be guided by people who are nationalally aware and responsible, who are committed to its development and promotion, which are, above all, in the SRS. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55872	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55873	I've listened to you very carefully, but here is one question, truth be told, in your discussion there are a lot of exact things, but in the last part, contradict yourself. I said that one reason for changing this law is, in fact, the introduction of a principle of equality on the oil derivative market. We tried to protect it a few months ago with our excise policy, which is, in fact, one of the functions of that policy, the domestic market, and thus we have brought into an unfair position of other oil importers and distributors. However, this introduces the principle of equality on the oil derivative market. I repeat, it is a very small, small, negligible increase that in the global part of the state level will bring about a certain gain and stabilisation of our opportunities in some of our issues of society. We can't have each other. I said in the language of the people, we can't have goats and money. It's about excise goods, it's not about the price of milk, it's not about the price of bread, it's about oil derivatives. Everyone in the world does it, so do we. I've heard a lot of your criticism. However, I remember some of the governments of the Republic of Serbia when we were buying at very expensive prices gasoline in coke bottles, in plastic bottles, in buckets, when there was no gas at gas stations. This is one of our attempts, without threats and blackmail on the side, to correct our own mistakes. The government tried to protect NIS, to protect 49%. However, we have brought an unequal position to another distributor, and today we are trying to correct it with this law. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55874	National MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55875	Mr. Minister, I didn't want this debate to continue, but I'll tell you what you really deserve to be told. When gas and oil were bought in a bottle in Serbia, I remember that period, but I don't think you remember it, because you were in Turkey, not Serbia. That's one thing. The second thing, you did not protect this excise market policy, you protected domestic producers, and on the market are products of domestic producers and those of imports. And, let me finish, Mr. Minister, when it's so insignificant, so why are you raising them? And what do you change when it's so insignificant? Because your heart and mind are in Brussels, not Serbia, Mr. Minister, and you can't find any valid argument to find for this law. Your problem is that you have accepted that you are sitting in the congregation today defending something that is pointless and indefensible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55876	I would like to inform you that, according to Article 96(4), they are in line with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted the parliamentary groups of New Serbia, LDP, DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and SNS MPs. I give my word to the MP Zlati Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55877	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, under the circumstances, you are here today in front of the Government to defend what is indefensible. This increase in excise duty, which you have so deminingly said is small, is perhaps little when talking about one liter, but it should cause something that is very large, which is a serious earthquake both in inflation and in the everyday lives of citizens. I'm sure they'll pull the collection chain behind them, and this drastic decline in citizens' standards will certainly turn into a dramatic one. That's what the EU didn't ask Serbia to do. You know that the EU has pointed precisely to excise duties as one of the problems Serbia has and which are pulling other problems and making daily life difficult for Serbian citizens. Keep in mind one statement from the governor of the NBS, which I hold very serious and very responsible, because I believe that he approached his business in this way, which he also said, also trying to soften the statement of a dramatic state – that he cannot keep inflation in the envisaged frameworks. Behind that mild sentence is something that can cause anger in an ordinary Serbian citizen. So you said that this is a little increase, that this is something that will minimally damage the citizens, and indeed a lot to help the budget. In fact, we think that this is one of those drops that could go beyond the public's patience. Just look at the comments of the citizens you left under the newspaper articles that are today on the subject of the assembly debate, so you'll understand. In the simplest jargon, I'll just take the liberty of reading to you what one of the citizens says, and he says, "We are the dumbest people in the world, we keep quiet when we need to and when we don't have to, so they cut us however they please!" And then another citizen says, like this – just rip us up, get us out of the car, then you won't need rotations when you're passing! So these are spontaneous reactions, I'm sorry I took the liberty of reading them to you. What we need to worry about is that the state at this point, Serbia, is most affected by each liter of fuel, that the state of Serbia, that is, every day this government leaves half the tank to itself and is not enough. And let us ask, Where is the king's grandfather, No treasure? Where'd they go with that kind of money? What goes into the price of fuel? I'm talking about a 95-octane Premium case. In order to reach a price of 132.33 dinars, the producer price is 56.3, excise tax 49.50, margin 5 dinars, Emergency Fund 0.63 pairs, chemical registration fee 0.20, VAT 20.70 and, overall, we reached the price of 132,33 dinars. What might be minimal in one litre, is really big in thousands of gallons that are being spent, is what will accumulate and complicate transport, which is the input in everything else, the production of everything else, that, even if the weakened economy, will block even more, the daily life of the citizens even more expensive, and than the price of oil on the world market has fallen by a barrel of more than $20, than the euro is cheap for more than 10 dinars, we have no idea that our dinar has become more valuable. We don't know who he's worth more to, he's very expensive to the citizens. They don't earn it anywhere, a small number comes to it, and the euro, which we don't know where they're taking it from anymore, is changing in 10-euro denominations at the exchange offices. In exchange places you don't have citizens who buy euro, they just sell them. We think it's an occipital game that the government is playing with its tycoons. You know who can handle the euro now, who can buy it, and the citizens, we've seen that scenario recently in history, we don't remember it very much, but it's alarming to us all the time. Mr. Minister, please welcome the gentleman of the bankruptcy director of this state, Mr. Cvetkovic, and ask him to stop running the policy of looting the people through various legal obligations, and start really worrying as an economist about how in this country he's going to run the chain of production, and then also the chain of consumption, thereby the income chain, in as short a time as possible, and I'm afraid he's truly incompetent.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55878	Thank you. National MP Natasa Micic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55879	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, in every normal country, tax policy is carefully prepared and very carefully defended. What the proposal for this legislation on excise duties is also saying today's defence is that no competent minister is present, but that no member of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority participated in the debate, as well as that no MP, which I really don't remember, I don't remember, was reported in the debate, and that he supports this bill. The reason is very clear, it's simply a disgrace to participate in this. I respect that you have accepted here today to endure the criticisms we are giving you, but you are, in fact, taking part in the planting of a cowardly egg that we from the LDP will not accept, such as cowardice and the justification that the EU standards and the eradication of the grey economy are behind this, so I have also experienced that one representative of the SRS today understands the EU better and defends it, rather than you who are called the pro-European government. So much for the bill itself. Mr. Minister, you said they were, and you were undermining several times, in fact, that this is about minimal increases. [[Applause]] It may be minimal to you, 4.5 dinars for gasoline, 2 dinars for diesel, but with a January increase, which the LDP pointed out was wrong and we submitted a proposal in January where we asked for a reduction in excise duty, it would be better if this law today were withdrawn and that the LDP proposal would be accepted. These minimal increases provide income to the state, therefore, with this January and this today, at an annual level when we assume that 600 million liters of gasoline and 950 million liters of diesel are annual consumption, hence, with these increases the state will have an annual income of 10.7 billion dinars, i.e. 107m euros, in this euro account to 100, which means daily income of 300 000 euros. Minister, is it small, really? When you add that this increase in excise duty will actually increase inflation, because transport of goods always affects the final price of goods, so you increase costs and businesses and citizenship, increase inflation, then the real benefit of this is only the state, not the citizens. What's bad from the LDP's point of view is that in the total number of laws that this government has proposed, there is an incomparably fewer of those laws that are the result of citizens' needs, and far more are those that actually satisfy the priority of the state, number one, and these are their own costs. It's not good and it's not going to get us anywhere. On the other hand, the way you've even passed the previous law, and this one, too, is embarrassing. In fact, we have instructed you to violate the Association Agreement, to violate the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU. You favored domestic fuel, which is not domestic but Russian at all, and now I ask you – when you violated this transitional trade agreement, was it the result of unconscious work, because you do not have enough experts, although the reason is that it is waste, given that we have warned you about it, or have you tried to fool the EU? That's what's wrong. And then you wonder why support for European integration is falling. So, one, this way, because you're trying to cheat the EU, and two, by actually using the EU as some cloak for your incompetence. It is clear that this was not an EU condition and I think that you should really, finally, after so many criticisms, explain to us that this is not a condition, an absolute increase in excise duty is not a condition of the EU and that you are once again transferring to the members of the government that would be far better for the whole country, for your government, for your citizens, for the economy, for better education, for the culture, for the civil sector, all, to accept the LDP proposal, which we submitted in January, which we asked for the reduction of excise duties. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55880	Does Mr. Secretary want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55881	Thank you. I would take the opportunity to congratulate you on your courage to come here today, but like my other colleagues, I would like to express my dissatisfaction that you are here today, not because of you personally, but because some other ministers were to attend, above all, the Minister of Finance. Your responsibility, too, isn't great in one thing, but you're taking part in this government, so you have it, too, but I don't have the potential for that. In the last three years, in fact, we have been attending the culmination lately, because our government's work has led to a conflict between the virtual Serbia that you are creating here and you are presenting it to the citizens and the real state that citizens are facing in this country, and this bill is just another proof that you in the government are taking care of your own interests exclusively. Don't worry about the interests of the citizens. On the contrary, from day to day you further undermine the standard of our citizens. If by this law you'd made excises in the way that we at the DSS suggested, but I have no illusion that you would accept that amendment, the fuel could be cheaper by 3 to 5 dinars. This is how we deal with the situation, when this law comes into force, that the fuel will be more than 3 to 5 dinars. Is that a public conceit? Yes, it is. Is that an imposition for the weak Serbian industry anyway? Yes, it is. In each industrial branch, fuel is one of the most important instructions. Is this going to cause and can affect further inflation? Of course it can, and here's the conflict of that virtual Serbia, where you claim inflation will be 5.5%, and the real state we're facing, that the fuel is going to go to the sky and that it's going to pull all the other prices up. Are the salaries growing? They don't grow. Is the current level at which the euro is located real and is it a real relationship? We all know it's not. If we're a leader in something, not only in the region but also in Europe and the world, it's on the interest we gave the banks based on state records that they can make a year; interest of 13, 14, almost 15%, plus the euro rate, we, in fact, give the banks to earn 25% on an annual basis. When these banks withdraw from this market, it's clear what's going to happen. And everybody knows that. But that's not what people are told. In fact, some beautiful stories are still being told, namely, creating this virtual picture of the government knowing what it's doing and what it's doing. What is essential in this conflict is that in all segments of society, thanks to the functioning of this government, the citizens of this Republic and our country lose independence, lose freedom, freedom to decide, because the government has lost its powers with its weakness and economic policy and has put us in a position that the government does not decide on economic issues in this country, the IMF, the World Bank, wonders the European Commission, so when they send you a memo that you need to iron this out, then it must be done. This government doesn't run this country. Someone else runs this country, which is why you have deprived the citizens of this country of their freedom, as the most important principle of one state's functioning. I don't want to mention other segments in society, because it's not a topic right now. But in the area of economics, the government is not own and does not make decisions, because this country has brought into such a difficult debt state that someone else, or whoever is the trustee, decides what prices there will be and how much inflation there will be. Budget deficit - this is where it's already said how big it is for the first four months. Catastrophasic indicators. This government has been in debt almost a billion and a half this year. And what's the government's additional response? Let's move some more cargo on the citizens. Let's load them up with extra fuel. Let's load them up with an extra increase in all the other prices that fuel affects. And it's actually a mirror of this government's work. The reason is that it is being appealed or expected that the market will regulate the price competition itself and that it may come to normal. That's not what the state can influence. The state is affecting this part of it, when it comes to excise burdens and VAT. Well, that's where the country is particularly prominent, and now it's additionally burdening its citizens. This means that farmers will have more expensive diesel in, like, three dinars in a week. Is this a contribution to the development of agrarian policy? On the one hand, the state refused to pay subsidies to farmers over 10 hectares, and now additionally burdens farmers with fuel prices. So, what citizens need to know, that you are in the most serious way possible, on the edge of a formulation that I am not going to use right now, endangering the independence of this country and that you are a mere puppet from those centres that make decisions on your behalf, and the price is paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And it has to stop. I hope that after the next election, it will come true. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55882	MP Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55883	Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, unfortunately, Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic is not here, and I believe he should have been here because he was the advocate of this politically motivated change of excise duties. Because, as Mr. Ugljanin said, this is about small movements, which is why it is clear that in this case the backdrop is a political decision or one decision based on the phrase that, allegedly, the EU has no alternative in economics, politics etc. At the very beginning of the bill, it is evident that it is a single absurdity because the bill is called for in Article 97. The constitution, where the Republic of Serbia is determined to regulate and secure the tax system. I responsibly argue that there is no single tax policy in the EU. And you certainly know that in economic theory, for example, in the Public Finance textbook, which is used at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, it is clear that excises are also part of tax policy. There may be monetary policy, there is for 17 EU countries, because the European Central Bank is leading the process of the euro, but there is no single tax policy at EU level. So, it is absolutely absurd for the EU to send us through a second-rate or third-rate body such as the European Commission, I am responsible for saying that this is a third-rate body in relation to the EU Council, in relation to the European Council and other EU institutions, because it does not pass laws, it is only preparing the laws conditionally, therefore, in fact one in practice, the Secretariat of the European Council and the EU Council has sent an opinion that seems relevant only to this communication that Mr Djelic has with them and vice versa. It is, however, a replacement of thesis, and it should be made clear that there would be no dilemma in our public. The law also states that the aim of this law is to bring the structure of taxation into line with EU standards and to further phased harmonisation of excise policy with EU regulations and standards. Since there is no single tax policy at EU level, therefore, this is one deception. It is simply something that may exist only in some virtual propaganda that is being done here in the Republic of Serbia, but in practice it does not exist. Secondly, in the bill, and we see this, it is a new manners that every law and bill have some pathetic statement of compliance between the rights of the Republic of Serbia and the Aki communiqué or with EU law. In that pathetic statement, on compliance with EU law, which does not exist in this tax area, we have an invitation to the Lisbon Treaty. This is an actual "constitution" of the EU, 90% of these provisions have been taken over from the "constitution", which states that Article 110 and Article 111 allow no Member State to have more taxes than those existing for the internal market. Here, again, you see deception, it is the Member States, and for products exported to the territory of some of the Member States there must be a reduction in fiscal burden. We have members 110th and 111th in force for the EU. We're not even a candidate yet, and if God knows we won't be. Unfortunately, this bill does not mention Article 113. The Lisbon Treaty, which says that the EU Council, not the European Commission, I repeat again, which is a third-rate body in the EU, adopts measures relating to harmonisation of tax and excise legislation, to the extent that this harmonisation is necessary to ensure the functioning of the internal market. It is about the Council, a body which is legislator and government, and which does not exist in political theory, that only exists in this political and economic system, such as the EU. Because, you'll admit, in normal systems, both national and federal, and whatever you want, it's impossible for one government to adopt laws. It exists only in the EU, this nakaradna system, which is trying to apply here. This is another proof that the European Council has not come forward on this issue, which is allegedly so important for our economy and the state. What happens next? In this pathetic statement of compliance that exists in the draft law, there is again one delusion, and this time in a legal and not economic sense, and it is said that the bill is called for by two EU Council directives, I repeat the Council and not the European Commission, these are: Council Directive 2003/96 and Directive 95/96. I am responsible, and here is the translation of the Lisbon Treaty, that it does not exist and that in the legal theory, as regards Aki communitre, it does not use the name of the directive and that it is a deception. It is a guideline and it is a legal act declaring only one objective, leaving national authorities and national institutions at will to use their methods and means to meet it. It is a legal act far from being a directive, but it is a semi-binding instruction that applies to Member States, not to countries that are not even EU candidates. So it is a one-false thing, and it was probably here to replace the instruction with a regulation or with a decision that is binding entirely on the Member States. However, some precise definitions should be used in the legal and economic sense, as it is obvious that these directives are, as far as I can tell, not referring to Serbia, even if Serbia were an EU member state they would not be binding fully, as Mr Stevanovic said. Because you saw that double excise duties exist, and that was said by former Minister Diana Dragutinovic, in the EU's first country on the economic path, which is Germany, and in the second, and that is France. So it is about double standards, one deception and imposing a political requirement by the EU. Because if the first and second economies in the EU do not have harmonised excise duties, they already have several types of excise duties, why would Serbia do so. Please, that's a logical conclusion, because if they don't apply those standards and instructions, why should we apply it? Why would we do that, if this applies directly to our company, because NIS is our company, not only Russian, 49% of NIS is a Serbian company. We can't say, here, now some evil Russians have come and taken our NIS. That's not true. The company is 49% of our company, which also contributes to our budget. Let's not replace the thesis, that's what this is about. It is a kind of political and economic provocation that we told Mr Djelic when he was here, because it was just a meeting of the non-binding Committee for the Application of the Transitional Trade Agreement that on March 22nd or the day before the visit of the Russian prime minister, therefore, it is a matter of one provocation, of unfair competition and, after all, you have in our media, open, that on March 2, 2011, some two weeks before that, the Association of Oil Companies of Serbia, and it is not an exact name because there was both MOL and INA and OMV, requested a change of excise duty. It is here that the EU is behind Austrian, Hungarian and other EU companies and that this is a type of pressure on industrial property owned by the Republic of Serbia of 49%. This is the truth that cannot be denied by any phrase that the EU has no alternative, that it is a directive, and it is not a directive, but a manual, and that it is a matter of some fulfilment of European standards that do not comply with the two main EU countries in Germany and France. So, if we were to analyse all this process, starting from the Transition Trade Agreement beyond the SAA and this shameful proposal, we would come to a conclusion that has been known in the legal theory since the time of colonialism. One party, in this case, the Serbian side, has a limited contractual capacity, as the other party imposes its economic requirements on it, weighs its firms, in this case oil companies from Austria and Hungary, and leads to a concrete result, that citizens of the Republic of Serbia, due to a political phase, have no alternative, suffer major and harmful consequences. Today, according to this proposal, there will be a smaller increase, and tomorrow there will be a bigger increase, we will pay for more expensive fuel, because the EU allegedly has no alternative. In that case, by studying this text of the Lisbon Treaty, Mrs. Tanja Miscevic, former director of the Association Office, has heard the news, and we come to another conclusion that will certainly be interesting to you. In fact, it is that if one day, God forbid, Serbia becomes a member of the EU, it will also have to apply Article 28. The Lisbon Treaty, which calls for this bill, which means common customs duties towards third countries. Therefore, the only export chance of the Republic of Serbia will be abolished, which is the Free Trade Treaty and the Free Trade Treaty with Turkey will be abolished. Therefore, the EU without an alternative leads to that all these contracts, to the greatest extent with the Russian Federation, which have the potential to be a developmental opportunity for our industry and our exports, will be abolished because of some dream, some myth about the EU without an alternative. It is very simple and very clear, if we look at this bill, without a biased approach, without passion, you see that this is a harmful law, that it has been passed for political reasons, and in this sense we as a party that is against EU membership, not only for political reasons and kidnapping of KIM, but also for economic reasons, we will vote against this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55884	The People's Messenger Miroslav Markicevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55885	I was just about to say Mr. Secretary, but the gentleman's coming out. As far as the New Serbia Parliamentary Group is concerned, we will not vote in favour of the law amending the Excise Act for the reasons cited by Parliament Group President Velimir Ilic and Mrs Zlata Djeric. I'll try another reason to state why we won't vote. The very name of amending the Excise Act would try to bring most citizens closer, to understand what it is. Folkly speaking, this is a law on fuel collection, both gasoline and diesel. New Serbia's parliamentary group, these months, has been asking the competent ministers, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the key question, why in Serbia is the most expensive fuel in the region, if we all know that oil barrels, the world's price of oil in dollars, has dropped dramatically in themselves? We also see this from the behaviour of Mr Dusan Bajatovic, who has been silent about the increase in gas prices, because the price of gas should be reduced due to the value of the dollar that has fallen, due to the decline in the value of the euro and we do not see the reason, while prices have been controlled, while NIS has not been privatised, I admit that I do not know whether the formula that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has determined the price of fuel is still valid. And then it was known that 15-day parameters were taken and it was known if the world market price of oil increased, unfortunately, but then it was easy to explain to the citizens. Easy? It's never easy to explain the accumulation of any price, let alone fuel prices, which is why prices increase and a number of other products, but then we had parameters. It is now unclear why it is cheaper in Croatia, why it is cheaper in Montenegro, why it is cheaper in Macedonia. This is one of the topics that I wanted, in this short time that I have, to apostrophe, and the other is political, not in the sense that Mr Mirovic spoke, although I agree with everything he said, but in a political sense that all the negative decisions for most Serbian citizens, almost everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or which he proposes to this Parliament, are justified by EU requirements. I don't think that's correct for the citizens of Serbia, that it appears to citizens of additional animosity towards the EU and the rules we need to follow to join the EU or at least to be a candidate, and there are almost half of those citizens who are against joining the EU. It is not true, therefore, that someone from the EU has asked for excise duties to be increased to certain types of fuel, but they have asked for equalisation. Therefore, political pressure has not been put on us to increase fuel prices, but it has been a requirement or political pressure to equate these excise duties for imported and domestic fuels. This means that the government of the Republic of Serbia could have taken this smaller tariff and that, if the fuel is not cheap at least, since it is the most expensive in the region, it remains at the price it now has. Therefore, the report of the Fiscal Council for the first quarter of 2011 shows what happens to the budget, and additional costs for the satellite are seen. When the time comes, New Serbia's MPs will talk about it. The government thinks that this way, by increasing excise duties, by supplementing the budget since pension payments and all social contributions will come in the crisis, as inflation is much higher than projected and real revenues in the budget are much lower. It seems to me that it would be better to charge the budget if this law had prescribed excise duties on the lower tariff and that the higher revenue would be in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55886	Five minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Ivan Andric has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55887	The Honorable Chairman, the minister is gone, it may be better, I don't understand how Minister Ugljanin didn't ask himself this morning when his phone rang and when they told him – let's go to the Assembly to defend the law, why not draw someone else from the ruling coalition here, those who are usually bearers of the good news. For this bad news, it's the SPS, and now the Ugljanin, by the time it gets to the DS, there's going to be a choice. I don't think that should affect our debate, because otherwise it doesn't affect his presence in the ongoing debate, but we just have to say some things that the minister here said, which are totally amazing. First, he tried to explain to us that the gas excise in Serbia in January, hence the price of fuel, was made to protect the domestic market. It's probably a unique example in the world when someone raises the price of a product by protecting the domestic market. Now we can assume he was referring to the protection of the domestic producer. We can assume that, but he's gone, there's no domestic producer, so it remains pretty unclear what Mr. Ugljanin was going to say. Faced with what he said far from the truth and from reality, to put it that way, then he actually said what is the essence, which is, that excises are now rising to solve problems. I only mention some, it's a PIO fund, which Minister Ugljanin mentioned, and he tried to play a little bit with opposition MPs, because when we say why the state spends so much, and they say, well, do you take children out of your mouth, for God's sake, because we're monsters, and the government is, like, one institution that takes care of all of us, so I'd like to ask, if the minister doesn't come and the prime minister can answer, it doesn't matter, whoever, if he finds it appropriate, well, how did these problems happen if they happened now or were set up last week, so now we're raising the price of fuel or we't expect it, how did we not deal with a little cost reduction? Anyone who's rationally involved in the economy would probably look at their own expenses, and not just get as much as he thinks they can. The reason for the price hike is so far away from reality, and if you look at the purely economic aspect, counterpart Obradovic has tried to explain that you can't raise the price as far as you think you can, but as long as someone is ready to buy that fuel. It's another delusion, to be gentle, because I don't expect the chairman to be tolerated by the dictionary we use, that little increase looks about like this: it's an increase of almost seven dinars per litre, when you count VAT, and that's from here to Valjev 70 dinars. Maybe it's a little bit for the Minister of Ugljanin, I can't say I envy him, but it's an honor. I don't think for Serbian citizens, 60-70 dinars per 100km is a small increase. In Belgrade's crowds, it's even more, who knows how many cars they spend here. It is an absolutely unacceptable increase in fuel prices. On the other hand, it's impossible to avoid in any way and magic, which the government wants to do, not to reflect on the price of all products in broad consumption, because only if someone is producing something in front of the sale, without needing any re-promatter, but rather making something out of mud and selling it at a gig, it doesn't affect something like that, but mostly every product that any citizen buys, that product has to come from somewhere, and then it counts on this so-called transport price, which includes the price of fuel, so 7 dinars per litre, so figure out how much it is. So then inflation will start and then there will be a real cut in profits, pensions. So let's go back to this PIO fund again – what are we going to raise to help the PIO fund? So what do we say, for example, why the excise duty to be 49.5, which isn't 200 dinars, what do we care? What was offered as an explanation is that it is an EU request. I'll speak politically here. I don't think there's a need to speak humanly, because of course the EU has never asked anyone to raise the price or reduce it. We can even put that into a set of nonsense in the political life that's being heard. But it's very dangerous, because by blaming the EU for all the bad you do, what exactly is the government's plan? Is the real political plan of the Serbian government that we should all hate the EU? Is that a political plan? Is that the Agenda you're working on? We arrested the young man because they asked us to. Now we're standing by and we're waiting to see what we're going to get - what kind of carrot and what size we're going to get. (Employees get, "That's right, that's right! Now they've asked us to raise the price of fuel so citizens can starve, well, what we're going there at all. What do we need the EU for? What do we need it for? (Employees get, "That's right, you're right! ) Let me just tell you that, so I'm going to leave my colleague who's going to explain something to you about farmers, and about this ingenious proposal of yours, there's one more thing, and that's a state procedure at the price of a liter of fuel, it's currently 0.72 cents when you adopt this law, per liter of fuel. Do you know what that means? If they were to give us fuel and NIS, and OMV, and MOL, and I don't know who else exists, we'd be obliged to pay 70 dinars to compensate for this non-domestic, non-economic, inefficient, non-European, non-progressive, no government behavior. That's what we do. And the argument about the roads – I'm really embarrassed to comment. We'll wait until the end of the year, and we'll see how the impact of the action policy has affected our travel infrastructure. We expect, today we say, the Minister of Ugljanin, the visionary, to appear here in December and tell us – how many miles has been done by this small, small, ovary increase in excise duties. And don't think we'll forget it. At least LDP will remember very closely what is said here in the Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55888	Seven minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. I read in an unintentional omakt that Marina Toman is in order, but she is a National MP, Milica Vojić Markovic, and Marina Toman, a national MP, due to a change in the order of members of the DSS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55889	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I cannot say hello, and I am very sorry that he came out at this time when I want to talk about this argument that was given to us under this law which, of course, should not defend Minister Ugljanin, but should defend the finance minister, and this is our quick Prime Minister Cvetkovic. This explanation and this analysis of the effects of the law really offends common sense. You wrote here that what needs to be collected is the EU's orders. Why didn't she order you to fuck? You can draw that conclusion from this. Furthermore, you explained that an increase in VAT could lead to an increase in fuel prices. Not that it could, it inevitably leads to an increase. I'm not going to deal with this stuff right now, because there's no minister here to answer that, and I really think someone needs to deal with it, at least the one who's obliged to read this. I want to tell you that Serbia has the most fuel excises in the Balkans, as you like to say, in the region, and for God's sakes, they are the largest in Europe. Even though the price of crude oil on the world market has been steadily dropping, in the last month, Serbian drivers have no idea about it, because at our pumps the fuel price is increasing. At the time of Vojislav Kostunica, when salaries were higher by 130 euros than today, fuel and a liter of fuel cost 68 dinars. It's twice as expensive today, and we have a self-proclaimed, socially responsible government. In addition to all other car taxes, which on average have been raised by 450 euros, therefore, taxes have become a luxury for an increased car by 450 euros, with the price of fuel that you will increase by this law, the car has become a luxury for the average citizen of Serbia, just as it did in the time of Slobodan Milosevic. Gentlemen, in the '90s, this is the second time we've had it. Isn't that a bit much?- I'm sorry. On 19 May, the government of Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic adopted amendments and additions to the Excise Act that abolished various excise duties on different types of fuel introduced in early 2011. How did you even introduce such excises, such selective excises? I must remind you, it is interesting, because of those who do not follow this regularly and do not think about it every day, like us MPs, that the ruling majority in this assembly then adopted the controversial SPS amendment, the MPs who voted for it have proved that neither they have read the SAA nor have any idea what it says. Of course, they didn't think of it until the moment until the European Commission drew attention to them, that by voting for the disputed amendment, Serbia violated a transitional trade agreement with the EU. It is now interesting how the government and MPs of the ruling coalition later justified themselves to the media and all the reasons why they voted for it. So some said they were just listening to their head of parliament, who didn't even know what the agreement said, and some said they had full confidence in their coalition partners and therefore voted in favour of the disputed amendment. Of course, without a shred of shame, they thus showed how they feel about the laws that they have passed here and what their government is doing. And Serbia would also be ashamed to have such MPs and to sit here without reading the laws. And now I'm going to say something about amendments and additions to the Excise Act itself. This law predicted that all types of motor gasoline are subject to a single excise duty. Watch out, now he's increased that excise. The excise duty should now amount to 49.50 dinars per litre, while for diesel-fuel excise, i.e. the state's imposition, will amount to 37 dinars per litre. This, of course, could not lead to, but would inevitably lead to an increase in fuel prices. The gas will go up for 4.50 dinars, and the price of the elevator will go up by just over two dinars, plus VAT. Therefore, it will not amount to 4.50 dinars, but will amount to about 7 dinars. The minister said it was a small increase. I would love it, very much, if the citizens of Serbia also thought it was a small increase. But in this way, the state will inherit only these changes and additions to the law, earn about 10.7 billion dinars. The budget is empty and every patch that can help is welcome, because loans will no longer be granted to such a government and to Serbia that is overindebted. But I must remind you, gentlemen of the government, the pockets of Serbian citizens are also short. Indeed, someone who calls himself a socially responsible government doesn't make sense that all the burden of the crisis re-emerges on the back of citizens, very calmly, in the heritage of these 10.7 billion dinars. The minister really insulted us here when he explained that this increase would go to PIO, for social, for roads, for child protection. I'm sorry, I can tell you from the position of citizens for what all citizens are for and how it takes those funds that you're trying to take away from them, by taking away their jobs and salaries, and every salary has to impose 100 euros on Mr. Boris Tadic and the gentlemen of this government. And citizens should pay for their children's education, and food, and rent and utility and everything else. There, a nearby government, as you say -- in the region, Croatia, gave up two euro-cents per litre in March and reduced excise duties by so much. And she wanted to help her citizens through this crisis, but now Croatian excises are less than Serbian by 15-20%. Here, we, MPs of the DSS, will show you how it is possible to get to what the minister said very vividly, "and goats and money", i.e. to be good to the citizens, and that the state also has in the budget these funds. The first thing is, therefore, to reduce the excise on fuel and to equate with the excise on fuel that exists in the region. What's that supposed to lead to? It would increase fuel consumption in Serbia itself, quite logically, so the budget would be charged, if not more, and at least at the same level as today. Citizens would pay cheaper fuel, the state would charge the budget. Therefore, it would be good for both citizens and the state. That's the story of "jaret and money." Secondly, foreigners who only go through Serbia today, not buying fuel at our pumps and not paying for everything that a Serbian citizen has to pay for, because there is nowhere to buy fuel, would buy fuel here, these are funds that would also go into the budget, which are now not in the budget. Don't forget that it's vacation time, that there's increased transition through Serbia. That would also mean the Serbian budget. This way, the state loses this asset because of its debauchery. Don't forget that there are our drivers, those rare fortunates, citizens of Serbia who travel abroad on vacation, so they don't buy fuel to their final points, but they only buy fuel to the border with Serbia, they buy cheaper fuel there. They'd buy fuel here, too. And those funds would go to the budget. But this government is obviously very loose and very short-sighted and very nervous because the elections are close to it. Here is another piece of information that is very interesting, which can also mean for the citizens of Serbia. The fuel stock market is about 60 Euro cents, so much the state takes on taxes and excise duties. That means a citizen on every liter of fuel he buys, another gift to the state. Furthermore, if we took just one more example, and that, for example, is a conditional producer of the price of one liter of fuel, a citizen at the pump would not pay one dinar for that fuel, but would pay 60 dinars. That difference between one and 60 goes to the state, because it doesn't want to be deprived, and it definitely takes the citizens' skin off their backs. So this is all information that would be important to someone who would sit here today, represent this law and understand what I'm talking about. The minister's gone, even though he's not an adequate minister. What citizens need to think about is – elections are close, keep this in mind what I have told you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55890	Nine minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is a folk letter from Marina Toman, followed by a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55891	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to amend the Law establishing excise duties on petroleum products is another in a series of evidence that the Serbian government is making laws under the EU directive. The bill amending the law is another proof that the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing laws that are in the interest of the EU, not in the interest of the state of Serbia and its citizens. The bill also proves that the government lacks political courage to take any step towards legal solutions, decisions that respect the real needs of the economy and society here. What do you get with these changes? Brussels definitely gets confirmation that its recommendations in Serbia are being made by the government and that they listen and accept. Brussels has also definitely received another confirmation that there is a secure "partner" in the Serbian government, which is always ready to work on its damage. In this way, the EU has definitely satisfied its interests, i.e. the interests of companies from EU member states. However, the question arises – what did the Serbian government get? The government has definitely shown that the government is without its own policy. What did the citizens of Serbia get with this proposal? They received confirmation that the Serbian government is still working to break their standard of living. Fuel prices in Serbia are so expensive, and with this proposal they will be even more expensive. Also, the question arises – how will they affect inflation growth and a number of other things? By choosing the most expensive variant of equating excise rates to domestic and import oil derivatives, the government has not only further brought down the standard of Serbian citizens, but also seriously endangers the business of the Russian-Serbian NIS company. The government has reduced the profits of the Russian-Serbian NIS and dividends, which can be poured into the budget based on the NIS share in action. The government mainly resorts to budgeting by increasing excise duties, although there are also a set of other solutions available. However, more excise duties are forgotten by the government that they do not always mean more inflows, as they are also held for a fall in traffic. However, why does no one in this country ask a question – what about customs? Why does the government avoid acknowledging the reality that the EU budget is losing losses due to the implementation of the SAA? Despite the signing of the SAA and promises, the economic situation, as we can see, has not improved in Serbia. On the contrary, revenue in the budget based on customs has been reduced, and this trend continues. Last year they amounted to about 100m euros, and this year it is expected to be even bigger. The government's determination to increase budget revenue based on excise duties on oil derivatives, and this burden of fuel from domestic production is extremely hypocritical. Also, it's very important that we point out a few more things. If Serbia has made a clear fiscal discrimination with the original version of the law, as the European Commission has argued, and has not, then this version of the law must have made the government discriminate against its ownership in the NIS and its citizens. The European Commission, namely, accused the government of breaking the EU-Serbia Transitional Trade Agreement, as NIS is no longer state-owned. Is that what the government may have given up its stake in NIS without the public being informed about it? Isn't it just the former Minister of Mining and Energy Skundric, initially claiming that Serbia should have an increased interest in NIS, as it still has its stake in NIS, Serbian citizens share in NIS and a large number of workers are employed in NIS. The fact that the government, after the objections that came from the European Commission, changed its views, is a different story. If so, he confirmed, and now the former minister, Skundric, after the Brussels ugly, has changed his stance and said -- we will have to, in order not to harm our further European integrations, to accept the EU's decision on excise duties. That sentence, in fact, reflects the essence of the government's political action. Could Serbian citizens expect the government to take a step, make a decision that will not need to be explained by the words – yes, but to your criticism we answer, everything has been made in line with EU requirements. The government thinks her job ends by adopting some law, makes a decision at the EU's request. The government is not considering the consequences of its application in practice. He does not think about how he will reflect on the Serbian economy, the population and a number of other things. The question arises – does the government protect the interests of citizens and Serbia or protect the interests of the EU? We believe that she settled definitely on the other side. The question could also be asked – could this happen in another country, say, Germany, France? If we wanted to simplify things, the question arises – could this happen in a serious company? For example, would the owner of a single company or co-owner of a single company, at the request of a competing company, increase the prices of its products and thus become uncompetitive, lose profits, lose the ability to invest in further development, put the number of employees at risk? It couldn't have happened. The only thing in this case is not business business policy, but the national economy with which the Serbian government is playing dangerously. These are just some of the reasons why the SRS will definitely not support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55892	Seven minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Time is available for two minutes and 15 seconds, followed by a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55893	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within these two minutes, I can only resume. It definitely collects fuel during this month, at least four and a half dinars and maybe more. Therefore, this is due to those unfortunate amendments to the Excise Act, and in fact these new amendments, those amendments to the Excise Act. One matrix can be seen in which the Government is acting, that is, this parliamentary majority and with regard to the adoption of amendments and additions to the Excise Act, as well as with regard to some other decisions. I would pull a parallel between these excise laws and between the government's decision on subsidies to farmers. It's very important to pull that parallel, since it's the same matrix. It is, in fact, that both decisions are shortsighted, irresponsible, with the greatest damage and the greatest consequences suffered by citizens, i.e. the economy of this country. The excise duties that were established in January of the month, which we are now changing, in fact, introduced one double standard of tax burden on the economy, i.e. citizens. This double standard has also been applied to farmers, and I think that we have witnessed that Vojvodina was blocked for a week, for that very reason, because the government decided with one short-sighted decision to subsidize only those hurricanes up to 10 hectares, and then after the bargaining decided to be 30 hectares, so it reached 50 hectares and at the end of 100 hectares, after the blockade to that extent threatened the entire economy of Vojvodina, as well as the citizens, free flow of goods, services and people, so that it endangered the province's relationship to the Republic government. I think it is inadmissible that in this way the government, or parliamentary majority, should refer to all those who ultimately have to bear the consequences of paying the damages of one irresponsible, irresponsible decision, or law, which are in fact contrary to other principles and the free market, and the Interim Trade Agreement, and the SAA, etc. Therefore, we must really keep in mind whenever we pass laws, that is, whenever we exercise control over the implementation of these laws, to determine whether these laws really comply with these European standards, because otherwise, it is only a declaration of support for this European path, and certainly no real support, because this law on the amendments and additions of excise duties tells us so. Apparently, the government reacted... (President: The time available has been used. )......................................................................................................... to certain pressures, and then we came into a situation to decide now on excise duties, and not to decide on excise duties, but, precisely, we decide to re-gather fuel, which will rock the citizens who use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55894	The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are today participating in a rather painful debate. Maybe one of the citizens who's watching today's session will think, well, it's no different than many others, but this is a bit of a specific debate. It is, in fact, that the representatives of the government in Serbia, as they agreed to a conditionality policy by their so-called. A friend from Europe, so they did what they did with General Ratko Mladic, agreeing to the same conditioning policy when all other areas of life were at stake, and of course the economy and that, already, for many years, which results in a very poor material position for most Serbian citizens. The bill we are talking about today is the result of another condition for friends from Europe, although representatives of the authorities, who are not ready to call things a real name, have tried to wrap it up a little differently and have therefore written that the adoption of the excise law is necessary in order to bring the oil derivative tax structure into line with EU standards. We are constantly listening to stories of harmonising everything in Serbia with EU standards. We understand the desire of the authorities to meet many conditions, because their goal is to join the Union. I will not say that the government does not understand, because rather it will answer that it does not want Serbia's citizens to understand that they are living worse and that much of what it does, by justifying itself on the European path, does not bring any improvement to Serbian citizens, on the contrary, brings worse and worse today as well as tomorrow. A concrete example of what I'm talking about is today's agenda point, the change of excise duty on certain types of fuel. Otherwise, it is important to point out that the changes in excise duties were made less than six months ago, when the government decided to distinguish excise duties on fuel that is a Euro-quality and non-fuel. Before that, the amount was the same, regardless of the quality, then you predicted different amounts, well, here, after less than six months, it's equalized again, but at an amount that's higher. What does this tell the citizens of Serbia? It tells them that in power, untrustworthy people, people who do one thing today, but tomorrow they change the laws for a few months. Because of such behaviour, people realize that they can't plan anything, not in the short term, let alone in the long term, that in Serbia there is no speech about some stability and predictability. Because of the lower price of fuel, which was, of course, conditioned by the level of excise duty a few months ago decided to buy a vehicle, a car, a shop van, or a fork factory whose fuel plant is not the EVRO quality, so its decision was conditioned by the fuel price. Here, after a few months, he realizes that the fuel he benefits will cost the same as the fuel EVO quality, and the price will be evened by a certain higher amount, more precisely, of the amount that is now valid for the fuel of the EURO quality. The fact that someone planned to keep his costs lower, because it would save on fuel, obviously he was wrong, and now that this bill on amending the Excise Act is passed, the costs will be higher, and that will be a chain condition for the collection of everything. These increases will not only affect the business of all carriers that are among the largest consumers of oil products, although these increases are quite compromised. The increases will reflect maltenes on all actions. I've already mentioned the owners of the vans used for the transport of bread, the trucks for the transport of goods that they manufacture or transport to retail. We can't boast very much that in our factories, those who work, machines are used on electric power plants. Most factories use oil derivatives for both forks and loading shovels, for construction machines, bulldozers and many things. When you have more expensive fuel inputs, it is normal that it will affect the formation of prices that will be higher in the final products. So much for this government's care of businesses in Serbia. This gathering will reflect on every citizen of Serbia, whether he is a businessman or a consumer, directly or indirectly. The increase in fuel prices will also have a negative impact on farmers with whom the government has become aware of the road. In the course of the agricultural season, instead of being in their fields, farmers fought on asphalt for their rights. They received a promise that next year they would receive part of the subsidies they had been denied from the budget. Now the question is raised – and what will be the subsidies in the following year, how much will be allocated to farmers, and in what year will they be paid? Now diesel fuel for tractors will be more expensive, gasoline for irrigation engines more expensive, and, start-up subsidies by next year. One responsible government doesn't behave that way. It is also too much that fruit and vegetables are imported uncontrollably, so the prices of our producers have long become uncompetitive, and these government moves really go too far. As I said at the outset, these changes are being made because at the end of February, the European Commission ordered that excise duties be harmonised, because in their opinion a transitional trade agreement between the EU and Serbia was violated. However, the representatives of the authorities say it well – recommended harmonisation, but the fact is that for this authority their recommendations are binding. He's just trying to put it in a different termological way. The level of standard of citizens, that's what no one's even trying to think about. Because if it were to interest someone in power, they would have to understand that there are more than 700,000 people in Serbia living below the poverty line, where there is no job, according to official data from the National Service, more than 730 thousand unemployed, but this data is not accurate, because the National Employment Service of the one who is late one day to apply, takes off the record and has no right to apply. Many have lost hope after many years of reporting that they will ever get a job. If their application is not a condition for an overa medical book, they do not apply to the National Employment Service at all. Mr. Minister, who is not here at the moment, said in something that could be called the introductory word, that the higher amount of excise duties will bring a higher inflow of funds into the budget, so they will have more money for kindergartens and other budget expenditures. The government, which calls itself socially responsible, will never, by its own policies, create social cases that will then provide social assistance. It doesn't lead anywhere. We all know that there are more than 100,000 old people living below the poverty line in Serbia. In 2010, 120,000 children were hungry. These alarming data should be something that will force the government to start creating an ambience that will be suitable for opening new jobs, but not by shutting down the existing ones, because nothing is achieved. Only an increase in employment can ensure a regular flow of income into the budget. I will now make a comparison between the amount of the 2011 Budget Law planned to come from excise duties on oil derivatives with the 2010 amount. The 2010 budget provided for this revenue amounting to 65 billion and 500 000 dinars. When it was realized that these 500 grand couldn't be realized, the rebalancing was done and it was reduced to 65 billion. The rebalancing was made in November 2010, and immediately, in December, the 2011 Budget Law was adopted, and envisioned the revenue from excise duties on oil derivatives of 75 billion and 300,000 dinars, which means 10.3 billion more than could have been collected in the previous year. If today we had government representatives in charge of the budget and economic policy, it would be logical to ask them a question, what were they led to, which parameters showed them that this year they would have the opportunity to make this much higher income than excise taxes compared to the previous year? The fact that excise duties will be more, does not in itself mean that they will achieve the goal, because it can happen that traffic is falling, demand is reduced and these products are being used less, so there is a risk of less revenue being achieved in the budget than last year. The answer to this question will probably be given to us alone when the budget is rebalanced, and it will work for sure. I guess that's when the finance minister, as well as the Prime Minister, will attend. We will wait and if he does not respect the National Assembly, as he did not respect it today, there is a way, we will ask it in the form of a parliamentary issue, and then we will pass it on to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55896	11 minutes and 20 seconds were used. The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55897	Mrs. Komic, how much time do we have?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55898	You have 32 minutes and 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55899	Just enough time to process this topic. I have to draw your attention to the Rules of Procedure, so I really need to have a government representative present at the National Assembly session, I personally don't mind, I don't know what kind of person he is and when he sits here. For us from the SRS, it is important that citizens hear our views on topics that are on the agenda, because they, anyway, can't hear. I have to give you one instruction before I expose this matter that's on the agenda today. The government should be represented by someone who is an expert in excise duties. We currently have a '17 Plus' in the government. They're all experts in excises. And then I was thinking why exactly Mr. Suleyman Ugljanin came here, and then I came to the conclusion that he was best understood in the fuel. He can smell it when it's gasoline, and when it's oil, and it's the only criterion that he's got the strength to come today, to explain here that it's a small rise in price, i.e. the amount of excise duty very little, insignificant. Let's move forward, maybe Mrs. Komic will make this look like a continuation of yesterday's session, where we talked about funding political parties or political activities, and she did. This is the natural continuation of yesterday's session. Why? Here's to explain, and I'd like to ask you, Mrs. Comic, to respect me and to listen to me, so that you don't make a mistake when you interrupt me. Citizens should know, today the first to hear the debate came forward, the PUPS said, we support the bill and they said the same thing in December of last year. And in December of last year, there was excise, and it's rising now. Their message is next, we need money for the campaign. Likewise, last December they inserted this amendment into the text of the bill's proposal and those provisions that had not been amended by the bill, and then most of the 126 voted, European, I appreciate, you say openly that this is a European standard. There's a G17 plus, which has been transformed in the meantime, so it's become the URS, and they need money to decentralisation. Where's the money? Accize! There's a ZES in aggregate condition. I just can't believe no one called from the U.S., and there's not even Hope Kolundjia, and we just heard that she's the main culprit for forcing a coalition for that pro-European, proactive, pro-accessive, law in December of the month. That's how we came to the facts - they need money. Where's he gonna get the money? By equating the excise. So here, the word "equaling the amount of excise duties" is used to increase the amount of excise duties. But this increase sounds bad. And, this great expert of yours, Branimir Dimitrijevic Tucko, couldn't do the media differently. Both Tucko and Miki Rakic, since they are Boris Tadic, they have managed the country and they have come to the conclusion that the people must be distracted by October by very important topics. Of course, we're not involved. But I have to commend some of the debaters today, Mrs. Komic, don't mind me, the LDP has realised that 80% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia don't want to hear about the EU and the NATO Pact, that's progress and I support them. There have also been discussions here that you have deceived the EU. If you deceived them, they're stealing from us Kosovo and Metohija, they're going to take Vojvodina from us, they're going to take the Raska area from us, they're going in the final phase to make Dorichol Serbia, and if you've cheated on them, I have to support you. It's that heavy heart, I don't know if you're doing it honestly or not, but I have to be pragmatic and back you up. If you're "moaning" against the EU, it's an honor! So there is a chance that in mid-July, there will be normality, to see that no one has been in Serbia since you delivered Ratko Mladic, no one is more satisfied and nothing has changed in relation to NATO and the EU as our enemies towards the Serbian people. Nothing's changed! Now let's move on to these changes. You see, when it began to apply this new excise policy to oil derivatives, in January of this year, the SRS was silent. Why? To come to the surface of everything. The first thing that came to the surface were these discovery factors. There are many – and Sutanovac and Djelic, Čeda put it openly, he said, unlike these, that he did not fake – there must be no discrimination in excise politics depending on where the oil product comes from. And then you look at that law on amendments and additions from December and you see -- there's no word for "non-party", there's no word for "domestic production". You can see that the excise duties vary depending on the quality of the fuel. You're just thinking, why are they making such a fuss? Is it possible they made this much of a mistake? They didn't make a mistake, they got a warrant from Brussels. So, who's the most grizzly guy in this heist against Serbia? Those who are on the Brussels and NATO payroll are the most throatful. They have to prove their commitment to Euro-Atlantic integration everywhere, in every place, and it doesn't matter if it's stupid or not stupid. It must be inserted into the minds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the EU and NATO pact are straws of salvation for the Serb people, in order to forget that the NATO Pact and the EU are tearing up the Republic of Serbia. The EU and NATO Pact are to blame for not working in Serbia today! You, Janitors, contractors – it's just a means, it's a way, you know; you work, you work, you work, then go to the canal to replace your oil when you pass a certain mileage, so, if you need to renovate, it's renovated, if you need a new one, here and a new one, they blow on your neck, right away, and, to the canal, so that Serbia sinks, sinks, tones, tones, etc. Now I'd have to release some of Serbia's citizens from that fear. You see the media situation created in Serbia. It's very good to be Austrian in Austria. But you can't be a Serb in Serbia. How? Well, here, let's read a little bit of what you're calling for. The question is, what are you reading?- I'm sorry. You see, Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, hey, Holland, remember, Germany, Spain, France, Sweden, have excise policy – the amount of excise duty depends on the quality of fuel. Wait, please, why don't you be a little German about the excise policy in Serbia? Why didn't you do that? There, that's some standard of yours. There are no standards in the EU. What are you guys talking about? What standard exists in the EU? There's a standard of how to fool you, how to steal you, how to take your money. That's their standard. And you - the crash. All pro-European parties, heading Brussels, Luxembourg, Washington. You're hooking up! You're attacking the country! You're attacking the citizens! You're doing everything you can to get in the way of pre-accession funds. Oh, you'll never get to pre-accession funds, melt down there in Brussels. And they know how you end up here. Well, you've ruined their officers here, too. Now they're corrupt too. So, of course, you're under surveillance. You've been better off since the young man was delivered. I see Chanak is getting fatter. And Boris Tadic is kind of funnier, it looks like he's got his pocket full. But what about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? What's it gonna be? But that's why you're capable of ruining relationships with traditional friends! Here, not to enter the history of our friendship, but the Russians didn't bomb us. They never bombed us! And, Putin, when it was the other day, he said, "Well, when you go to the NATO Pact, then they'll be from your territory of the NATO Pact rocket directed towards Russia, we'll have to aim too." You want Russia to aim at Serbia! Well, are you out of your mind?- I'm sorry. Who authorized you to destroy these good relations with Russia? And then you're surprised that no traditional Serbian friends will come here. Well, they don't have anybody to deal with. They don't have anyone to talk to. They want to talk to Srdjan Milivojevic?- I'm sorry. Are you out of your mind? Well, who else is talking to him? You want to talk to Bozidar Djelic? Or what he beat the farmers by adopting all their demands? What are you guys talking about? Let's see what's been happening epochally since you accepted that SAA. Let me remind you, that's when one of the amendments made me think with my brain when I was 58. Well, that one, "Gandy from Bictine." You see, from that moment to this day, every year customs income is reduced, reduced, reduced, now we've come to about 65 to 70% of the lower customs revenue. But they figured out how to replace that hole, if they can't do it in debt. Then, by increasing the excise. Why? Accises hit citizens and the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Because there is also vomiting, refaction and release when it comes to, when we talk specifically about oil derivatives, about all the quantities that are in international road traffic – kerosene for fuel, etc. So, the EU does not hit them well, presses these handles, expected in October or November, and these are the European standards. And how European standard – to equalise the amount of excise duty on domestic fuels with imported fuel. Now, let's start a topic. Do you guys get a liter on that gun at gas stations? You don't win! Do you get 95 octane fuel, 98 octanes? You don't win! A stranger who has a octane fuel meter in the tank passes, so when someone pours 95 octanes at his pump, the computer touches that computer and says 89 octane. You don't want to solve it, you don't care. You don't care if it's a liter. No, I don't. You're interested in the EPP. And we're the only ones in Europe who produce D2 and this fuel of 95 octanes, no one produces it anymore. And now you want an excise for those two types of fuel to match those fuels from abroad with the Euro 5 standard. You say here -- you, the poor citizen, who drives a 20-year-old jugic, who uses domestic fuel, have the state to finance just like Tucko, Krle, Shaper, Gilas and all those who drive 150,000-euro jeeps. Where did you get your moral right?- I'm sorry. Excise politics must also take care of, among other things, certain things. They're calling for vomiting and refaction. I'm sick of it, big of it. Well, how come the Germans don't want you to load the fuel used in agriculture and basic production? What's the deal with the refaction? Do you pay me back 49 dinars or give me back 37? I'm interested in paying 37, so give me back 37, not 49. There's a system of large numbers, but you're not interested in it at all. You have 126. It was European for you in December, and it's European for you in June. What is the only constant between those two European times you've chosen? Serbia's collapse! You're doing that job here. I hear the NIS Russian company. How can it be a Russian company? She's mixed, I guess. Well, it's mixed. She wondered very little if Serbia would enter into the arrangement. It's a European interest. What are you against the EU? Well, the South Stream isn't because of Serbia, we're just a passing station. What's wrong with you people? You don't know what you're talking about. You are able to do everything and everything through this Tuck, Shaper, Gilas, over these bought minutes, over the ordered B92, Women in Black, Borka Skojevka, Natasa Kandić etc., you are all able to present as epochal. What do you want, to scare the citizens? How much more can you scare the citizens? And in this rally on June 13th, which NATO will be looking forward to here, which will bring the criminals back to the scene, only now many more, 69 states. What can you do to scare someone else? You can't scare anything. We have submitted only two amendments to which we wish to determine the amount of excise duties, starting primarily from the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and respecting the interests of the Republic of Serbia and that partner, a friend from Russia, who managed to invest some funds in the NIS. Why is this hack on the move? Because in December 2010, Zoran Djindjic and Novakovic's Regulation ceased to apply, when only NIS could import and process. And then you picked up the story. Why don't you say -- NIS, too, imports of EVRO diesel, because it doesn't make it in Serbia, and unleaded of 95 European quality and unleaded of 98 European quality. And where's the monopoly? Is there a monopoly? So, what tomorrow, if some from abroad who are present here, like Pacolli and these others, are closing taps because they have no interest in working, do you want to leave Serbia without energy? You'd like to drive out a Russian company now. Why aren't you like "Ju-es style-u"? You sold it to Banbadova. Have you regulated any price with them? No, they're melting all the guns, the weapons, the tanks! And they made extra profit here. What is your policy? Someone needs to respect you as some politicians. Well, it's clear to you that I can't wait to come to power, to be the prison manager for DS, for all the evil you've done to this people in the last 11 years. Here, in my excise policy, what do you blame the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for showing this kind of hatred at every turn? Who's using D2? Who uses unleaded from domestic production of 95 octanes? Poor girl in Serbia. She's supposed to pay excises in the same way as those who drive jeeps! Other companies present on our market, which import European quality fuel from their refineries across Europe, have 15-17 dinars of net earnings per litre. What are they threatened and who are you representing here? Say one move you've made in 11 years, and it's an interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There's no move, no damage to the damage, and then they tell us that the excise has to increase due to pensions. Well, it's the pensions that put you in charge. Well, you're in charge of spending, and because of excise duties, they should go for pensions, so if it's not for pensions, then it's for child benefits, if it's not for child benefits, then it's for education, and if it's not for education, it's for health care. So, which area did you regulate?- I'm sorry. And that's why the MPs are silent today. Now, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they take it from your pockets only by European regulations! Europe has been ruling in Serbia for 11 years. These are the European standards by which you live today. This is for Serbia. That's why you can't be the German in Serbia, to feel like you're in Germany. No, Serbia will be on its way to the EU forever, it will be a permanent patient state, until they reach their standard -- 100,000 citizens more to die than they are born in Serbia, and the swan song should be played by these here. This is how they run the country! (Be still, Boris Tadic, sit the fuck down! And how long is that? What do you expect? The increase in excise duties is inescapably pulling back the grey economy. That's, I guess, familiar. And now you have a lot of fuel in the gray zone. It doesn't manifest in the way it used to be, because it can still be found at gas stations, but it exists and you know it very well, and you don't want to regulate that part, you don't want to protect the consumer, did you buy a liter, as it is possible, you have a car, a tank of 50 liters, and the one at the pump poured 65 liters? He poured fuel past the technical manual for the car. You don't want to regulate it, and it's known that the system is finished, on the computer, and on those who do the gambling and who finish the job. That's where the state shuts up. In terms of fuel quality, did you do something about it? No, but we need money, it doesn't matter where they come from, but we need them. Let me just remind you that it's been changing with excise duties for the past year and a half. In early 2009 for all types of motor gasoline, except the EURO unleaded 98 and EVRO Premium unleaded 95, the excise tax was 42 dinars per litre, and then in mid-2009 they changed it to 44 dinars, and at the end of last year it was raised to 45 dinars. As for this second category – EURO unleaded 98, EURO Premium unleaded 95, in early 1995 there were 26 dinars, raised to 30 in mid-2009, and in December last year you raised to 49.50 dinars. And I have to compare this category - oil gas, in early 2009 there were 13 dinars per kilogram, in mid-2009 it was raised to 15 and last December you raised to almost 18 dinars per kilogram. Of course, for years I've been talking about biodiesel and these environmental fuels, and it can't possibly get into the excise policy of the Republic of Serbia. Everyone says it's justified, they come from the ministry, etc. Why not apply this standard that 10% of production should be biodiesel, very important for agricultural production, because according to some standards, a tractor should no longer use these other diesels but because of the environmental and the fact that it is moving on a processed surface? But that doesn't interest you, you're interested in the amount, the charge, how to get it into the budget and how to schedule it, if possible by some symmetry, relative presence, and power of the parties that make up the government. And it's the motto of this government. There is no interest in citizens, there is no interest in Serbia, there is nothing stable. That's why it seems to some at times that it's auctioned, banged, etc., and the red line, and we share Kosovo, and we share Mitrovica, and we share that, and we share this, and we negotiate, and we do not negotiate. The stories are being inserted to cover up the essence, and the essence is this reality. Reality is not good in the Republic of Serbia. You should be concerned when you hear how many people are silent, picking themselves up, in their own beards, talking to themselves, 80% of them, remember, not wanting to hear about the EU, the NATO Pact and not wanting to hear about those parties that lead us to the EU and NATO Pact. Worry a little, be sure, in the next election, citizens will control elections, not commissions, election committees. They're no longer ready for that kind of prank and scam. You'll find it hard to find an ordinary man who agrees to this, because he sees that there's no use, only long-term damage. That's the damage we keep talking about here - it's the wrong way, you can't go this way. (The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: But he is a true leader. Hold still, Boris, hold still, in the corner! You see...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55900	People's MP, I ask you to refrain from showing your will to completely degrade both the session and the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly. I listen to you carefully, you walk along the edge of breaking the Rules of Procedure and at the moment when you cannot resist, I ask you to refrain. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55901	Does that mean when someone's telling me I have to keep my mouth shut? Just tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55902	That means exactly what I said, to refrain from demeaning and destroying the reputation of the National Assembly, you are on the verge of violating the various provisions of the Rules of Procedure with the content of your speech. I listen to you very carefully, but you don't listen to me. I've already said this. So I make it very clear what it is that the MP should be reminded of how to behave during the session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55903	Okay, what do I do, the rules are clear. Who's to blame for being in opposition. Okay. Mrs. Comic, these two types of fuel that the SRS claims to have a lower amount of excise duties account for 30-50% of total consumption in the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about D2, mainly, it's the basic production, well, and our agriculture, I don't dispute the fact that there are now modern tractors that now use quality diesels etc. But if you want to develop Serbia, you have to take care of each other and define excise policy. She has to be, in a way, developmental. You know, John Diri exists in Vojvodina, but there's no Prokuplje, there's no Kursumlia, there's some 20-year-old IMT, and there's a D2 of ideal fuel for them. And with those refactions and those vomitings, and here you've narrowed down to the landowners, to authorized distributors, you've cut off that system. You know, there are people who process their assets, and they're not registered agricultural households, so they don't use that benefit. You want to put them in excise politics in the same relationship as the ones driving the most luxurious cars. I would ask that in the next appearances when people from the Government of the Republic of Serbia come, to promote themselves as a standard, you know, according to this new Rules of Procedure, there must always be a statement of compliance of proposed changes with some European standards, so I would ask you to necessarily insert the section – compliance with European wages, so to say: the European average so much, the support of the EU so much, so much, so much. This measure, proposed by the government, will allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia to jump by 2% and draw closer to the European wage average. That would be much more correct, because both sides would be satisfied. It's just that there's talk of what's supposed to be a standard, which harms the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You have seen for yourself how they are with personal incomes, and if you want citizens to trust you in the EU's grace, it is best to deceive them by raising their salary. Probably, Mrs. Comic, you would not be surprised if Mladjan Dinkic announced on TV tonight – those 1,000-euro shares are now worth 2,000 euros. That wouldn't surprise anyone. They're not worth anything anyway, but what it costs him to say, and in a year he can say again – that I had to cheat to get Palma to come through with me in the coalition. He can say anything, he doesn't suffer any consequences, absolutely nothing. That's right with these excises. Serbian citizens should be too pleased to pay a large excise fee, because the blessing is about to come. Whether it's 2020, 2030, it doesn't matter, but it's about to come. Who's going to live to see that, people? Who's going to survive until then? I'm just surprised why you don't defend the EU and EU liquids in Serbia with a lot of elanas? How is it possible that no one can speak on this important law, but absolutely no one in power speaks? Let me remind you, this is now 180% opposite of what was December. This wouldn't be the first time you've made that mental mistake. Well, we change laws every six months. The one that was European, now the new one comes as the most European, but none of you will answer. Why? So as not to keep the association with the citizens as you are the culprits for increasing excise duties. This is the message -- it's the EU's fault, it's the NATO pact, it's their fault. It's not your fault and I support you in that, it's really the EU's fault and the NATO Pact. It is their fault that Serbia is not working, which is quite all the more expensive in Serbia, which is reduced revenues, reduced incomes, and that there is a great dissatisfaction in the Republic of Serbia. You can make up another strike, you can make up another demonstration, you can make up another break, but you don't solve a fundamental problem, you just delay the problem of solving it. I hope, in mid-July, that the mind will finally overcome little in the ruling coalition. I count, since this one is quite beneficial, this Tucko, that he will influence his friend Boris Tadic, as he is the chief political and media adviser. Like Shapper and these, I was joking with them, this one's in charge, this one's got all the seconds, all the minutes. I hope he convinces him and tells him – Tadic puts down the ball, for example, the mood of the people is 80% against the EU and the NATO Pact. It is not a matter of how many thousands of kilometers or hectares have been taken away in Kosovo and Metohija, it is a much more important state issue. The state needs to be taken seriously. Mrs. Comic, aren't you late for Europe?- I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55904	The parliamentary group has two minutes left at their disposal. The word is made by MP Dragan Shormaz, followed by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I think this proposal on the amendments to the Law on Excises, to be precise, unlike the minister who came to defend the bill, so he said it was a 'nact', I think the Government of the Republic of Serbia has 'fully' exaggerated and in fact given, yet, perhaps, even so far, the greatest example of how incompetent the government is and how absolutely, not being maliced, not to say that it does not want to, but certainly does not know that it takes care of the interests of the Serbian state, the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For what is happening to us, it is not Russia, nor China, nor the United States, it is not our fault, nor the Martians, for all that is happening to us, the incompetent Government of the Republic of Serbia, which even after the reconstruction shows even more incompetence than it has shown so far. On average, it depends on what product, out of 130 dinars, the cost of a liter of gasoline in Serbia, on average, the state of Serbia takes as much as 60 dinars. Serbia has the largest excise duties and taxes, which is already being spoken here or among the largest in Europe, but it certainly has the largest in the Balkans. Look now, when we compare what we have heard here today, only at retail price or through excise charges, and in euros, what is the situation in the countries in the environment, what is the situation in Serbia, what is the situation in the EU countries, which is mentioned here. For example, Romania and Bulgaria are in the EU, the retail price of 1.27 euros, I am talking about a 95-oct Euro Premium. In Bulgaria 1.24 and Serbia without this 1.32 increase. Accize in Bulgaria and Romania 0.38 and 0.36 and in Serbia 0.51 without this increase. Spain, also in the EU, as well as Slovenia, 1.32 in Spain, 0.42 excises, 1.32 in Serbia, 0.51 excises, so for 10 euros more than in Spain, and the same price of fuel. How much is the average salary in Spain, although the crisis is high there, and how much is it in Serbia? How does business and how much fuel does it use, and how much is it with us? Slovenia 1.30, lower price than ours, and three times the salary, 0.41 excise, and with us 0.51, I repeat 1.32 prices, without what we're doing here today. Members of the ruling majority, who are the owners of your mandates if you work in the interests of citizens, should not be afraid to continue to show so much loyalty to your parties that make you vote, in this way, against the interests of Serbian citizens and the economy, through this law! Further, Montenegro 1.37, 0.45 excise. Well, what are Montenegro's economic opportunities, and what are Serbia's, and even they have less excises than we do? Croatia 1.22, 0.44 excise, VAT 0.23, and with us 0.21, and with us 0.51, I repeat, without what we are doing today. When this is done today, the equation, and the term equalization is deliberately used, and it's true because of the SAA that's signed, that we're committed to equating, that's what you knew when you passed this law and you didn't do it. Equivalence didn't have to mean increase! And here, some who are manipulating, to make the EU look guilty now because of the increase in excise duties in Serbia, is not what the EU asked Serbia to do. She asked for equalization. Equivalence could also mean a reduction in that part of excise duties that were higher on imports than domestic production and on the domestic market supplier. We could use an excise policy or a government proposal to put it down. We suggested it through the amendment. We'll see if you adopt him. But that was the solution, too. I'll tell you that since the New Year's, the state has twice reduced excise duties on fuel, and we're increasing twice, first by the original bill, and now by amending the law. As soon as the conflict started in Libya, when oil prices went up, the state of Croatia reduced excise duties so as not to jump their retail price, and neither did the wholesale price it uses for the economy, they doubled twice just to avoid an increase in prices, only to protect the standard of their citizens and to protect the economy. I repeat, we increase twice. Why? Well, not because of the EU, but because we have an incompetent government, which doesn't know how to organise an economy in the country and because we have a major economic downturn, not to call it a disaster, although that's what citizens call it when we see their statements every day, and it doesn't know that it fills the budget from real sources, and then it looks at how to rip even more, as far as possible, this way. Market knowers, experts, however, here, I saw what they say, before this debate today, argue that the state should reduce excises on fuel, not only to equate them, but also to reduce them and even them with those in the region, and I have read to you what they are in the region, much lower than we do, and they believe that this would lead to an increase in fuel consumption in Serbia, so the state register would be filled as so far, logically, by charging VAT than spending would remain at least the same level. I don't know if you know it, but consumption dropped 30% to 35% compared to last year. Well, what's an increase in excise duty worth? With this increase, sales will fall even more, which means that it's not true, it doesn't have to be guaranteed that there's going to be budgeting that way and then Minister Ugljanin tells us that we're going to make schools, kindergartens, highways. What, like, you still said? Never mind, which schools? Well, we've only made six, seven-year-old schools in the last ten years, and I know it very well, and it was the same loan from the EU, the money we're paying back. That's all we did. What new schools they're gonna make, I don't know how to make some new schools. You're so incompetent you can't even paint everything we have, let alone build something new. Is there anything I need to talk about on the highways? Well, the ones you gave the job to are now in jail. What about Corridor 10, say, rail traffic? I was talking, remember, in November of last year, about the Jell-O Bridge in Novi Sad. They signed a contract in January, made, completed a tender, selected a performer, signed a contract, everything. The board wasn't put in, let alone the works started. What's worth it, this way is completely pointless and what you're doing doesn't lead to anything. Price cuts would increase sales, I'm telling you again, and the price reduction can be if the state's burden is reduced. Later you'll see through another example of how much the country's burden is at this present price. In the season of vacations, therefore, now, our citizens, and you travel, when they travel to Greece or Montenegro do not fill the tanks here, but fill them when they cross. From border places with BiH, no one pours fuel at pumps anymore, everyone crosses Drina, pours it there and returns with full tanks. What are you talking about? It's a fact, everybody knows that. Nobody pours at our pumps anymore, they all cross and pour there. Everyone who goes after Greece's car can't wait to get into Macedonia to fill their tanks, all of them, far cheaper than we do. And that's where we're going to lose, but let's look at those who drive through our country, citizens who also go on vacation, but also business, those who use trucks, who pass through our corridor 10. Well, ask any pumper on Corridor, almost none of them, only when someone's miscalculated or has fewer tanks, doesn't pour fuel on us. Everyone pours before they enter Serbia and wait for them to leave Serbia to pour fuel at the first next gas station outside Serbia. And that's where Serbia loses, and we lose in that transport of people and goods through Serbia, that's a fact. The stock price of fuel is 60 Euro cents, and about that much of the countries take us through taxes and excise duties. That's a fact. I'll give you an example, even worse than that, in the case of a 95-octane EVRO Premium. So the producer price is 56.3 dinars, now I speak in dinars, and the margin is five dinars, that's 61.30, and the total price is 132.33. Therefore, the producer price is 56,3 and March 5, everything else is the state: it takes 49,5 for excise duty, through the Emergency Fund 0.63 dinar, through the fee for the entry of chemicals 0,20 and through VAT 20,70 dinars. So 132 dinars are the price, and 71 dinars are taken by the state. It's nowhere to be found. What black EU? This is not an EU standard, but it has nothing to do with EU standards. It's just saying how incompetent this government is. This government is compromising the European story. She absolutely compromises the European story with such moves. The EU did not ask Serbia to increase excise duties, but to level them. That could have meant a reduction, I repeat. What we as SNS are all about, and it's about this European story, that we have the same standards, this shows that they're not the same standards. This is not the kind of attitude that EU Member States have towards citizens. Well, what are we supposed to do there if we have this relationship with our citizens and our economy? Therefore, standards in the field of economy, justice, human rights, social issues, civil rights, everything else – that is, but, people, this is how you compromise it and that is one example. I'll give you another example where you also compromise Serbia on the European path, an example of media manipulation. Here, for this you could see in the media, which you absolutely control, and this little thing that you haven't been controlling in the last days of pressure on them, we see, for example, in the newspaper "Hello." In electronic media, there's been an absolute attack on oil dealers and oil derivatives over the margin. The whole story was that, in essence, it was not the country's fault with its excise and tax policy, but that they were guilty because they had a big margin, that they would reduce their profits – the price would be lower. Really! Well, they're paying taxes, too. Since when does it bother a citizen of any state, including Serbia, to earn money? Well, is the state going to be rich if it has a rich individual or is it going to be rich if there are only a few rich individuals, who are, as a rule, members of DS or their friends, former directors, from DS, etc.? Well, I guess we're supposed to be a country of rich individuals, so let's just pay property tax, profit tax, tax on this, tax on that, so that's how the budget is filled, when the economy works, when the citizens are well paid, when they have good profits, not this way. You've also done manipulation with the issue of strike of farmers. I watched three contributions to three different media outlets, including Public Service, where those who had sown corn on 100 hectares last year were said to have earned 80,000 euros, and are now seeking a subsidy of 14,000 dinars per hectare. Well, in the end, you didn't give in because you agreed to all their demands. Well, what difference does it make that they earned 80,000 euros last year, if that's even true?- I'm sorry. Well, that's what they paid their taxes on. So, how far? How many years have these same peasants helped us?- I'm sorry. How many years have they worked with a minus?- I'm sorry. Well, what about when the stock price of corn or wheat wasn't as high as it is now?- I'm sorry. What happens when they're doing the minus?- I'm sorry. Well, at the same price were sold by Poles, so they had ten times the subsidy. The same price was sold by Croats, so they had five times as many subsidies. How much did they earn? Has it occurred to any minister to say, "What is the matter with you, what is it with you that you seek subsidies, that you have earned enough?" And now, how is this increase in oil prices going to reflect on what they've already calculated, calculated, done, entered certain hectares, some five, some ten, some hundred, some three hundred? That's why they're going to increase their input. What does that have to do with European standards? I'll just make one conclusion at the end. What's this attack on the citizens? This is a blow to the citizens' home budget, what we're talking about today, and what I assume you're going to vote on in the voting day next week, and that they won't accept the amendments. This is a double strike against citizens, which will reduce consumption, the citizens will buy less oil and oil derivatives, and the economy will have to, in view of the increase in the input to increase the price of its goods. Unfortunately, citizens of those goods they have to buy, even if they can't buy five liters of gasoline sometimes, but can't buy four, and even when they buy bread they'll have to pay more for this input. It's a double blow to the citizens. It's a blow to the economy itself because it's going to have a cut in demand for its goods, because it's going to be a higher price and wages don't increase. Oil dealers and oil companies will also have reduced sales. That means they won't make that much money on that margin either, since they'll have a cut in sales. I'm sure of it. So, you think the budget will benefit? It won't do any good. Through this again, citizens and beneficiaries of the budget will have damages, because the budget will not be rebursed properly by the state to commercial loans and thus burden the detention and citizens of Serbia, because this little increase in the budget, as the minister said, is not'minimum', because in this way it will be about 4.5 dinars of fuel increases and 2.5 per diesel, therefore there will be no increase in the budget, but will be less and less, due to the reduction in consumption. There's no use for this either, and only the damage is to the citizens and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55906	Since the time of the parliamentary group, 17 minutes and 45 seconds have been used. The word has a folk MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic, and she is the last to be registered on the list of speakers. Time is available for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55907	In eight minutes, I will be able to explain in the language of Serbian citizens what counterpart Dragan Shormaz said about how this affects Serbia's citizen, this proposal on equating excise duties, which, indeed, is not a requirement for Europe to increase the price but to even the excise. The last time my son asked me if he could put gas in my car with my card, and get approval, I asked him, "How much money are you going to put in the fuel?" He said six hundred dinars. I said - Nikola, at a time when your father and I were studying, and we already had a formed family, we didn't pour so few liters into the former "Folkswagen" of my late father-in-law, who was from 1971. And he says, "Mom, if I were to explain it to you, you might not understand me, but I'm so angry, I'm gonna sit down and write it to you." I really did save paper where he explained to me who in this country is saving on gasoline, on diesels, on the kind of car he drives and how much this government really has reform capacity and goodwill to help citizens. "I took your car," my son writes to me, "and I see that I'm spending 8.9, and the engine is only 1.5, without the turbine, of course, gas. I'm asking how unleaded he is these days and I can see that he's even 1.3 euros from VAT. Now I see why my mother complains about the price of gasoline. When I compare it to the euro diesel of the same generation, like a young guy would drive, twice the engine that spends 11.7 liters on that route, it turns out that in euros, almost a cent, they spend the same at current prices. And these are cars from two completely different classes, so I can't imagine what it looks like for these thirsty angels driven by the government's, I repeat, that's one young man who's 27 years old, because from the presidential limo to the disintegrated South Post Office, all the petrol stations, as far as I know, are spending 20 liters. Is there any way we can find out how many cars she's been driving on the state's gas register, how much gas, and how many diesels? I claim that it can save up to 40%, since only our wasteland is considering nothing but gasoline. My diesel is even better, i.e. objective technology has advanced and passed the petrol and in the most important item – consumption per km, per horse. All that aside. Let's, objectively, double-burn diesel, add noise, transge-fange transactions, know many of what I'm talking about, but for double savings, so if it brings a few kilometers of freshly built highway, which everyone's talking about, monthly, this change has no discussion that only diesels have to be bought, and in the existing gas building. Well, we don't even have 300 kilometers of a healthy trip and we hit on this kind of crap who knows how many miles a month. And even on a flat-rate basis, we have to argue that it has to go to diesels, and as you say in SNS," my son says, "you say we have to think about energy, the free bill says that it's possible to save incredible savings, to say that the state through power, businesses, spend 50% of the fuel, and that 50% of it is available to move to an alternative, so 25% of the consumers, so if it saves 30, and that gives a frantic 7.5% savings at the macro-level. I believe that when you get real data, that savings can be between 5 and 10%. Let's just make sure that "net" is at the state level of only 2%, it's really very, very important on this misery. The savings will be even bigger once we cut the traffic and speed up the highway. ''My fellow Members, get a call, which I am grateful for, and I would like to go, about saving energy and fuel consumption in Serbia, which should be taken into account, at the invitation of a responsible foreign institution I will accept. But the first job of the Serbian citizen will always be that in this place, which is parliament, and that its rule is that. Our government, as executive authority, first shows that she is thinking about saving herself, that she is thinking about the standard of her citizens and that she herself is not just thinking about it, but doing something and doing it, that is. suggests a concrete legal project that means "saving." This legislative proposal is not and he is the result of a government formed on a coalition that has cost too much of this country and which, I fear, will cost even more expensive if, not if, on the agenda, it is a project that is adopted, which under the form of a story about keeping the percentage of income tax on citizens at the place, in fact, means the final act of 'beogradation', in which only Belgrade and Novi Sad, in which over 50% of the total fund of earnings is paid, will be the only winners, and the rest of Serbia and the rest of us citizens, who have to take care of every dinar, will certainly not be losers. But the motive based on which laws are proposed and adopted here is not the well-being of citizens and standards. It's a story. The motive for obtaining, maintaining power, unlisting elections, the motive at which the campaign is conducted is – to stay in power at all costs. The result of such a policy is this law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-06-08-0.u55908	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) Since no one is answering for a word, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I conclude a principled review of the draft Act amending the Act on Excises, and that is what we are doing today. The paper continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours, with discussion in particular, i.e. the debate on amendments to the Bill on the financing of political activities. So tomorrow, Thursday, June 9th, 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
