ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55035	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in two days it will be exactly two years from the murder of the party's board of directors for democratic action at the SO Presevo Isuf Azizi. During this two-year period, nothing has been done to shed light on this cruel murder; murderers (or murderers) walk free. A series of unsolved murders and kidnappings have been created since the time of the war, which I spoke of here several times; I was saying that eleven civilians were killed during the war. The majority of civilian killings were also between 1999 and 2001. Unfortunately, even after that period, when we have a full stabilisation of opportunities in the area, there are also several murders that are not clarified. In addition to the murder of the Azizi councilman, I would like to state the case of the kidnapping of the owner of a gas station from Preshev Nebi Nuhiu in 2000, who was violently picked up from his house; when after an hour the money was asked for, in the process of handing over money to the kidnappers... She was also familiar with the police. After that, several police officers were processed, but the kidnapping was not clarified, it was not illuminated. In fact, you don't know the fate of the kidnapped Nuhiu. Absolutely, so there's no processing and responsibility for these masculine and ferocious murders or, in this case, kidnapping. In a situation where the number of members of the local police is higher than in earlier periods, and especially when it is known that there are quite a number of special police and police officers in the area, the question is how can murders first occur? The bigger question, for example, is how can there be, in the case of the murder of the Azizi councilman two years ago, that there is still no explanation of this murder or possibly the prosecution of this disgusting murder? In this area, there is then an impression, since there is such a high concentration of special police and gendarmes, that it is more for situations where there is a spectacular arrest or search in certain houses. It was done earlier by local police with several police officers, and now a multiple number of special forces are engaged for it. It gets the impression that it's more because of some effect, in my opinion, sometimes unnecessary enforcement of the force that the state applies in these cases, and not that it's in the function of stabilising opportunities and lighting up these difficult situations, when we talk about these murders that remain unexposed. So I'm asking the question, actually, for the second time, I'm talking to the MUP for all cases. Especially in this current case, it's absolutely incomprehensible that two years... That murders, kidnappings happen in broad daylight, and no one can, and no one can, and not a whole state apparatus, carry out their own law of intended obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55036	Time. Thank you. In accordance with Rule 286 of our Rules of Procedure, the mandated representative of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group will be Vladimir Milentijevic, to whom I will give my word. Just to inform you that the SRS parliamentary group will represent MP Petar Jojic. Mr. Milentievich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55037	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, however much the current government has been trying to question Kosovo and the Metohija and enter, respectively. EU bid represents two separate topics, today it is quite clear that these are two closely related topics. Very clear and precise messages and signals come from the European Union – or good neighbourly relations with an independent state of Kosovo or the EU. In this regard, the government is working very hard to establish good neighbourly relations with the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo. In doing so, it calls for reality that international relations are such that it is impossible to expect Kosovo to remain within Serbia, that the division of Kosovo is one of the solutions, that Kosovo is lost etc. It's not a reality. Ladies and gentlemen, reality is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which clearly defines in its preamble that the province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia. From this position, Kosovo and Metohija follow the constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in Kosovo and Metohija in all internal and foreign policy relations. The reality is that this constitution defines that the government of the Republic of Serbia leads internal and foreign policy, but unfortunately, the reality is that the president of the Republic of Serbia leads foreign and internal politics. The government is declaring everything when it comes to preserving Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia, defending Kosovo and Metohija from independence with all legal and diplomatic means, and will never recognise or sign Kosovo's independence. If we take into account the fact that in three years' time the Prime Minister has not visited the AP Kosovo and Metohija, if the Deputy Prime Minister has not spoken to the President of the Republic of Serbia about Kosovo and Metohija, who is otherwise leading politics on Kosovo and Metohija, then the question of how sincerely does the government deal with and whether it is dealing with the problems of Kosovo and Metohija at all? It seems to me that the government is tired of Kosovo and Metohija; it has tired and spent its time presenting to the public that it has done everything in the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia and will never recognise Kosovo's independence. I don't think that in a time stronger, when there is no justice, Kosovo and Metohija can be easily defended. Kosovo is being kidnapped, and apparently the entire world public. In such a Kosovo, we live very hard today. No multiethnicity. We've lived beside each other for a long time, the way we live. We will live on, but not in an independent state of Kosovo. There's no way we can accept that. Maybe there'll be a better time when someone else knows how to get it back. But if we give it ourselves, they'll never get that chance. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as it is, expects much of the negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina, although it runs them without a UN representative. Negotiations are deeply foggy and secretive. Magloviti, because there are already cases that opposite the negotiators from Pristina and Belgrade are on one side of the flag of the Republic of Serbia, on the other independent republic of Kosovo. I would ask the government of the Republic of Serbia for a response from the Prime Minister, what did you intend to achieve in dialogue with Pristina? And who knows which time the issue of the Democratic Party of Serbia – are we going to the European Union with Kosovo and Metohija or without Kosovo and Metohija? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55038	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55039	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Madam President, I have, first of all, one notice for you: one question asked by the New Serbia MP, more specifically the New Serbia MP from the Royals Mr Srdjan Spasojevic and my smallness, we have not received an answer; it has been much more than 15 days, which is the ministers' legal obligation, so I will now have to ask that question again. So I'm asking for a notice, or I'm asking Milan Markovic, Minister of Local Self-Government about his role as head of the government's damage recovery team suffered by the citizens of the Kings in an earthquake that was... Can anyone remember exactly when he was? The suffering of the citizens of the Kings is no longer in the media, there are no ministers to be photographed, and there are no New Serbia MPs to answer questions. So, I'm asking Mr. Markovic, as head of the government's team for rebuilding broken houses in the King's Republic, and the recovery of all the damages that the citizens of the Kings had, what are the results, what is going on with this, how much money has been raised, how much from the budget, how much from local self-government, how many of the citizens of individuals, how much of the political parties? For every praise, some political parties, including New Serbia, have been modestly helped, as much as we could, to help the citizens of the Kings. I believe that the citizens of the Kings and the entire Serbian public, and the world's, because help came from all over the world, deserve an answer to one of these questions. It is an opportunity for Mr Markovic to answer these questions that I have asked, not to ignore the entire parliamentary group, and I mean the whole Serbian public. For the sake of truth, honor and honesty, I want to say that I think it's done a lot there, that many citizens, at least partially remedied damage and that Minister Markovic has this significant and positive role. I don't understand why he won't answer these questions anymore. Maybe that's why, Madam President, yesterday we saw it in the media, and that's actually why I ask, what some citizens are lying at the door of the city administration, the city council in the King, strike hunger, dissatisfied. My information says a lot of citizens are unhappy. Maybe they're wrong, but they have the right to answer. In the name of them, I took that authority to ask myself what's going on, if there's any more money and why are your citizens in the King, and we see that there are more and more, dissatisfied? I don't know who to ask now. When we asked the question, Mr Petar Skundric was the Energy Minister and we asked him a question, more specifically our MP from the Royals Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic, concerning the good proposal and good intentions, his, that anything that could be done would not increase the price of electricity for the citizens of the Kings for this year. We received answers neither there nor here; here in the congregation we received an answer that would be considered. On one television with a national frequency, the issue of Mr. Spasojevic is also important. There were unmistakable answers coming from the government. It takes a month per month and now it takes the citizens of the Kings to forget, or New Serbia's MPs, what we asked. So, repeating for the best of intentions, I'm asking a question. I think Mr. Markovic has invested a lot of energy traveling to the King and solving the difficult fates of the citizens of the Kings who have lost their homes and houses. I am giving him so much an opportunity to answer these questions that we are asking and not to avoid the answer anymore, because he was the head of the government's recovery team. Therefore, he needs to be clear, and to you, President, according to what we do, that we will certainly not give up on this issue. I expect you too to intervene to respect the law and to give Mr Markovic within 15 days, although all deadlines have already been exceeded, answers to these questions that we have asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55040	Thank you. I want to inform you, both the MPs and the public that professional services and I personally, if we do not get an answer to the parliamentary question within two weeks, we are asking that same question again. I completely agree with you, I'm not talking about those who are always unhappy with the answers, there's nothing I can do about it, not in business, not in the office of the president, but I'd like to say that I'm going to definitely update, or repeat your questions. And, I agree completely that Minister Markovic has a lot of reasons to get graces for engagement around everything that is going on in the King. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55041	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I request a notice as to why the parliamentary group of friendships of Serbia with Iran has not been formed. Why wasn't the president of the friendship group elected? Why is it not responsible for the Iranian request that their parliamentarians visit Belgrade, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Why is it not responsible for the Iranian parliamentary party's invitation to visit Tehran? This team before considering that a parliamentary group of friendships with Serbia has already been formed in Iran. As there are common interests in co-operation with Iran, as well as projects to co-operate with Iran's economic plan, Serbia has only benefit and no harm done. I particularly point out that it should be a friendly country, a country that has not recognised Kosovo, which should be respected and appreciated and with which friendly relations should be developed, rather than turning to the European Union, which is training our politicians, who is coming to Serbia, tasked with. Our politicians kneel, after five days they shake their pants, when Brammertz will arrive, when another representative from Europe will arrive. In this way, Serbia humbles itself and allows itself to turn to those countries of which there is only harm, and there is no benefit. Madam President, I ask the question and ask you why you have not fulfilled the promise you made when you were staying, we were together in that delegation, in Iran, where the authorities and representatives of Parliament and the Government have warmly and friendlyly accepted us. You promised that this group of parliamentarians would be formed and that we should finally start working together and respect those countries that respect Serbia. Madam President, I'm asking you a question and please... You mentioned earlier that there was a problem with answering parliamentary questions. I've asked a few MPs questions, but there's no answer. Here is one parliamentary question, which I asked on March 23rd this year, and I addressed it to you and addressed it to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia – how many directors, deputy directors, assistant directors, advisors of directors and other executives in all public utility companies of the city of Pancheva, namely for every person in every public utility? The average salary of employees in every public utility company whose founder is the city of Panchevo? What are the monthly salaries of directors, deputy directors, assistant directors, advisors of directors and other managers in all public utility companies of the city of Panchev, namely for every person in every public utility? The number of employees in each public utility company, in particular for the period 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011? What is the debt of each public utility company on 22 March 2011 and to whom is all the names that the company owes? How many boards of directors are there in the public utility companies of the city of Panchev? How many names are their faces, what are their monthly incomes? How many supervisory committees are there and in what public utility companies? What is the number of members of the Supervisory Board, and what are their monthly incomes? How many congregations of the city of Pancheva have working bodies, commissions, councils and other bodies whose founder is the Panchev City Assembly? A list of members of the working bodies of the City Assembly who are financed from the city budget by name and amount received monthly by membership in working bodies? What function are they in now, and from what functions are they selected into the working bodies? Are there any cases that one of the officials is also a member of several working bodies? Are all the above mentioned members of the working bodies posted on the City Assembly site transparently published or not? How many council members of the Pancevo City Assembly received employment in public utility companies, who fled from other parties, whose founder is the city of Pancevo? How many executives are there in the guard service organized by the City Assembly and its organs, namely for every person employed? How are they employed and how big are their monthly incomes? Farmers are accepted in the winter season to guard the fields. How much, considering...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55042	Time. I wanted to stop you, but I feel like you're going to be talking for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55043	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55044	You've been talking for a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55045	If you'll allow me...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55046	If that is the same question as the question you asked on March 23rd, then we will certainly repeat the request that you receive an answer to the question. Your right and the right of every MP is, of course, to ask everything he cares about. Regarding your question regarding friendship groups, a group of friendships, in our acts, were established the moment when the president was elected, which is within the competence of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55047	Madam President, just one...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55048	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic, don't throw it at me. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55049	Thank you. I have questions for Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, as there was a devastating earthquake in the Kingdom last November and more than 16,000 apartments and houses were damaged. The government of the Republic of Serbia and donors have so far spent over a billion dinars on renovation, adaptation and constructive rehabilitation of these houses, as well as on the institutions of the republican and local authorities. It's money that's part of the budget, part of the donor, and it's aid that's been sent to all the citizens of the Kings. More than 350 houses have been built so far, and a large number of buildings currently have a constructive recovery. Minister Markovic has indeed made a great effort to do this in one quality way, as well as the entire city administration and the mayor Ljubisa Simovic. My question concerns the fact that in 2006, a train toilet adaptation was made at the King's station and over 70,000 euros were spent. At the time, the minister was from New Serbia, as well as the leadership of the railways. I'm interested in how many editing houses could have been made for that money and how many citizens could have gotten a roof over their heads? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55050	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are moving on to further work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of MPs Sasa Dujovic, Mladen Grujic and Pastor Balint. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that in connection with the search in detail of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of Mr Verica Kalanovic, Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Ciric, Minister of Economy and Regional Development and Snezana Samardzic Markovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, I have also called for the sittings to attend: Jelena Popovic, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Snezana Matić, Head of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Đorđe Vukotic, Danica Dajevic and Lucija Dujovic of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Mr. Dragan Todorovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55051	I call on Article 27, in relation to Article 89, and I draw your attention, Madam President, that you should interrupt this session because there is no government representative. You know, there are two ways to work in this assembly: one is in line with the Rules of Procedure, according to good tradition and practice, and the other is one kind of violence. Especially when it comes to considering in particular, it's something different than when it's in principle, because a representative of the government should... You know how many times it's been in practice for some of the government's amendment representatives to accept it immediately. Tell me, how is that possible without a representative of the government now? I really don't think this makes any sense, but you should stop this session and provide a civilized way of debate in the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55052	We'll interrupt the debate in particular for one more reason. There is no representative, that is correct, but by technical error we did not finish the 17th item of the agenda yesterday – a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, we'll appreciate your suggestion for the reasons I've just stated. I'll just ask that the stenogram be... Mr. Buha will have the opportunity to speak again. Now we're doing the 17th agenda. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – the proposal for a decision on amendments to the decision on the election of Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia The total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, and is distributed as follows: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds, to the SRS Parliamentary Group one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds, to the United Regions of Serbia 28 minutes and 48 seconds, to the Parliamentary Group Progress Serbia 25 minutes and 12 seconds, to the Parliamentary Group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica 24 minutes, to the Parliamentary Group SPS - JS 18 minutes, to the MEP group 14 minutes and 24 seconds, to the Group of New Serbia 10 minutes and 48 seconds to 48 seconds, to the Group of Minorities of eight minutes and 24 seconds to the PUPS six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I'm asking MPs' groups, if they haven't already done it, to file immediately for a word. Let me open up the search, and I'll give you my word. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. I'm asking, does the Proposer's representative want a word? She has advertised the Rules of Procedure of Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55053	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, this, what our people would say, is a hoax of a moment ago and a proposal for Mr. Buha to return to a time machine and that we practically have a lively delayed transfer of the Assembly is something that is truly humiliating. On the other hand, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, you would now, and I call on Article 27. Rules of Procedure, since you are required to take care of the Rules of Procedure... He was violated by the fact that there has been a mix-up of MPs from the very beginning and that we have now been informed that we have not crossed that point of the agenda. You should give a five-minute break, because now, based on this new order of points, that is, on your information and on the opening of the debate on this proposal for a decision to elect board members, we must, as parliamentary groups, in accordance with the article you have read, to give a list of speakers, to designate an authorised representative. Since we see that there is no authorised representative here, you act like one, I'm telling you in power, as if it were irrelevant things. A moment ago, while Mr. Jojic was talking about the scandal and promise made to the Iranian ambassador that we would form a group of friendships, you seemed to have no interest in it at all. I mean, first of all, members of the Democratic Party, who cheer and dress on the Committee on Foreign Affairs through Dragoljub Micunovic. When we get to changing members of the assembly boards, let's fly over it, we'll do it in five, ten minutes. I have to tell Mrs. Samardzic she's early. There will be a debate on this agenda point, and the total time for this point is five hours, as well as for everyone else. Now I'm asking you to take a five-minute break, because it's our business obligation to get you a list of registered speakers. We want to take part in the debate on this agenda point. It's not fair and it's not correct, given that we're just... Mrs. Komic, please don't throw it at me and ask the president to give you a warning because you're being rude. I really ask you, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, to take this short break so that we can consult, to make a list of speakers and then to start a nice discussion on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55054	I thank Vice President Natasa Jovanovic for the suggestion. In five minutes, we'll actually continue our work. Please prepare a list of speakers for the time being.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55055	Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to apply for a word with the order of MPs, on the basis of Article 96(4). While the MPs deliver information on who is registered by the speaker, on the basis of Article 27, I declare that the session of the National Assembly should be deleted from the synogram during today, remove the part relating to the opening of the session in the discussion on details, and at the point of the agenda which is open to the loss before the debate is concluded in the principle of the agenda point which is just open and in progress. After we have completed the debate on the agenda on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we will, of course, open a search into the details of the agenda item that was in the joint principle of two laws, and the first is the proposal for a law on companies. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55056	I'd also like to ask the question, before I go into the debate, what about an authorised promoter? I would really draw your attention to running this session in line with some democratic traditions that this assembly has, and which it has been losing, unfortunately, for the past three years, since this majority has been in power. I think the elemental point, when it comes to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is that the proposal should be present when something like this is considered, especially because I think this is an extremely important issue, because it is a matter which has, unfortunately, become evident for this assembly, that the Rules of Procedure are applied in accordance with the way you operate, or double-arshishins, certain rules apply to some parliamentary groups, and some parliamentary groups do not. It is, unfortunately, a major problem that we have faced in this assembly of the Republic of Serbia since 2008, with the brutal violation of the Rules of Procedures which you have brought and applying exclusively as you do, in accordance with your political interests. I would remind you of the SRS MP group, when you accepted the theft of the SRS mandate, the theft of the votes of Serbian citizens who voted for the SRS. You've gone over it because it suits you back then. I would also remind you of another event that is extremely important, a kind of precedent that took place in the Republika Srpska Assembly when changing the Rules of Procedure, when you increased the number of members of the Assembly committees for one single reason – that the ruling majority, or the Democratic Party, would have a majority in individual committees to make decisions that would be in line with their political interests. The most drastic example is the Administrative Committee. The problem, of course, has arisen because of one simple thing, the opportunity for MP groups to exercise their right and endure the blanco resignations of their MPs in case they betray them. One of the parties in the ruling coalition was that the blank resignations were respected. You couldn't accept that. That, among other things, is G17 plus, and you know it well. You have completely changed the composition, past the electoral will of the citizens. You stole the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not in the elections, but later in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is absolutely unacceptable. Let me remind you that you stole 14 terms from the SRS on that occasion. Representatives of the Serbian Radical Party should come to those places, by the percentage they hold in the Republika Srpska Assembly. But you didn't let that happen. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs – 20%, or one term higher; the Committee on Finance – 17%, one term less; the Committee on Defence and Security – 23.5%; foreign affairs – 23.5%; the Committee on Justice and Administration – 29.4%; the Committee on Education – 17%; health and family – 23.5%; the Committee on Transport and Communications – 23.5%, not to read all these percentages. It speaks of the way you function in this session and it's simply unacceptable. I know you're going over this, you're absolutely not interested in anything. For the past eleven years, you have literally destroyed this country, almost brought it to an end. The last weeks of debate in the Serbian Parliament regarding certain laws, amendments and additions have shown how you destroyed this country. For example, the best example was the tobacco law; you completely destroyed our tobacco industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55057	People's MP, agenda theme. People's MP, you're required to listen to the chairman. So, with full understanding that the item of the agenda of the amendments of the members of the committee means the width that the MP wants to enter by reason, that width does not refer to discussions on the proposals of the laws that were or were under review, so please – on the subject of the agenda. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55058	That's why I'm telling you, because the Assembly has functioned in this way, which it has not accepted to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have come to this situation that we have come to. I would remind you of the Serbian Radical Party's demands when it comes to board members and our demands that the board members change. You didn't accept that. I ask a simple question: how is it possible to accept double arches? To be clear, we agree with the request of the LDP Parliamentary Group, and we believe that they should belong to that membership on the board in which Vesna Pesic is located and there is absolutely no dilemma for us, but we are asking how is it possible that LDP has a certain right, or some other parliamentary group, without the SRS having that right? A simple question, which, I mean, doesn't require much effort to give a simple answer. How is that possible? Explain how it is possible that there is this kind of inequality in the Serbian Parliament? When situations are like this, you have to make sure that they cause certain consequences. If this is happening in the Serbian Parliament, what is happening to ordinary citizens in everyday life? Then what are their rights? Are all citizens equal in court or in front of any other state bodies? Apparently not. If all MPs are not equal in the Republika Srpska Assembly, all parliamentary groups are not equal, how do you expect all citizens to be equal in life, especially given some remarks made by the President of the Republic on the citizens of the first order and the citizens of the second row, what is further extended in later practice by the Democratic Party? I call on you to slowly throw such things out of use, to return to the basic principles of parliamentaryism, to respect equality, to respect the right of every parliamentary group, every MP, to respect the right that is written in the Rules of Procedure, not to violate it. You only do it because of one thing, because you have 126 people who will raise their hands by dictatorship, no matter what you put to the vote, although many of them are fully aware of the fact that it is wrong and it is not correct. However, by respecting party discipline they will do so, but in the extreme line, it will come to everyone's head. I would ask that you no longer violate the Rules of Procedure and allow all MP groups in the National Assembly to work in the same way, with the same rights, and not that there are parliamentary groups for you to count on because at a certain point you will need their votes, so you allow them some things. When it comes to parliamentary groups with which there are no compromises, which strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure, their policies, their ideologies, and you do not respond, you brutally violate both the Rules of Procedure and all possible norms. This is the problem we have been facing for two and a half years, and this problem will reflect on the overall life in the Republika Srpska Assembly, and I think in Serbia as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55059	Eight minutes from the time of the parliamentary group president has been used. Before I ask if any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want the word, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the MPs that we will be working today after 1800 hours. Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a single search of the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, was submitted by the SRS Parliamentary Group. I give the word to the first to be reported on the list of MPs for the debate in a single search, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55060	Thank you, Mrs. Komic, Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs probably don't know all the MPs, but they will find out during today, we today have an extraordinary session of the National Assembly College, with one item on the agenda, which is – a presentation of the new assembly site, in which Mrs. Comic participated most, in making the site and presentation. Today, we will have many more opportunities to discuss how the Assembly site treats those who have not won, who stole the mandates from the SRS. Yesterday someone noticed well from the guests who were in our parliamentary group, that one of these false MPs who betrayed the SRS and President Vojislav Seselj and went with Nikolic and Vukic to this invention option, so-called. SNS, signed on screen as SNS. You remember, Mrs. Comic, that when they were kidnapped, they stole mandates, they applied as some kind of new, phantom group forward Serbia. Considering that you are a serious woman and that you have taken this job seriously, we will see today how they are treated by congregation committees. They did not, as our chairman of the parliamentary group Mr. Todorovic said, have the right to even step more foot in the National Assembly, especially because of the fact that we, the Administrative Committee, immediately after they went on that journey to Canet Subotic, Miskovic and Bek, tycoons and their foreign mentors, delivered resignations on the basis of which the mandates were to be returned to our party. Since we need to have a clear review, I expect that you on the assembly site will soon update this amendment to the legitimate proposal of your LDP colleagues we are discussing today, but I am very interested and can hardly wait 14 hours to see how those who are now something are treated, they think they are something, and the citizens have never voted in the election for them. Believe me, knowing all those who are Quasi-Embassies individually I know...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55061	Please, without the term "false messenger" and "quiet ambassador". The National Assembly has 250 MPs, equal in rights and obligations, so I ask you to keep an eye on each other and not to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which obliges us not to compromise the reputation of the National Assembly and to treat each other politely.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55062	Mrs Comic, I respect your remarks, but only if you have in mind what parties have come to the elections and what are the legitimate lists that have put forward the proposals of Members in this assembly that have 250 MPs. One of our fellow Members, the former president of the Assembly, got lost a few years ago, since, unfortunately, we had two deaths at the time, to say that the Assembly had 248 MPs, so there were also when it had 308 MPs because of the fact... (President: National MPs, I have no doubt that you remember a long time from the assembly debates, but now it is here and now. So, please, politely and without jeopardizing the National Assembly’s reputation in dealing with 250 MPs, or 249, since you are, of course, a national MP. ) You just now – I thought you would have, as you have it today, the broadest democratic capacity – told Mr Todorovic that we were allowed to discuss this agenda point, as it is about us and the assembly committees, to make these kinds of digressions, but now that I see that you have changed your mind, I will return to this concrete proposal of the LDP and these committees that we are talking about today. So, the SRS absolutely respects the right and possibility, which arises from the Rules of Procedure which speaks of the constitution of the National Assembly Committee, that fellow Members of the LDP Group, since their former counterpart, Mrs Vesna Pesic, has stepped forward and, as newly said, is now, an independent MP, to replace the committees for which we have received the proposals, and to make some other changes, namely that individual colleagues such as Mr Đurić and Andric, instead of the LDP committees, are members of other committees. Indeed, there is no dispute, you have heard from Mr. Todorovic. The problem is the strict application of this member of the Rules of Procedure. We, above all, have signed up to talk about this agenda point. We're getting to the point where he doesn't respect himself in the act... So, this is one process: a change of members is being made when one parliamentary group, which is legitimate, has won parliamentary mandates in the citizens' election, as we are, but here we are... That I'm not going back to that story that the sparrows on the branch already know, that our mandates have been stolen. But what's going on here now? How are we going to get into a situation where, by the end of this assembly term, we will set a good example for a new assembly meeting, where again there will be a very large number of representatives of the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, if God, both with our president in Serbia and at the head here in the benches of the National Assembly, which we suspect will happen, given that it is obviously a decision to keep him in custody for nine years now in the Hague cabinet... It goes to Tadic and his regime and his extended arm, Nikolic, to compete in an election campaign without our president's presence here in Serbia. However, since the beginning of the multi-party in Serbia, we have been sticking strictly to the electoral principle and reciprocity. When it comes to the election of president and deputy president, it is now clear and defined, which was not, in earlier Rules of Procedure, how the president and vice president were elected. It should respect the part that says that, in accordance with its strength and the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, they have the right to a number of presidents, or vice presidents. It would be illusory that the Liberal Democratic Party, while Vesna Pesic was still their member and member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, asked for the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This place passed out... Now I'm going to talk about this committee, because a colleague, as you are a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has contributed to her work, in line with her policy and her position. Now she can't do it anymore, because she stepped out of the LDP. So there have been cases where this member of the Rules of Procedure has been flagrantly violated. In addition to cutting the percentage and disrespecting the reciprocity, the Serbian Radical Party was also kidnapped by the presidents of the assembly committees. If I were right, the most obvious example is Mr. Todorovic, who sits in front of me. As head of the SRS parliamentary group, by the number of seats of the largest parliamentary group, he was chairman of the Defence and Security Committee. One day, they didn't like having to deal with the tycoons, with Caneta Zappac, with Milan Bek, with Miskovic... And what's the first news today, Mr. Todorovic, in all the media? That Milan Beck was banned by the court from using Luke Belgrade. If you, Mrs. Comic, if I... Okay, I'm a member of the Security Committee, so in a more detailed way, I'm dealing with this, crime, corruption and the connection of the top of the state government to tycoons and those who've cut back on crime, but if other colleagues knew what kind of criminal Milan Beko is that Mr. Todorovic didn't run it as chairman of the Defence and Security Committee? What's going on with the Foreign Affairs Committee now? Yes, I mentioned Miskovic several times, but you see, Mr. Todorovic, they still don't have the strength and they don't want it, of course, because he's their financier, as well as Nikolic, to hit him. But we're going to do it all the way, the people are going to show confidence in us, first of all because of our consistency, first of all because we're saying crime and corruption, and that's the biggest problem, besides unemployment and everything that hurts our citizens. To return to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which you and I are members of. I have great objections to the work of that committee, and here's why. Because it should be in parliamentary diplomacy... Here, we also adopted in the Council of Europe three years ago a resolution that treats this concept of parliamentary diplomacy, meaning, through the work of delegations, through the work of groups of friendships, MPs (which is the intensity of the SRS, which Mr Jojic also spoke about because a group of friendships with Iran was not formed) actively participate in the exchange of experiences, in developing good friendly and international relations with other colleagues. Why are we from the opposition disabled as members of the Foreign Affairs Committee? Mrs Vesna Pesic had such a problem when she was a member of the LDP, so will her colleague Bojan Đuric, be sure (which is now being proposed by the LDP we are discussing). Why can't we declare any initiative on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is in the interest of this parliamentary democracy and the good foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia? Because it does not give us the chairman of the Dragoljub Micunovic Board. On every proposal we make to extend the agenda point... Well, it's not like the board is the place where we should vote if you have a majority and that's how it's done business, is it? So we're supposed to sit there like icabans and keep our mouths shut. We won't do that. He was Vuk Jeremic last time; he was three hours, foreign minister. He heard the SRS's proposal to put the ODKB on the agenda and to urgently form a parliamentary delegation that would legitimately, as well as proper, and as expected by Russian Federation Prime Minister Vladimir Vladimirovic Putin, President Medvedev and Mr Grizzlov, represent Serbia at a meeting on 24 May. He gave it a smooth turn-off. He didn't even, Mrs. Comic (I don't know if you were in that part of the session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs), gave us an answer to the question of where the letter came from the Russian Duma, a letter that made Mr. Konuzin spoke to Mr. Todorovic several times, with Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. As promised to the ambassador of Iran, whom we visited as a delegation, as friends of the country and that nation who fought against the globalist policy of America and NATO, who expected to be normally, if Iranian parliamentarians formed a delegation, sent a letter to the Foreign Affairs Committee that they wanted to visit us here in Serbia. Why didn't we do it? That can't even change Bojan Djuric now, even if he will, now with some new LDP proposal. Now I'm going to tell him - no theoretical chances. What Dragoljub Micunovic draws, what is agreed by the ruling coalition, it is sealed, there is still nothing. We talked about it here this morning, my colleague Milentijevic spoke, and we spoke more than once – foreign policy in the country instead of the government took over Boris Tadic. When we ask, you know, we talk behind the scenes anyway, so we try to find out why Dragoljub Micunovic behaves like that, we get the answer that he has the full authority of Boris Tadic and that he is doing so in agreement with him. We come to the fact that we're insecure, that we're cheating on colleagues (when I have to use that term, it's a little rougher, but it really is) from the Russian Federation, from the Russian Duma, from Iran and some other countries. We simply cannot present on the Committee on Foreign Affairs the policy of the party from which we are elected and to implement certain initiatives. The same committee is, you have well suggested Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, also responsible for the proposals when forming international parliamentary delegations. What happened recently? It happened that Bozidar Delic, an honorary Serbian general, saw that those he went to briefly have a program that Montgomery wrote to them, in English, and they actually have no program, no ideology, nor Nikolic nor Vukic, their program is America and NATO, and their mentors from the West, File and others, Barroso... When Mr Delic, who welcomed the entire patriotic Serbia and a large number of former members, now again the members of the SRS, who headed his way and returned to our ranks, returned to the SRS Parliamentary Group, at the same time they hurried, as they were a find organisation, so-called. a party to replace it in the Committee, i.e. the delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Why? Because they have to put the one that will represent Serbia's NATO entry policy. Because they want more... (President: Dear People's MPs, the composition of parliamentary delegations is a special item of the agenda. When and if there is a point of the agenda of amendments and the addition of delegations, then that will be the agenda. ) Yes, but this is about the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Mrs. Comic, I really don't understand you, because that doesn't go to the Democratic Party. Understand once you're protecting those who take the mandates. (President: National MPs, I apply the Rules of Procedure in the interest of 250 MPs and I ask that you always have that in mind. I'm telling you about your political interest, but when you figure it out, it's gonna be too late. (President: My political interest is that we all apply the Rules of Procedure, the highest and the most beautiful. ) So, as for the new colleague, Mr Đuric, I am pleased to see him, he is the legitimate representative of the LDP list - Cedomir Jovanovic. We differ diametrically when it comes to Serbia's foreign policy and everything we need to do. We Serbian radicals advocate the territorial integrity of the country, for strengthening the national awareness of the people, for co-operation, not with the EU... We are explicitly against the European Union and we are the only political party that is so positioned on the political scene of Serbia, with clear arguments as to why it is not good for the Serbian people, why we are lulling into your efforts to get candidate status, not entry, which is on a long stick. But we will continue on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, regardless of such behaviour, which is undemocratic and contrary to the principles of the work of a parliament, carried out by Dragoljub Micunovic, to continue to launch these positive initiatives, because we care about the rise of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. To tell you the truth, I don't give a shit when you tell me and break me up - keep your dignity. We were doing the greatest guardians of the National Assembly's dignity because we know that the people, who, part of their sovereignty, passed on to us by voting in the elections, decided that the right people would be and in the right way to present what pains the people, what they would want. Believe me, with every atom of our strength and energy, as you see here every day in the work of our colleagues, we will continue to do so. But, a change in the president, the rapid removal of Mr. Todorovic from the post of chairman of the Defence and Security Committee has now led us into a stalemate position, Mrs. Comic. It's a system failure. We can't hold a session of the Defence and Security Committee. Why? Because your colleague Konstantin Samofalov, if by his own will, at least that's what he told me, or that's something that belongs to political marketing, applied for a voluntary military service, and he's the one who's missing and we don't have a quorum. We couldn't, right, Mr. Todorovic, it's been a month, to discuss the regular report of the MUP. (Dragan Todorovic: We couldn't while he was here. It is. We couldn't see what BIA was doing. You know, that's where these CIA, MI-6 agents, are chasing General Mladic, whom he will never catch, and Goran Hadzic. Mr. Todorovic, you have really contributed, as well as colleagues from other opposition parties, to the work of that committee. So it's not degutant that I, as your colleague, praise you, but, here, it turns out we were right. So one day, Mrs. Comic, it will turn out that we were right about all this happening on the Committee on Foreign Affairs. After all, I must commend Minister Jeremic. He was very clear at the previous session of the Foreign Affairs Committee. When MPs from the ruling party began to talk about the necessity, that we must join the European Union, he said nicely – don't, people, please, make a new dogma, is not the European Union a new Marxism. He was absolutely right. It is even argued, because he came prepared and as a serious minister, came into conflict with Dragoljub Micunovic, the chairman of the Committee, who travelled with Vesna Pesic to Egypt during the power of Mr Mubarak and there said that we support Mubarak, good relations, etc. When he came back here, he turned the turkey upside down. We know that Micunovic did it when he was a member of the Communist Union; for a time he was on the Gol island, but not because he was such an opponent of the Broz regime, but as an informant, that those who had to be under the horrors of the totalitarian Broz regime were snitches, so to speak. Now we've come this far to say -- well, we don't know if we need a conference of non-classified ministers, why go back, that's something we don't need for Serbia. Here, when we talk to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, when we have a report from the Minister and a regular activity report, who, Mrs. Komic, supports us in preserving territorial integrity and sovereignty? Who saves in the United Nations, when we have motions for resolutions, Kosovo and Metohija? It is these friends of ours from non-classified countries, above all the Russian Federation, with which parliament does not want to co-operate through the ODKB. Not to mention the fact that a few days ago when it was a Security Council session, about determining everything that was in Dick Marty's report and that the United Nations (and that's the direction and the path behind the SRS), and not Eulex, are conducting an investigation, which really is something that has to happen, we were supported there by the Russians, Indians, Brazilians. These are exactly the countries for which we representatives of the SRS and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the work of parliamentary delegations insist on co-operation, so-called. The member states of the BRIK Group, not only because of their huge economic power, but also because their political influence is strategically important. It is even thought that in some future, it is these countries that are proposing to redefine the United Nations, or the Security Council itself, because it is almost in hands, by decisions, by America and its Western allies. That's how they formed the ad hoc tribunal, in which our president, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, has been indistinguishable for nine years. And it was seen that he beat them and beat them to death. Finally, from the vast majority of MPs who followed his 98th bis rule, when he asked for his release, I have received from you, as well as other colleagues, congratulations from many Serbian citizens, primarily because of his legal, intellectual and any other supremacy over that so-called. The tribunal. But given that, and I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, because of the current and future MPs who will sit in these assembly benches, it is not worth it, democratic processes, which the Serbian Radical Party is fighting for, have been suspended in many segments. An obvious example is the way we were stolen from our mandates and the way we were cut off in percentages, as Mr. Todorovic read, in congregation committees. As MPs and colleagues, we wish Mr Đurić's success in working on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but since he belongs to the opposition political party, no initiative he submits will come on the agenda, such as no initiative by the Serbian Radical Party so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55063	Twenty-two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The difference between an hour and a hour is the time I used as chairman. National MP Zoran Antic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55064	After all we've heard, we have at least one right to a short, correct replica. Since, according to Article 3, the exercise of the rights set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this article is decided by the President of the National Assembly, i.e. you as chairman, and at the moment there is neither the head of the parliamentary group nor the deputy, I would simply like to ask the SRS gentleman to take a little care of what the citizens of Serbia think. I understand that 21 of us may be a problem for them, we're constantly being taken into our mouths, and in every way they're looking down on us, to embarrass us with a large number of false and false data, but I don't think we're the problem with us 21, I think for you, gentlemen of the SRS, the problem is voters, however, the fact that a large number of these people no longer have confidence in the policy you're leading. I ask you to take a lot more into account in the future, to clear up yourself and to realize that, above all, the political programme, new ideas, new contents are something that you are expected to do if you want to fix your rating, rather than defecating the Serbian Progressive Party and Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you, I think it was correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55065	You've been given your word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since you didn't specify what was broken in the Rules of Procedure, I have no way of giving you an explanation. (Natasa Jovanovic, from town: Replica. ) Natasa Jovanovic's National MPs, you do not have the right to reply. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: How can I not, he mentioned my party? ) National MPs, please look at the provisions of a member who speaks of the right to reply. I would ask MP Zoran Krasic not to throw away and ask all MPs to cooperate in the application of the Rules of Procedure. The right to replica is a decision held by the chairman and cannot be called upon to have the party mentioned. In that case, the right to replica, by decision of the chairman, may be given to the president or vice-president of the parliamentary group or by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. There was nothing offensive about the content of the presentation of MP Zoran Antic, who received the word on the basis of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. On the contrary, the tone was well-intentioned and without any offensive expression that would give the basis for a replica to anyone representing a party or who is a president or an authorised representative, unless you consider it merely an insult to mention the party's name. I don't think so, so you don't have the right to a replica. National MP Gordana Pop Lazic has a word. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic has applied. I just said a lot of words, asking me to say at least one word to him, which I explained to him that he had no right to reply. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I seek the word of the Rules of Procedure, you do not listen to my words. You have no right to a replica, I explained. People's MP, I've spent a lot of valuable congregation time explaining to you. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: You were looking at Natasa Jovanovic's MP, so I thought you were talking to her. I look at all MPs, MPs, always, however I know and know it, because it is important to see you all at the same time, because I like you all at the same time, and I must be careful that no one is offended and hurt by the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gordana Pop Lazic has a word, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Can I speak then within my time? ) National MP Dragan Todorovic asks if he can speak within his time, use time. People's MP, I'd like you to consult the Rules of Procedure. The president of the parliamentary group has the right to receive the word... (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: When you are here, it is essential to consult the Rules of Procedure. ) The MP says that it is essential to use the Rules of Procedure when I am here. No, MP, you need a Rules of Procedure. So the president of a parliamentary group or an authorised representative has the right to receive a word during the session before moving to apply for the word of the MPs. If he doesn't use his time before the debate begins, he has the right to receive a word when the speeches of all the MPs are finished. (Dragan Todorovic, from town: Maestroln, bright, bravo! The People’s MP praises the chairman. I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop Lazic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55066	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we could, on the basis of this legitimate request from the Liberal Democratic Party, conduct a theoretical debate on the construction of democracy in the last twenty-years in our country and as far as we came today. I believe that in this theoretical debate, we would all agree that parliamentary groups should reflect the will of voters, that committees should reflect the power of parliamentary groups, which has once again been passed on to them by voters, and that basically every democracy stands the "one man, one vote", by the Greek policy and so on. But since not everyone can vote for everyone today and everyone doesn't know everyone, we have choices like we have, proportionate, that reflect the will of the voters in the most appropriate way. Citizens of their sovereign right to decide everything are conveying to us MPs, or their representatives, in this House of Representatives. Is there more crime and greater crime than stealing the electorate's will? I believe you'll all say it doesn't exist. This is the theoretical part, but in practice we have had the opportunity to see that Parliament can also count 308 MPs, as it was in 2002 and 2003, that it could have 248 MPs; the chairman today says as it says in the Constitution, 250 MPs. Of course, most citizens know that. But most students of the first year of the Faculty of Political Sciences also know what the committees of the National Assembly are and how they form and that they should represent the relationship of power in parliament. Mr. Todorovic gave you one piece of evidence that is unquestionably expressed in percentages, how much you have damaged the SRS Parliamentary Group. We are now going back to the subject of principle, and that is what Ms. Natasha wanted to draw your attention to, that we cannot bureaucratize one representative home, we cannot bureaucratise parliament, we need to perform politically here, and that we must, if necessary, educate politically, and that we also educate the public to understand the importance of our vote and that this vote is not cast out in vain, but that the one who received it will respect the will of the voters. As far as the election results are concerned, and how the citizens decide in the elections, as a result of many factors, we always, as far as the SRS is concerned, take off our hat by voter's will and acknowledge their electoral will. We've never banged pots, we've never strike hunger because of the electoral will of voters, we've never thirsty, we've never worn whistles around our necks, we've never banged talambas. We've been waiting for a new chance and we've been trying to prove to the voters that they've been cheated, because one is the promise and the other is the fulfillment of those promises. The fact is, we've got double arches here, we've got to step away from the principle. You see, we respect one law when it comes to the Law on the financing of political parties, so this parliamentary group that was formed out of nowhere and out of nothing, which, when our citizens look at TV and one of them speaks, is signed with the SNS, and we know that there is no such political party that the citizens voted for, does not get a penny from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So you don't admit them to exist in fact, because if they did, you'd have to give them money, which would break the law. On the other hand, you give them the opportunity to participate in the work of the National Assembly, to influence important decisions in this country; you give them the opportunity to participate in the work of the Committee at the expense of the SRS Parliamentary Group and the SRS programme, based on which we have received so many votes and so many MPs. So who's cheating on who now? The citizens say, "We have been deceived by these radicals." We didn't. We remained faithful to what we promised them in the election campaign. But one emulsion has been set aside that has moved to the other side, wants to join the EU, wants to join NATO a pact, wants to sell to the mother, sell to the father for money, wants to extradite Ratko Mladic, even though they did not talk about it in the election campaign. Where are we? We've made chaos a precedent, but that precedent has a domino effect. Now, if you want to be principled, you should not go out to meet the LDP request because you are neither a request from the Serbian Radical Party. On the other hand, we as a principled political party want to support and support this LDP request, because we think they have the right to do so, as we have had the right to do so. But we're always well-meaning you, you can go back twenty years, all our warnings have been established. It turns out you've shown remorse or paid a high price for disobeying. Not just you, but all those who were in power, and forgot the fact that today they're in power, and tomorrow they're in opposition and they're supposed to work when they're in power the way they'd like to be treated tomorrow by some other government when they're in opposition. It is the principle of politics, but also the principle of running all other state affairs. You see, if we're not principled here on the election will of voters, how are we going to convince voters, or how are you going to convince voters that all criminals are criminals for you, that for you all those who carry corruption are equally responsible for the law, and not one who is not? You can only do so, you are guided by some current interests and current calculations – as long as we need, 126, 127, 128. Let's make it a backup, it doesn't matter. But it doesn't lead to anything, you get it on your head eventually. On the other hand, we're losing any voter reputation, which is, I think, even the goal of all the ruling nomenclatures since 2000. Although you swear on institutions, you are still doing everything possible to defile all these state institutions to the citizens, or to the Serbian people, especially the parliament where their representatives sit. It's something we really don't want to let go of, and we don't want to take part in it. As benign as this agenda seems, we must take advantage of the opportunity to try again to open our eyes to you who make decisions. We know most people can do whatever they want. You said yourself, you swear on the Rules of Procedure, not the Constitution. You have a discretionary right to decide one way or another. Then not even the Rules of Procedure, but your discretionary right. It's not the atmosphere this parliament should be working in. That's why we've got so many bad results and, sometimes, a bad debate and something that can't lead us to what all citizens would like to be brought to this debate, which is to let those who are proposing laws know whether they're possibly wrong, what can be fixed and what is it that makes it possible for every citizen to adopt this law or take away so that he knows that the law is being prepared and determined. We can't do this job here because it's only important to you that 127 people be and that they make decisions, not what's good for the state. Since we have already reached this precedent, although it is not a precedent but a request that is legitimate, I would like to ask you what about MP Jovan Damjanovic, who has retained his membership in the Committee on International Relations and the reduction of poverty? It is the same situation – it has been selected on the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj; it has become, as you say, an independent MP. These are the reasons why these percentages are not adequate and do not reflect the composition of the National Assembly. Of course we could all talk about this and give you countless examples of you breaking some basic democratic rules, where you didn't show principle, but only the strength of most people, but I think you're aware of that yourself. Those who want to deal with it have stenographic notes since 2000. There's been a lot going on. They could write doctoral thesis on the subject without having any plagiarisms, that is, that is, no one repeats. There's so much of that material. Now, let me remind Gash Knezevic, if he has any other doctorate to write, since this one will be taken away from him, he can deal with the matter. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55067	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is eleven minutes and twenty seconds. The word has been given by MP Dragan Stevanovic; after it, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic, you from the Democratic Party authorities and we from the Serbian Radical Party can really argue over a lot. We're on two-half-one political scenes, we're opposed to ideological or whatever you want, but about one thing, you may not admit, in this assembly and this assembly, as long as this assembly lasts, we won't be able to slow down or we shouldn't argue. The changes we're talking about right now are the consequences. Today we are discussing the consequences of your perception of freedom, your perceptions of political, democratic, parliamentary and all other freedoms. Unlike you, the SRS believes that in one state and in its parliament, which is its representative body, political rights, civil rights and freedoms exist only when the political will is identified by the will of the state, or by the will of the government that governs it. If you convince us today that the will of the people expresses the composition of this Parliament, that the will of the people in Serbia today is expressed in the political functioning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of all its, such and such bodies, we will, of course, recognise, but there are no arguments for such a thing. If we weren't right, we wouldn't be discussing this nonsense today. We support the idea of the Liberal Democratic Party to replace its member. She's right about that. But we repeat, these amendments remove or try to eliminate the consequences of freedom, or political law that you have promoted above all in this House, and then in all the institutions in this country. Remember, gentlemen of the government, here today are the answers to why the state goes like this. When there's no order in parliament, he can't be in the government. When there's no order in parliament, it can't even be in the province, it can't be in local self-government. Today we listen to the sermons of people compared to discussions from the Serbian Radical Party, which apparently have an identity problem. Mr. Antic comments on what Natasa Jovanovic said. On the official website of the Republika Srpska Assembly, he is a member of the Serbian Radical Party, here he writes. It's no longer a shame for him, they had an argument with shame when they left the U.S.S. This is a mess for us, this is a mess for us. We believe, Mrs. Komic, you may try to correct this shame, their shame by creating a new site, but, in essence, it takes time to correct the consequences that this political monster has sown in parliament and then in Serbia; some healthy, new and organised political processes are needed, primarily elections, and to break up with the creators of such perceptions of political rights and freedoms as they are in power today in Serbia. Why is that happening? No response from the authorities. Look at how the session started today. Don’t look elsewhere for answers why we change, why everything that happens in the congregation happens. We are talking about a law that regulates one sector, which generates the most problems in Serbia. We talked about it a few days ago, you hosted a public hearing, and I'll comment on that later. The government, no less, sent us a minister of sports. But how can there be order when he's not here? It just can't. The fish are cleaned from the head, not the tail. Mrs. Comic, while the government and you who seem to it do not face it and open your eyes to that fact, Serbia cannot change and Serbia cannot provide such a future. We've turned the congregation... I don't know what else. Laws are passed at public hearings. In those laws, which you do not essentially adopt in parliament but in public hearings, you have installed your pathological perception of political democratic rights and freedoms because you have defined them as the political interest of the Democratic Party or the ruling majority today in Serbia. Instead of opening a debate here in parliament, invite us to a public hearing for which you interrupt the parliamentary debate, invite us to public hearing to gather a bill that is not even in the draft, but rather a proposal and that the irony is greater is not written in Serbia, but in Brussels. (President: National MP, agenda theme – selection of committee members, on the basis of the proposal from the mandated promoter Nenad Milic, LDP. Please, on the subject of the agenda. I'm trying, Mrs. Komic, to analyze the causes that led to what we're discussing today. (President: National MP, the reason that led to this item of the agenda is that the authorised representative submitted a proposal to amend the board member. Please, on the agenda. It would be nice if you could tell us why they suggested it. Because you have promoted the freedoms that have caused chaos in Serbia, that everyone has their mandate, that everyone behaves as they will, but those freedoms that we are talking about now are not only valid for our party. I listened the other day, here, correct me if I was wrong, and you personally and half of your colleagues during the two-thirds of their debate on the Law on the Selection of People's MPs has criticised me until the last sentence – but we will support this law. Are those freedoms? (President: People's MPs, they're not freedoms, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, what's happening now. Please, on the agenda. When and if any draft law on selecting Members of the People, I will be happy to participate, especially with you, and I do not believe that our discussions will differ greatly. Now you're talking about the agenda point. That's what I'd like to hear, if we had a discussion... Because opinions on these violations of political rights, freedom, electoral, democratic, parliamentary principles and you understand and notice, but you must not speak of them. I would like you to rule that way because the party orders you and asks you as a high-quality party soldier, but where they are inspired and such barriers are Brussels, that is Serbia's problem. (President: National MP, for the last time now I am asking you, not Brussels, not the bill, not the challenge of public hearing, but the election of members of the Committee of the Assembly, at the proposal of Nenad Milic, please. I agree. I'll do my best to finish this. As far as the SRS is concerned, it is really not disputed to support something that represents the protection of political party interests, since the Party Constitution defines and identifies as factors of political life, not some interesting, political, tycoon, such groups. That's why we're gonna support this. We believe that by neither these changes, nor the changes to the site, nor by calling for a Rules of Procedure or by sharing lessons and reminders, you will not essentially change the political environment in this parliament, you will not change political life in Serbia. You can't do that anymore. And even less is the ability of those who desperately strive to look like you and in their efforts and despair make circuses of themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55069	Eight minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He's the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55070	Mrs. Comic, how much time do I have? (President: 27 minutes are available to you. I'll buy you two or three minutes to go to Brussels as soon as possible. I didn't break anything, did I? We'll be on our way. You see, May moon, the month I praise the Democratic Party, October 5th gave us this joy. There are few people in this room, as well as in this meeting, who remember those times when the working bodies of the National Assembly were formed on the basis of agreements of political parties represented with MPs in the National Assembly. A very precise statistics were carried out and, depending on the number of board members, each party had so many members of those committees as appropriate. It was similar in the distribution of the post of president and vice president to those committees. As a rule, all these decisions were taken unanimously in the National Assembly, and the authorities and the opposition voted, almost no one was concerned with the name of the MPs from another political party. It is a reflection of not only tolerance, but also respect for parliamentaryism, because, however, it also respects MPs and, thus, voters. When the time comes to vote on the bill and on some other serious acts then, of course, you know who the government is and who the opposition is. In accordance with that division and some other criteria, MPs are pleading. Then there was a change of practice. How did this practice change? There's been a change because the government insisted on having a majority on each of these committees. Later, a problem arose that most cannot provide a quorum for the committee's work. Two months ago, our Rules of Procedure was changed in that part, or it came into effect, perhaps a little earlier, a provision where, besides a member of the board, we also have a deputy board member. Even that doesn't work, most people can't secure the quorum. Then most people are angry that the opposition doesn't want to give a quorum. I remember, in 2004, 2005, in 2006, you couldn't get the Democratic Party's MPs to give a quorum, just work, but stand outside the door, so when the government makes a quorum, then they "quickly". All right, everybody's coming in front of the cash register. I guess it's a democratic standard, when it's promoted by the Democratic Party. But that doesn't apply now. When the SRS submits a proposal to change its member on a committee, then some new percentages begin. When the LDP submits the same kind of request, your pants shake and you have to adopt it immediately. It turns out that those who voted for LDP, no matter how many voted, are citizens of the front row, and those who voted for other opposition parties are third-class citizens. It's similar with friendship groups. The proposal is for me to be president of a group of friendships with Iran. Just work, Micunovic, you can cut off his hand before he schedules a session to elect me president. And for two years, it's been cramping, it's gone, it can't be with Iran. Why can't he go with Iran? Because Iran has not recognised Kosovo's independence. If Iran had recognised an independent Kosovo, that group of friendships would have been made. They're very interesting things that happen. Then we're in a situation where we don't know what a parliamentary group is. The parliamentary group is an ordinary technical tool, not even a legal entity, but rather a presummation that members of that parliamentary group have the same political opinion and that for some time it is much better to have that political opinion declared by three, four, five members of the parliamentary group than each member of the parliamentary group individually. And nothing further than that. But, no, here is the hard work of the presidency of a party, a parliamentary group has been created, and you have entered the history of parliamentaryism. This has not happened in any parliament, except in parliament when the Democratic Party dominates and when it has been driven towards the European Union. Then everything is possible because the European Union, the objective – the European Union, covers everything, is justified by every means. We'll probably be entitled to a replica in addition to this Rules of Procedure only if someone with a gun pointed at us in this room. Why? When you tell the truth here, it's an insult. If an MP starts talking here, and you can see it doesn't matter, so you tell him, "Secret," you get a warning right away. And he swore by my side in the church. So when do we trust him? Here, cheated on God, cheated on the citizens here, cheated on the congregation. However, it is impossible for some to cheat, but it is impossible for the truth to be an insult! How can truth be an insult? The man stole the electricity; you ask him, did you pay for the electricity, did they catch you, how much did you get in prison? And then he says, "insult." (President: Article 106, agenda item. Not yet, but to be sure. ) I get the impression, on the basis of this proposed agenda and these agenda points, that Mr Micunović is conducting a kind of discrimination against the MPs, you know. Bojana accepts as an MP, and Mr. Delic as a general and an MP does not accept. Do you remember when we had an argument a month ago, it was also some sort of replacement? You stole our place. Officially, the president of the National Assembly, since he is the proposing that decision, on an initiative or a proposal from the parliamentary group. And now, on the weak shoulders of Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, neither guilty nor debtor, anything caused, the president of the National Assembly, falls our anger and people's anger. Why is that? Why are you putting up with this? You know, these are some things... Here one principle was promoted, you know – the percentage of rackets a man takes, he believes that such a percentage has a popularity in the next election. It's just amazing! This is where some imaginary force is demonstrated. For two and a half years, we can't get an answer to the question of how it's possible that you at the National Assembly on the National Assembly site are leading some people like they're still members of the SRS, and we threw it out, in principle, "I don't even get my hands on it." You force them to represent themselves falsely, you falsely represent them. Then we wonder what's going on in the government, what's going on in the local congregations, why they're running here, over there. The question that Jojic asked you this morning for Pancevo can apply to all municipalities in Serbia. As far as the mandate goes, it's... (President: No agenda theme, MP. It is about the composition of the board. (President: No, MP. The topic of the agenda is the selection of Committee members on the basis of a proposal from the mandated promoter, Nenad Milic. ) Mrs. Komic, it is the subject of the selection of members, but the subject and committee is like a working body. I hope you understand, it's not hard to understand, it's not hard to be nice. So, you pick a name and a last name to get into something, and that something is a board. To talk about the name and last name, we need to talk about something, and that's the board. Look, now I'm going to tell you a secret, and now it's not even a secret. I am struggling, I cannot force people to submit an official proposal to resolve Micunovic and no longer be president of the Foreign Affairs Committee. What he catches, it's a disaster. Did you see it in Strasbourg? He reduced our number of women, so they wouldn't let us work. That's his fault. So they attacked Jeremiah the other day. He defended himself by reading Mitsunovic's quotes. You know, there's a problem. Anything that threatens parliamentaryism should be removed. You know, we're now in a position to discuss something that's purely abuse. Someone has abused their function, doesn't want to finish the job after the Rules of Procedure. In this case that today is the point of the agenda, which I'm talking about, it shows the way it should be right. I ask the question, if this is with Vesna Pesic the right way, why haven't you applied it before, in other situations, when the Serbian Radical Party proposed to change members on some committees? What's the reason? We also took a concrete example – Damjanović; he is now in the same position as Vesna Pesic, independent. We asked for that independent to return to us what was taken from us by telling you that he had been kidnapped. You didn't want to go back. I come to the conclusion that you like Ceda Jovanovic much more than Dragan Todorovic, but what does this have to do with politics? Explain to me, what does this have to do with politics? What does that have to do with the Rules of Procedure? We here every day must demonstrate that in the right hand we hold the Constitution, in the left hand of the Law on the National Assembly, in front of ourselves the Rules of Procedure and thousands and thousands of laws; in this way we act both educationally and educationally, each showing that we respect what the citizens have decided. Here we now have the situation, thanks to Dragoljub Micunovic, that in a maestral way it is demonstrated that with 126 you can cover any abuse. Then it's no wonder there's an increase in the crime of abuse of official position. No wonder. It's hardly like anyone's going to take any credit at the Fund for Development; it's all going to jail, as I see it, unintentional spending of funds. Then we're surprised, violence, crime, a little bit, so RTS, every other day, properly informs us of the number of arrests. And it's all coming from here. Be careful, you call on the students of law, political sciences to attend, to watch how the National Assembly conducts, respect for the Constitution, the law, demonstrates parliamentaryism, tolerance, how democracy is nurtured. They can't learn that here. How can they learn that here? You know what citizens do when they monitor the transmission, when they see – most, empty joke, radicals all in their place? Then they ask the question – who did we vote for? It thus demonstrates that people are not interested in what is said in the National Assembly. Why? They're used to making major decisions in some dark, in some tunnel, untransparent, and all they do here is make some verbal cover, if they could convince someone to believe it. That's our problem. We are not attacking the draft decision; it is the right that belongs to the Liberal Democratic Party based on the number of votes, the number of mandates etc. They have won these mandates; they should be represented on all committees in proportion. But why don't you respect our right? Why are you breaking our rights? Why do you hate SRS voters? You don't like others, you don't like others, you hate our voters. Why do you bother us to establish good neighbourly relations with all countries that support Serbia? It's a very important committee for foreign affairs. Any state that has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija for us is a first-class country, a friend of the first-class. We showed you on that case what happens when the president blocks. Here, I call on Bojan, since he will be a new member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, to exert additional pressure, since he respects them, that Mr Micunovic will agree to schedule that session, that I be elected president of the group of friendships with Iran, so that I call Ahmedinejad here to tell us what Iran was doing when he said we do not recognise independent Kosovo, to give him applause, to welcome him here, to express our gratitude, to ask them to represent our interests in the UN; well, Mrs Comic, immediately the next day to invite the representatives of that country where we are members of the Friendship Group to explain why they did not recognise independent Kosovo, to applaud them too, to thank them too, to discuss economic co-operation, friendship, to share our jobs. Now, Micunović shows up... I know that he is the "father of democracy", the "quack of democracy" in Serbia, all of which came from him. But, please, don't exaggerate in that respect. Don't overdo it in that respect. Allow him to respect the Constitution and the law. All right, man, let's go. Well, if we don't want to be friends with those who respect our situation... So don't, please. Here, I'm going to put Bojana in charge first, and hopefully Chad will warn him, too, that we're looking for that group of friendships to form. There's a few more that haven't been formed. Imagine the scandal: last year our delegation was there, the president of Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic's Assembly, the cultural woman, promised a return visit, that they would invite them to form friendship groups; they made a group of friendships and waited a year, not only that call, officially, but to form a group of friendships and to establish some contacts at the parliamentary level. Today in the world, space for this so-called. Parliamentary diplomacy. This diplomacy through the Ministry is always somewhat stretching, has some of its patterns, and parliamentarians spread that diplomacy in a different way, much better, more quality and cultivate that co-operation. We're blocked for one man, only one man. Uncomfortable and Slavica, she says – I will, but you saw, and above the president of the Assembly there is, and he is the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. How is that possible? The president of the National Assembly in some variants may also be the "leader" of the duties of the President of the Republic. This institution has to work seriously, this ratio here and this mathematics must be very precise, with the tolerance allowed. You remember, Mrs. Comic, as far as we were working we were gallant, so we took one vice-presidential seat to the representatives of the Hungarian national minority, made one gesture; we were entitled to two places, so Išpanovic took one place belonging to the radicals. We take the state seriously, we take this institution seriously. We have to radicals, you know. Since 1881, we have fought to establish parliamentary democracy, fought against the monarchy, and history has recorded it. Since we follow these traditions, we need to know, we have to respect it. It's not easy for us for once either, but that principle must be respected if we want to have a normal state, if we want this to be a place where problems can be solved. No wonder what people say today, then, when they do not obey the Constitution and the law in the congregation, why should they respect the Constitution and the law in the municipality? Then you have a general mess. In this general mess, fuckers are best managed, according to Ivo Andric. They only fuck in chaos. A normal man can't function in chaos. This is where people cry out for one normal relationship, for one neat thing, that when they wake up in the morning, they know nothing's changed. Since I come to the Assembly early, I always look into the flag to see that you haven't changed the state overnight. That's what's going on with us in no time, just Gojko changing the flag and leaving. This has to be the ultimate institution, and if this isn't the ultimate institution, then don't be surprised what's going on in our lives. Look, we live in a time of discrimination. If I want to raise a loan for my client from the bank, I'm told - it's forbidden. But if "Sojic" raises, it is allowed. You see, now because of "Shajic" the draft law on the financing of political parties is being amended and what was banned in 2003 will now be allowed. You see how democratically changing principles. If I'd stolen someone's resignation, I'd have rotted in solitary. He takes good things, and he says, "I forgot where I put them, there's nothing." And Europe talks to him, can't wait for him to come to power. What kind of Europe is this, amen people? What are the intentions of this Europe? It's all clear. Let's let Europe go now, let it go with its problems, there's plenty of them. I just want to warn you, and today we have done it from the Serbian Radical Party, that two arches should not be applied in the same situation, but only one; finally, to restore respect for these principles. After all, you voted, you wrote it to appear in both the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you wrote it, apply it the way you wrote it, not from session to session, from case to case, depending on which party it is concerned, to demonstrate abuse and disrespect of the Rules of Procedure. Don't. It always appears as a boomerang and then it's pretty bad. It is not good for every debate in the National Assembly to be burdened with inter-party uncleared relationships over those things that are elemental. As it is not good to do the Law on selecting Members of Parliament without general agreement, the Law on the financing of political parties without general agreement. There are so many rules that cannot be passed unless there is a great agreement between all political entities in the National Assembly. The National Assembly is the central city of political life in Serbia. You may not understand that. In the seven-eightth provisions of the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the political party is a political entity, a constitutional category. In the 1990 constitution, only two members are instructed by the political party. Is it possible that we had the best Rules of Procedure in 1991? Is it possible that in 1991, 1992, 1993, we had respect for the elemental postulates of democracy?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55071	Please, the history of the Assembly is always interesting, but it's not a topic right now. You don't want another word? Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He's 12 minutes away.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55072	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this previous debate could still have drawn a lot of things that should serve as a teaching for the ruling majority to change things. I don't think it's ever too late and we should go that way. We have here a proposal to replace one MP with another member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Apparently, a completely trivial thing, which has been resolved without any problems so far, because this job in some way meant the elemental democratic traditions and principles that were respected in this assembly, which is the fact that all, in line with the parity they have in the Serbian Parliament, had the right to a number of MPs on those committees. It was never questioned until 2008. In the same case, when it comes to an independent member of one parliamentary group and when it comes to an independent member of the other parliamentary group, you have two totally different relations. A member of the committee is granted the right to be replaced by one parliamentary group. We respect that and it is in line with agreements and some democratic principles, but why is the right of another parliamentary group not respected? Why are you introducing First Order MPs, MPs of the second order? Why are you introducing the right to exist first-row citizens and second-class citizens? The opposition is a minority. The minority is protected in all spheres of life by the laws, because most of them in themselves are sufficient, it has power. You know, when the right of sovereignty began to be denied, it was because he decided everything, so slowly through human civilization, this right began to be restricted and there was a very high degree of protection of the rights of citizens, i.e. rights, in such cases as parliament, opposition, minority rights. Because you like most people can decide everything. He raises the hand of 126 MPs and the job is done. But that's not the purpose of parliamentaryism. Parliament is a body in which, above all, certain rules should rule, certain procedures that would allow for a more coherent life in the country. When can you do that? Then when those rules are respected, when you respect them all in the same way, and not for one like this, for the other. If we were from the Serbian Radical Party some national minority, you would be raised against them by planes from the Avians because of what you're doing here. Just don't put any yellow ribbons on us. That's all. How can we fight for our rights? And you from the ruling majority keep your mouth shut. You don't think that one minute you can get into the same situation. Remember the time you left the meeting of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Some of them were clapping. We didn't, because we knew a bear could come to anyone's door. And you keep your mouth shut, you're okay with that. How can you, for some time, rely on some of the rights that you have if most of them deny you the right to do so? By what are you going to say – we also respected the rights? No, they will say, "You did not respect it either, and neither will we. Don't defend us. You have to defend yourself first. I think it is something that should be reintroduced into the life of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, to introduce consensus, an agreement; not in principle "take or leave". You're calling us for a deal, but this deal essentially has only one meaning for these almost three years – take it or leave it. Then it's democratic to decide. We vote, most decide and finish the job. Mrs. Comic, you remember how it used to be. The committees are as agreed... It didn't say that in the Rules of Procedure; it doesn't say everything on the tarab, let alone in the Rules of Procedure. A rule was respected that, say, parties, in accordance with the number of MPs, have the right to a number of presidents. The rule was then respected that from the strongest committees (the Finance Committee, the Defence and Security Committee, etc.) be representatives of the opposition. You're the one who brutally trampled it. It was respected, up to a certain limit, that the board presidents should not be from the same party as ministers, because it is, people, completely pointless – the cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you. You don't respect basic things about legislative and executive authority. How can the chairman of the board be from the same party as the minister? Will he call him? He won't. It would really be crazy to expect the board president to call his minister, in some cases the party president. Come on, let's not lie. That's impossible. And you brutally stepped on it. Remember the friendship group. These are all the things that have been hit in the last three years. And you bear responsibility, above all, the Democratic Party, because you are the largest in this coalition and you dictate how the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will function. The opposition's right to propose to the presidents of the friendship groups was respected, and in some order we chose countries where we would have the presidents of the group of friendships, from the largest opposition party, and then the ruling, so to the last in line that we had the right to the presidents of the friendship groups. Not only are you not respecting anymore, you're not interested in groups of friendships for which someone estimates, and here we've heard it's to the greatest extent... Or maybe someone's hiding behind Dragoljub Micunovic... You simply don't form certain groups of friendships. For what? Who gives you the right to deny the right of MPs who want to be in a group of friendships with certain states? Here, you're with America. It doesn't occur to us. Do you need me now to deny being in a group of friendships with an American congressman? It doesn't occur to us. That's what you want, you want, go. But why do you deny us the right to form a group of friendships with Iran? Why do you deny us the right to form a group of friendships with Belarus? For what? Because you were told by the European Union, the OSCE? Who told you that? Or did someone get a light bulb? As someone had a light bulb banned on Radio Belgrade from Atlantis; for God's sake, it is not in line with new ideology. Aman, you guys, are you crazy? It's been a while since Communism. I know some people are sorry, but this is parliamentary democracy. You must respect the rights of the minority. You have to respect a different opinion. How can you even call yourself the Democratic Party? Come on, please, it's occurred to someone, some new Zedanov to shut down the "Atlantis" show. Does that mention Dragoljub Micunovic again? Him, Dragoljub Micunovic. You named yourself the Democratic Party, based on what? Based on your actions? You're responsible for this, no one else. You're responsible for all of this. In the end, explain to us, Mrs. Komic, since you know everything best, don't be modest, it seems to me that you know best, since I don't get answers from the other side and you're not there to avoid giving an answer, just explain to me at last one simple thing – why does the SRS not have the same right as the LDP when it comes to an independent MP? Why? Believe me, I can't convince and calm these people here. (President: I trust you, you cannot calm them down. See that we agree, we just need to get to that point. It's not hard. Only if you want to be democratic is we can get to the point soon enough to agree. Would you please explain to me how it is possible for one party to ask to replace an independent member of the board, to appoint another party in its place without the other party having the right to do so? I hope, if you give an adequate answer, that these people will calm down and that they can finally go home peacefully to sleep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55073	Anyone else want to use their rights? No, I don't. ) If not, I conclude a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON PRIVATE DRUSTS (individualities) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Milorad Buha, Zoran Krasić, Nenad Popović, Jovan Palalić, Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Đerić, Mladen Grujic, Suzana Grubišić, Siniša Stamenković, Vladan Jeremić, Tomislav Nikolić, Jurvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefana Budimirović, Stefan Zakovar, Oto Kismarton, Milan Knezić, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašmić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljadjan Miladinović, Boris Peljadavić, Milejić, Milejić, Miljadić, Miljadić, Miljadaj, Miljadaj, Milica, Milica, Milica, Milena Postić, Milić, Miljast, Miljadjan Žar Žar Žar Žaljan Žaljan Žaljan Žalić, Žaljan Žaljan Žalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žalić. National MP Susana Grubjesic has writtenly withdrawn amendments to Articles 11, 91, 144, 247, 360, 497, 498, 515, 522 and 573, which she submitted on 29 April 2011. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. To Article 4. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Before I give my word to the People's MP, who is the applicant of the amendment just to remind you that representatives are authorised: PUPS – Sinisa Stamenković, SPS-JS – Dejan Radenkovic, the Parliamentary Group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica – Arsen Djuric, the SRS Group of MPs – Dragan Stevanović and ZES Parliament Group – Janko Vesenović. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55074	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, here, for the second time today, I will give an explanation of this amendment. Namely, the amendment refers to Article 4. Article 4 defines the company's activity. Compared to some time 15 years ago, 20 years ago in the legal system, the company's activity is more liberally defined. In any case, it is good from an economic point of view and for the sake of an economic environment, it no longer needs as much formality as it used to be, but the legislator has, the position of the SRS, made a proposal that is missing. By considering all the provisions of this law and this article we took into consideration and proposed a completely different definition of action. In its proposal, the proposer says: “The society has too much activity, and it can carry out all other acts that are not prohibited by law, regardless of whether they are established by a founding act or by a statute. “ In the amendment, we have defined our activity in a completely different way, and we have said: “Society performs all the activities established by the founding act, or statute, which are not prohibited by law. “ What is the fundamental difference? The fundamental difference is that the company's activity must be defined. Where defined? In the founding act. It doesn't matter if they weigh, etc. In modern conditions of business, in the modern ambience of businesses very quickly change their performance; so, apart from most of their activity, they take over some of the other activities that they deal with in a slow way, in the majority part, etc. It is a great dynamic, especially with smaller businesses and from this aspect is important, and also from the aspect of social control and accountability and the risks of business, that every company in its founding act must have defined rules of conduct and in a formal sense defined the activity it deals with. By formulating this, you will only formally meet the needs of the founding authority. You'll get the approval of the competent registration authority and then it's irrelevant. In your explanation, you say: “The proposed amendment is not accepted because it would take a step backwards from the practice of entering into the founding act, or statutes not all the activities that society is dealing with, but only a major activity. Otherwise, we would return to the practice of untransparently listing the company's activity in these acts and constantly annexing these acts whenever any action the society wishes to engage in is lacking on that list. “ There are no endless lists of activity, only the activity that this society is dealing with. Here's a concrete example: the inspector comes into control and it's normal to look for company acts; the company's act stands, for example, commercial activity. Meanwhile, the company has changed one, two or maybe five actions. What's the inspector's mission? To control the same act. The act may be a solution to the competent authority and some founding act. There's business in both of them. The company is no longer engaged in commercial activity. What's the inspector to do now? How can he exercise control? The company's acts only contain this activity. Minister, think again about this proposal. I think this is celery and legal, you won't have any problems in practice. Because in practice, the inspection bodies will surely come across this problem that I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55075	Thank you, Mr. Buha. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55076	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we also said in principle that this is indeed, rather strange, the only serious item of the agenda of the current session. In view of that finding and the fact that we have submitted 50 amendments on behalf of the SNS, it is not too much, given that the proposal for a law on companies contains about six hundred members. In particular, in this case I will talk about an amendment relating to Article 4 of this Act. Let me mention once again, in addition to the situation that this law has tried to address, relating to internal relations in companies, primarily between minority and majority shareholders, and the fact that we have almost daily strikes, the failure to solve these problems by judicial institutions, this bill is not, nor can it solve the accumulated problems in the functioning of companies, in the indifference of our businesses in a situation where internal debts between them reach enormous figures. It finally has an impact on the standard and life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In view of the fact that the currency of payments, let's say, 180 and more days, then the manufacturer must include that delay, or 180 days, in the price of his product, which is partly causing problems with the increase in inflation. The law has also not been sufficiently involved in preserving dinars as guardians of value and as the only legal means of payment. But all relations in the economy and functioning of companies and all entities cannot resolve one law. These are the basics of the findings that we presented in the principle debate, which the Serbian Progressive Party brought both to the citizens and to you. In the draft law in Article 4(2), we propose that the words "registration or" be deleted. In order for this to be understood for all those who are following this transmission, the said Article provides that ‘a special law may condition the registration or exercise of a particular activity by issuing prior authorisation, consent or other act of the competent authority’. We consider it a good enough solution to ensure that the conditions are met by issuing prior authorisation, consent or other act of the competent authority and that the word ‘registration’ is deleted. We have enough examples in practice in which it is enough, let's say, to start doing business, registering companies. Even in large companies, no one controls the necessary technical-sanitary conditions, but it is understood when you register an enterprise, that in the process of carrying out this activity you must meet and know all the parameters and conditions that are mandatory to start with the process of selling, producing anything, not just an act of registration. We don't see any reason why we don't act alike in other cases. In line with that, I'm going to set an example. Let's say that it is imports of medical aid; that imports require the consent of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. However, there is no reason not to register the company as its performance does not begin with the date of registration, i.e. by enroling in the company register, but by granting the Agency in this particular case for the import of those medical aids. Under the draft law and under the applicable company law, a company is obliged to register only one overwork. Even in the founding act, i.e. the company's statute, the proposal prescribes as part of the mandatory content only of excessive action, which does not interfere with it's involvement in other unregistered activities; normally, they should comply with all the laws and regulations of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that nothing in particular is achieved if registration is subject to the authorisation, consent or other act of the competent authority. It is much simpler for the company to register, and that later in certain procedures, for example, when customsing goods or during the procurement process, all these arguments justify the reasons for which the Serbian Progressive Party submitted its amendment to Article 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55077	Thank you, Mr. Rogovic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55078	Article 6(4) is what is the problem for the SNS, because it is an institute which, according to us, is extremely problematic. It is problematic in this regard that the company can prove that the third party was familiar or had to be familiar with the documents of society and social data and prior to its registration. It's highly illogical that someone is responsible for something that a society started to do before its registration, in fact, when it was working in a gray zone. It's illogical to kind of encourage this attitude, I'd say, a gray economy. We already have a big problem with the accuracy of the registered data. The fact is that when it comes to the registration of companies and economic operators, it is going to simplify the registration process itself. That is something the EU expects of us. These documents are often sent by electronic means, sometimes falsified. We have a lot of cases like this. The problem seems to be much bigger when it comes to third parties. It is the third party who can be damaged much more often in business with companies, because unfortunately, we also have phantom, non-existent companies in the register. So, I think by giving societies the opportunity to prove that something happened before they were registered and that this third party had to know that we support an illegal activity and that it is completely illogical and unnecessary to go into the bill with this institute. In front of the Serbian Progressive Party, Tomislav Nikolic, we have suggested that this attitude be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55079	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55080	Dear Chairman, Mr Minister, we have submitted to Article 8 an amendment, believing that it is necessary to add to this article the possibility to define different or specific legal forms of society in other laws. We don't see any problem in that regard, this amendment is being adopted. We have been given an explanation of why the amendment is being rejected – based on the fact that this possibility is already given in Article 1 – but it is necessary in this article that defines legal forms to predict this possibility. In the context of this presentation, I would take advantage of the possibility to address Mr. Minister, who was not there when the debate was held, except during the opening presentation, and to look at some of his views regarding the proposed company law, particularly the claim that this bill improves the minority position of shareholders and, on the other hand, improves corporate governance in companies. At that time, I expressed an opinion that disagrees with what the minister claimed by citing a series of provisions in the company law that support it. There is no doubt that the solutions relating to the reduction of the rights so far had by small shareholders in the context of a derivative lawsuit, when it comes to the possibility of extending the agenda of the company's assembly, when it comes to the possibility of informing – I specifically spoke of it as a big problem, that minority shareholders, under the proposed law, are deprived of relevant information that they might have knowledge and participate and make decisions in the assembly – do not contribute to the fact that minority shareholders have an improved position in this bill in relation to the solutions that were in the Law on Economic Society. I think this is precisely what, because of a series of problems that exist in a large number of stock companies, will create additional tensions. We already have major problems and major rights denials for minority shareholders, and this will further create problems for them and raise the tensions that already exist. I don't think that was at all in the interest of solving the problems that exist in companies. So, from the situation that every shareholder could file a derivative suit, it now is limited by some percentage in the company's capital, to the possibility of extending the congregation's agenda, etc. It is very vague and complicated to define the position of minority shareholders when it comes to shareholders' day and determine who can participate in the company assembly, which can create major problems and major abuses. These deadlines, from the day of the shareholders when the list is established to the day of the congregation, can create or change, if someone wants to abuse that right, the very structure and appearance of that congregation. As far as corporate governance is concerned, we think that here you've complicated things by means of possibility, I'm talking specifically about companies with limited liability, that's not the case for shareholders, that they choose ways to organise themselves: one-home, two-home, then mutual relations within these bodies. We know what the structure looks like and what the largest number of companies with limited responsibility in Serbia looks like – it is one or two founders. So this is about a small number of limited-responsibility societies that would eventually be applied to these solutions, and I really think it's unnecessary. Besides, some of the institutes you've just introduced haven't worked out at all. What is the function of an independent director? He can create huge problems in the functioning of executive committees. The role of non-executive directors is only given as a possibility. However, if their jurisdiction is not precisely discussed, who followed the parallel law and the general company law knows what it means, but I fear that in the atmosphere which is now the government in the Serbian economy and in the companies, this will indeed be a huge problem if those provisions are not worked out. On the one hand, you have reduced the rights of minority shareholders, and on the other hand you have complicated the structure of the bodies involved in making decisions and managing companies. This is, in some ways, the result of corporate governance. Perhaps in a number of countries that have developed company rights, they have different experience in managing companies, it is good, however, the question is whether everything can be recited from these developed countries at this time in Serbia. We are not talking here about the absence of goodwill, we are talking about the absence of an understanding of the reality in which business societies in Serbia function. I'm going to talk about this third segment that's being processed here as brand-new, so entrepreneurs. They have so far had a different status, regulated by a special law. It's really amazing this kind of solidarity responsibility for the manager. I'd like you, Mr. Minister, to give us an explanation for introducing this institute. We understand that the owner, meaning the founder of an enterprise store, needs to be protected from the unconscious business of the manager, but how will someone who accepts to be a manager, conclude a contract to protect themselves from an unconscious owner who, in the most cases currently in Serbia, abuses the business, property and incomes that are generated using them in his personal interest? We can't get into a paradoxical situation where the owner of an enterprise or an entrepreneur is misusing it, has the means to obtain it, and the manager is responsible for its abuses with all his assets. It's something very important to explain here. Perhaps it should have been possible to deal with the problem in a contractual manner between the entrepreneurs and the manager who accepts the function. Like this, anyone who wants to be the head of a store will wonder – hey, I have to answer all my property for what my boss is breaking the law, committing the abuse of property and income he made in business?- I'm sorry. A serious problem, and I'd just like to get an explanation of what he's been making these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55081	Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted the 10th amendment together. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Article 11 and Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Mr. Spasojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55082	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the respected chairman, respected Serbian citizens, the MP group of the NS has submitted an amendment to Article 11(4) to add the words "in addition to the founding act" after the word "action society", and in Article 11(4) after the word "have" the ally "and" is added, so that Article 11(4) reads: "A company has, in addition to the founding act, a statute governing the management of society, an internal organisation of society and other issues in accordance with this law, if the special law is not otherwise prescribed." So, one amendment, Minister, which New Serbia has filed in order to fix this law. Refusing this amendment, the government gave the following explanation. I will purposely read our argument after your argument, in the hope that I will convince you that this is in the interpretation itself, essentially the same thing, but more precisely, given that some time the law will look at a party that might want to open or do something. It is certain that this is how New Serbia has done it more precisely and clearly. Your explanation says this: “The amendment is not accepted since it does not alter the meaning of the provision, nor creates conditions for its more precise application. It is clear from the text of the whole member that each society has a founding act’. Why would there be such an interpretation in the first place, why is such an explanation? Why does someone need to interpret something that's obvious? There may be some ignorant parties who need to look at it. You further state that the company has a statute, unlike other forms of companies. The explanation of our amendment: "We believe that in this position, from the point of view of logic, this formulation is necessary, because otherwise it could be interpreted as having only a statute and not a founding act. “ So, basically, nothing special, we think this is more accurate. We expect the minister to come forward, accept this amendment. I think there's so much authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55083	Thank you. Minister, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55084	Thank you. Your Honour, we have your amendment here. I'm an economist, so I often have questions like that when it comes to me being an economist, I have to read legal texts. This is where you found something that was added... So the original member read: “The company has a statute... ; you have now inserted "aside from the founding act", which is normal and what is known. I can tell you I'm ready to accept your amendment, I don't mind. I said last week, I think, I'm absolutely not vain, every amendment that makes sense is accepted. Once again, I will accept the amendment, and despite the fact that every stock company has a founding act in order to have a statute, but it is not a problem, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55085	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55086	I thank the Minister for hearing this. I repeat again, Minister, it's essentially the same thing, it's just a little bit clearer for the general thing, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55087	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the Government. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Here you go, Mr. Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55088	Mr. Minister, our intention was to create this amendment a condition that, in accordance with the law of the overa signature, it would be an obligation to register, in accordance with the Law on Registration. However, you have, in your explanation of the refusal of this amendment, written that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Bill of Fundamental Rights provides for amendments to the founding acts as an exception, in which we agree, it is an exception, but only if it is explicitly prescribed by the founding act and if that obligation is registered in accordance with the Registration Act, which was the intensity, that this amendment is an integral part of the Registration Act. In this way, members of society are allowed to decide whether or not they want to amend the founding act by means of an overarching act, which will in practice depend on their mutual trust, and depending on whether or not they want to pay compensation for such certificates. Our MP group thought that mutual trust in societies that are only in formation was one of the categories that would likely give some unwanted consequences. We accept fully this third part of the reasoning that you have given, saying that "the decision proposed by the amendment creates unnecessary mandatory economic costs, which is completely contrary to the principle of setting up minimum possible administrative costs in the Republic of Serbia, which is respected when this bill is drawn up". We absolutely agree, it is your intention to save, but the category of trust among members of society may not now, in this period of transition, in this period of change should remain at their will, but rather be a legal obligation. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55089	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Kiric. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55090	Mr. Stamenkovic, I just want a little apropo of this amendment... We didn't accept it for the simple reason that we wanted to get to two goals with this member. The first is to eliminate the company's obligation, whatever company it is, that every change has to verify in court, that there are costs. It's an additional administration, which costs both time and money, on the one hand. On the other hand, we have provided for the possibility for the company to provide for a founding act, if it considers that any changes must be certified in court, to be certified in court. Generally, this solution is in some way an answer to the proposals of the economy to prevent a commitment to each, let's say both administrative and trivial and small, change you have to verify etc. So that's the intensity. I totally understand, but we've left the possibility that if because of lack of trust or lack of trust or for some other reason you still want to verify any change in your company, then do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55091	Thank you. Mr. Stamenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55092	This argument is extremely good, and it's correct. I think it was only necessary to carry out the degree of those obligations and say when and in what case they had to, and when they didn't have to. I know it creates certain legal and certainly administrative and financial obligations, but it's hard for each other in the societies themselves to make that part of the changes that are acceptable to some, for example, are acceptable to one home and not acceptable to another home. Now, that was our, let's say, try to do this like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55093	Thank you. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55094	We have submitted an amendment that Article 13(1) of point 4 should read: ‘at least one of the signatories was legally or commercially incompetent at the time of the conclusion of the founding act’. An explanation for this amendment – we believe that the formulation in the bill leaves room for a wide variety of abuses in the establishment of companies. In theory, it is possible for the founding act to be signed by an adult professional capable person, for example. a number of minors or persons who are for reasons of illness deprived of their business skills, which is pre-warned by the amendment. Besides, that's why the universal law also knows the institution of a legal representative who performs on behalf of such persons in legal traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55095	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mr. Antichu, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55096	The Serbian Progressive Party is dissatisfied with the formulation in Article 13 and that is also in attitude 4, because we do not seem to have a precise and clearly defined issue of legal and business incompetence. The fact is, if this position is literally interpreted, it refers to those societies where all members are legally and commercially incompetent. If we have a situation, let's say, with a partner society, that would be quite all right, where one of the members of the company who makes up two members is legally and economically incompetent and the other is capable. By the way, that would mean that this partner society doesn't exist. On the other hand, we have societies, let's say, with limited responsibility, where you have a larger number of people who start them. In these societies, one person can be legally and businessly incompetent, but that does not mean that society cannot function if it satisfies the legal majority. As a result, we intervened in this text and added what the amendment reads: “and the number of other legal and commercially competent signatories meets the requirements regarding the legal form of the founding society. ” We find this perfectly logical and acceptable and that it fits into every legal norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55097	Thank you, Mr Antic. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted the 14th amendment. The word is Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55098	In Article 14(1), the word ‘judgment’ shall be deleted and the words ‘on the proposal of the authority responsible for the activities of the registration or other interested person’ shall be added. In the light of this amendment, we have stated that we believe that it is primarily necessary here to highlight the link between the competent court and the Agency for Commercial Registers as an authority which, under official duty, comes into possession of founding acts of companies and is therefore the most called upon to respond in due time and to assess whether the founding act has the shortcomings provided for in Article 13 of the Law. It should also be noted that other interested parties in the competent court should also initiate proceedings to determine the invalidity of the founding act. We don't think this is how we know who's running the case at the competent court. We've read the explanation that you refused the amendment, but we believe it could have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55099	Thank you. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55100	This amendment is almost identical to the previous one. Because of the public, it is important to indicate that it is related to Article 13. Proposal for a company law, which speaks of the futility of the founding act. Article 14 is a follow-up to this article and says that the futility of the founding act is determined by the competent court. The Serbian Radical Party's proposal is to add "a business court" to the words "on the proposal of the authority responsible for registering business entities". Why does it matter? It is important to withdraw from legal traffic all legal persons who do not have proper documentation and who do not have what is necessary, in accordance with the legal requirements, in order to be in legal traffic. Who is it that in the name of society, who has the public interest to worry about excluding all those who are illegal in legal traffic from legal traffic? Transitional Agency for Economic Registers. She's supposed to be the one who's gonna clean up legal traffic from people who aren't... There's no other organ. They can be inspection bodies, etc. In your explanation for the refusal of this amendment, you say: "The proposed amendment is not accepted, because the procedure for establishing the invalidity of the founding act triggers the interested party to the suit, not the proposal. “ What kind of person is that? Who's gonna be interested in controlling the Agency whether an act is nothing or not? Is anyone normal gonna go in there and control it? No one will, but the state has to. The state authority which receives, which issues state solutions, the state act in the obligation is, it is the public interest of that authority, to intervene and to initiate. Anything further defined by Article 14, Section 2 and beyond, is fine. Society must have a mechanism for removing persons who do not belong in legal traffic. Minister, once again I ask you to consider this, I don't think it's a bad suggestion, that we're going to complete this gap that you've made because you haven't defined. There are no interested persons, no one's going to get into it, no one's going to do it because it's a formal procedure, because it's a court case, because it has to waste time, waste resources to initiate the procedure. No one's gonna do it. Who's an interested person other than the state to get into this process?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55101	Thank you. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55102	Our parliamentary group has proposed that Article 14 of Article 5 "and carry out other obligations towards society" be replaced by a point, and that the words "to the extent to which it is necessary to comply with the obligations of the company to the third parties" be deleted. Mr. Minister, I note, "to the safe third parties". With this amendment, we wanted to separate the responsibility of those who entered the company they have towards society, towards the state, or tax authorities or any law enforcement bodies and liability to those who represent the security members of society and who need to be compensated for anything that would be a negative consequence of business or the existence of society. In response to the refusal of this amendment, you have given an explanation saying that "the amendment is not accepted for the reason in Article 14(5). The draft law provides for the legal consequence of the forced liquidation of a company carried out in the light of the futility of the founding act, which is the responsibility of the members of the liquidated company for the obligations of that company to third parties." It's about third parties right now. ‘This position regulates the liability of the limited members of the company whether the commanders, members of a limited liability company or shareholders, while the position of the 6th same member shall be governed by the responsibility of the partners and complements. There is no need for members of companies who are limitedly responsible for the obligations of companies to enter capital into that company if they are subject to an emergency liquidation procedure, except in the part needed to meet the obligations of that company towards third parties. “ We think that the deposit of responsibility should have been divided from society to third parties. That is why we have proposed this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55103	Thank you. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55104	When it comes to contracts concluded by members of society, one or more members, the position of the Serbian Progressive Party is that this must be registered in the Register of Business Entities and that such information must be made available to all members of that society, above all I think of the companies, that this information is relevant to third parties, to potential investors. Because what the law allows, means that the issues regulated by the contract can refer to how they will be voted in a company, how profits will be distributed between members of a company, how any block in the decision will be removed, these are all very important issues. We think our amendment is going towards as much transparency and as much trust as possible, as clear as possible of this law. We regret that the Ministry (or Government, however you wish) had little more understanding of this proposal, because we believe it is quite logical in the context of strengthening corporate governance in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55105	The title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed to delete the name and this Article 16 not because we believe that this law could not solve what it refers to, but because it should be solved in a completely different way. In the context of this story and these findings, I will first read the explanation for why this was rejected. It is said that "the amendment is not accepted because the provision of Article 16. The draft law aims, among other things, to prevent the founders of a company from recovering costs in relation to the establishment of a reduced company's assets and thus damage the creditors. In addition, this is fully in line with economic practice. “ When you look at Article 16 there is all “can ” and“ if. ” The promoter says: “Society can return to members in relation to the establishment of a company only if it is provided for in the founding act. “ Minister, shall we return or not return? Either it's in the founding act or it's not in the founding act. We believe that it can only be solved by a founding act. If this is the result of good practice or experience of business practice, it can only be solved by a founding act. This law, as we have heard from you and other representatives of the government, improves corporate governance. I think he needs to be clear. Either money can come back, or what it's cost, or it can't come back. If it can already return, then it must be clearly and categorically written in this law, that the company is obliged to pay back the money and it is required to provide for it by a founding act and that the company is obliged to assess it adequately in the founding act, in order not to question the underlying capital, i.e. in order not to be questioned by the creditors. If we wrote the law to write it, then, as the people in southern Serbia say, it's a lush thing. Minister, this is said to be in line with good business practice. In the light of this law, you wrote that this law is being adopted because, in the meantime, the EU directive has changed, or the directives have been amended in line with the business practice of EU market economies, so we are also changing the Business Society Act. Otherwise, this analysis of corporate governance in Serbia, which you have called upon in this law, has suggested to you at the very least that you amend this law, but if you have already decided to change it, then you have to be clear, categorical and certain in it. I mentioned earlier in the discussion that businesses and the sector in Serbia generate the biggest problem and that all the problems in the country stem from our economy on our feet. If you really want to improve it, you have to improve it in an adequate way, different than it has been so far. We suggest you delete this because this is how it's written excess. It is not only in this article that there is this principle of uncertainty – it can be and it does not have to be; in several other members we have tried in the same way to intervene because we ask you to influence through the law either your institution or other institutions or participants in a business life that things between you in a decadent and clear way solve. This is what is written “can be done, ”“ if foreseen, ” who is it binding? No one. Think about it, and we'll talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55107	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55108	Mr. Stevanović, I cannot accept this amendment. I really don't see what's controversial. In this way, we have prevented the delivery or waste of funds, i.e. money from the company, through this proposal. If you in your company with your shareholders or your partners think you should predict, you predict. If you figure that out later, you can also change it by a founding act. In any case, I don't see what's controversial here and why you should delete Article 16. The company may return to the members only if provided for by the founding act. Unless it's supposed to, he can't. I don't know why this article would be deleted. This is how you stop... In fact, our idea was to prevent you from withdrawing money from the company in the name of alleged founding costs or something else. We said, if you want to pull out, or you get a refund, go ahead, put in a founding act, and there's no problem. That's why I'm saying I can't accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55109	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55110	Minister, I think you're wrong because not only this member, but to dozens, I would say even hundreds, of six hundred members, 300 members do not belong to legislation. Why? Because you're going in, here's the real deal about this, you're going into the area of finance. This is a company law that regulates status issues. Finance, mode of business, extraction, etc., it is a matter of other legislation, i.e., in this case, it is regulated by internal company and financial regulation. Here it doesn't say that this is a matter that regulates the way companies operate and the conditions of business, so now you in the legal procedure are standardizing everything that the company can and can't do financially. The other regulations regulate it, so I don't accept it. When we considered the provisions of this law, the SRS and the members of this Parliament who worked on this matter were found by at least 300 members... half of these provisions that define the matter you have processed by the bill do not belong to the matter of the law. That's our position, and we can say exactly, from member to member, who doesn't belong here. We couldn't engage in such a profound amendment to the legal rules; we really looked at the essence and let the proponent stay. We didn't go deeper into eradicating legal regulations and suggestions, because, first of all, we can't do it in the Rules of Procedure, and on the other hand, I don't think it's rational. Generally, we estimate that the many proposals of members do not belong to legislation and should be expelled from this law. You've defined yourself for this. Unfortunately, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55111	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf the students of the Chemical Medical School from Vrsac who are visiting us and are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Attending are: Ionela Svera, Milica Veljković, Miljana Popov, Renata Ardeljan, Aleksandra Varijaški, Andrea Šavur, Ivana Dinov, Ivana Milenković, Milena Tešić, Srdjana Josimov, Sofia Draksin, Aleksandra Šordjan, Kristina Biberi, Monika Blanda, Sandra Maran, Stefan Sarajlin, Nemanja Olujić, Sladjana Brkljač, Katarina Matejaš, Lejla Sič, Soja Sic, Dragan Vlajkov, Vojislav Milunov, Marko Moromilin, Dragan Rajakov, Tijana Mihić, Kristijana Kalmar, Kristijan Joca, Kristijan Olajš, Marko Krunić, Ivan Ratković, Vanjavić, Tamara Mandić, Dijana Mandić, Marko Rajić, Jelan Rajić and Miražan Milić. They are accompanied by professors Vladislava Kerkez, Mariore Svera, Ljubinka Zagorac and Ankice Stajic. Welcome to your house, the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55112	The minister's not here, but I'd like to make an 18-by-part member like this, since we didn't ask for an amendment to the complete article 18, but... beginning with a change of title above the members of the 18th and the Institute of Prosecution of Legal Person, as this title reads, which, as well as the current Company Act, knows in Article 15, indeed, in some other form and under a different name, which is – abuse of legal subjectivity. I am sorry that the minister is not here to explain the title itself – "Breaching a legal personality", because, indeed, as hard as he is and as many as he is present in some other laws, it is only possible to find a similar name, let's say, in German law, that is not in the spirit of the Serbian language. That's why the SNS Group asked for a change in this title. According to us, the title should be: ‘abuse of a company’. If an analysis is made of an explanation that similar names can be found in Anglo-Saxon law, here, I will start from the environment – in the Slovenian Commercial Society Act, let's say, what we have further suggested in this amendment, the change in the parts of Article 18, only part of the people subject to responsibilities. This measure cannot apply only to the rope of the responsible persons in the event of the abuse of a company. Only members of society, not members of the board of directors, are responsible under the draft law. We believe it is necessary to foresee responsibility in the event of the abuse of a company and for members of the management of a company. In view of the authorities of the company (for example, the Supervisory Board, members of the Supervisory Board, Director, Executive Director), we believe that it is necessary to extend this responsibility from the mentioned Article 18 to those persons, regardless of their liability. Because of this definition, we have a thousand problems, let's say, in companies that have only one member under the founding act; we have thousands of abuses in the transition process, which takes ten years, in almost all privatisations. In view of these aspects, we have predicted a wider circle, the administrations of companies, to which this member refers. On the other hand, we added a new view that distinguishes the responsibility of a member of a society, or a member of a company’s management, who has abused a company and who has not personally done it but has benefited from it. It is also in the interest of trustees and all of them that a member of the company is responsible for the obligations of society up to the amount of benefit he has gained through abuse. Conscious faces must be protected from the person I mentioned in the previous part of the talk. The amendment complements the proposal by explicitly predicting, as a form of abuse, the use of the company's business name in order to create an identity delusion. This creates a direct basis for the application of this institute at all stages of speculation and abuse. That is why we added point 5) to which we foresee as a form of abuse of economic society deliberately borrowing and bankruptcy, and then the establishment of a new society. It is not rare in Serbian practice, unfortunately, to take various loans, to bring society into bankruptcy, liquidation, and to have one of the members of society open a new society right after that, that is, a company with a similar name, thereby extracting profits from the process of which there were words, meaning, from the previous borrowing process. That is why we added point 5) to stop these phenomena and how they are present in the framework of the functioning of companies on the Serbian economic scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55113	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55114	It may be unusual, but I would say something about the amendment itself, which we in the DSS Parliamentary Group would accept only if one more applicant or someone on behalf of the applicant would explain this item relating to the Director. So, really, how and under what conditions can the director break legal personality? What does he have to do, since he does not have those powers, nor does he have the very fact that the director has been transferred, in relation to the assets available to the company, where, for example, the owners of the partners? How does that work out? For all this other stuff you've given as an explanation for the amendment, I think it's very correct and, as far as we're concerned, in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55115	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The word doesn't want anyone. National MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the 21st Amendment together. Here you go, Mr. Palalyc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55116	Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry that there is no minister here to comment on why the amendment that my colleague Nenad Popovic and I have submitted has been rejected. The argument alone is quite contradictory if Article 20 and Article 21. Proposal for a company law. In our amendment, we have provided for the possibility that the company has more than one e-mail address for the reception of e-mails. The law allows companies to have that possibility. However, in the light of the rejection of the amendment, it is said that the bill provided for only the possibility that there is an address for the reception of e-mail and that there is no need for it to be registered in the register of economic operators and that it is mandatory to provide an address for the reception of mail. Gentlemen of the Ministry, paragraph 1 of Article 20, states: “Delivery is done at the address of the seat of the society. ” All right. Article 2 states: “Extremely, society can,” it argues, that it must have a special address for the reception of mail, “that it has a special address for the reception of mail registered in the register of economic operators... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” So, no e-mails, no mail at all. You've deceived us here. First, you claim that it is a mandatory address for mail reception, and the law says that it is not mandatory, and you refuse to give us an amendment that requires that such an address be registered in the register of companies with an explanation that this is a optional option and therefore does not need to be registered. I'd like to get an explanation for what you wanted by refusing the amendment like this. There is Mr. Minister, and I would like to explain this situation, because the very explanation absolutely ignores what we have predicted and somehow confuses everyone who wants to read why we have submitted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55117	The 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55118	In fact, it's a technical editorial of the text, so at least we're experiencing it from the Serbian Progressive Party. When it comes to a business name, we think we have markings relating to the companies that are in liquidation and there is no reason not to find a mark in that part for those companies that are in bankruptcy. The explanation is a little vague, as far as we're concerned. It is quite true that this problem is solved in the Bank's Law, but in this text of the law, we have a good part concerning the matter of bankruptcy and there are many improvements in this context, which is commendable, as regards SNS, when it comes to the abuse of bankruptcy proceedings. When it comes to trustees' rights, I think a serious step has been made in this law and there is no reason why what is prescribed in the bankruptcy law, and as far as this marking is concerned, does not also enter the company law. We view it as one quality rather than a flaw, to bring laws into line and to make the institutes and concepts that we have in law literally the same. That's how we make the laws clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55119	The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55120	In full support of what counterpart Antić said, we felt that, by analogy with mentioning the liquidation process, there was also a need to mention the bankruptcy procedure as, unfortunately, part of our daily economic environment. We believe this amendment may be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55121	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55122	Dear People's MPs, let me just say, I don't accept this amendment because if the company is in bankruptcy, let's just say, it's being treated by the bankruptcy law. In addition to the name of the company, it is prescribed to be placed "in bankruptcy", i.e. "in liquidation". For this reason, we do not accept the amendment because, here, you have an explanation, it is not complete, nor is it a good legislative practice to prescribe the same norms in different laws. Let me just answer and tell you why we don't accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55123	Thank you, Minister. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The word is Mr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55124	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues from the Ministry, in the general part of the debate on this law, I greatly praised the law and I expected that an amendment would go very easily, especially as it comes to harmonising the laws on economic societies with the Constitution and so far passed laws. A moment ago, I tried to explain the essence of the amendment with the minister. We may not have had enough time, but I'm going to do it all over again because it's part of Article 24 that's contrary to the Constitution. In fact, Article 24 says: “The company’s business name is in Serbian, Cyrillic or Latin. “ Article 10. The Serbian Constitution 1 says: "The Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter are in official use in the Republic of Serbia. “ The amendment does not accept, ” says the Ministry, “the amendment is not accepted because the use of a Cyrillic and Latin letter is uniformly accepted. “ This may be according to another constitution, not according to the current law. On the other hand, the next position of Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "The official use of other languages and letters is governed by law, based on the Constitution. “ Please listen to me, I will try again to quote the Constitution and the law, which are very explicit. Thus, the following attitude of the Constitution, Article 10, states: “The official use of other languages and letters is governed by law, on the basis of the Constitution. “ This is the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, where Article 4 states: “Organ, an organization and another entity, can name, firm or other public inscriptions, in addition to Cyrillic, and in Latin. “ The following attitude states: “In a company of companies, institutions, and other legal entities, that is, actions or other forms of performance, the works used as a sign can only be printed in a Latin letter. “ For those of you who know this matter better (I am a professor of economic law), it is the core of a business society. So the core of an economic society can be written in any letter, both Latin, Arabic and English, and the next position in the Law says; I did not ask for an amendment to that amendment. On the other hand, and finally, Article 10. The Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters states: “When, in accordance with the provisions of this Law, the text is also written in a Latin letter, the text in the Latin letter shall be written after the text in the Cyrillic letter below or on the right of it. “ I put it in the amendment I submitted. Please, you don't have to give me an answer right now, but make sure this part of the article has a serious problem. A moment ago, when I spoke with a colleague, we said, "That's what the previous Business Society Act said." Yes, but the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was passed in 2006, and the previous law in 2004. The fact that the Law is not in line with the Constitution in the meantime, that is another problem, but to pass a new law that would be contrary to the Constitution – that is the problem. On the other hand, all the other laws adopted after the Constitution have complied with this provision concerning the use of language and letter, and this has nothing to do with the possibility of electronic data piling, with the possibility of using minority languages, with the use of the Latin script. So it is not disputed that the use of Latin, absolutely, can be used in addition to the Cyrillic letter, which is officially used in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55125	The amendment was also submitted to Article 24 by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, together with the correction, the peoples of Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55126	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Honorable Mr. Ministers, fellow Members of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians have submitted an amendment and we have heard that the amendment has been rejected with an explanation that there has been a technical error, but since we have not received an answer on whether the amendment with the correction has been accepted, I expect the minister to cheer us up and say the amendment with the correction has been accepted. He has to say it now that he's here, but for the sake of the public, I'd like to explain a little bit more in detail what we've been looking for with this amendment. So we've been looking for changes in Article 24. The draft law, which refers to paragraph 3 and that the company may use a translation of a business name or a translation of a shortened business name in the language of a national minority or a foreign language, in which the name is not translated, and that, following this Article, Article 24. The draft law adds a new position 4 which reads as follows: “The translation of the business name referred to in Article 3 of this Article shall be registered in accordance with the Law on the Registration of Business Entities. “ As an explanation and support of this amendment, I would like to point out that the position of Article 1 is 79. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established that members of national communities or national minorities have the basic right to use their own languages and letters, as well as that of the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters has been regulated that in the areas of the Republic of Serbia where members of national minorities live in official use, together with the Serbian language, and languages and letters of members of national minorities and that official use of language and letters is also considered to be the use of language and letters in writing to companies. This amendment therefore proposes normal alignment with the Constitution and with the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, as well as with what has already been adopted in the Law on Associations and in the Law on Delegations and Foundations. We hope to hear a positive response from the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55127	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55128	Thank you. We accept, or accept this corrected amendment, so that I can cheer you up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55129	Thank you, Minister. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55130	A colleague, Jojic, suggested that Article 25(2) be deleted. Article 2 states: "The company can use the coat of arms, flag, emblem, mark or other symbol of the Republic of Serbia or foreign state, domestic territorial units and autonomous provinces, international organisations, with the consent of the competent authority of that country, domestic territorial units and autonomous provinces or international organisations. “ I think it is harmful to allow a business society to abuse national symbols. The coat of arms, flag and other state symbols are of particular social importance from the aspect of state interest and the national importance of the sign and it is harmful to allow economic operators to use these signs. On the other hand, I do not see from this context that it requires the consent of the Serbian state, only seeking the consent of a territorial unit, an autonomous province, etc. So state symbols can be used freely. In reply to Mr Jojic, you say: “The amendment is not accepted since it is necessary to prescribe in which cases the use of the characters and symbols in question is allowed to avoid different interpretations and potential abuses. “ We are just talking about potential abuses. It is about the most significant signs of a state that the company will abuse. It is not a place of state symbols on company acts and it is harmful to go with such a formulation. Unfortunately, you refused this amendment. I think you should accept it, Minister, think hard, just because of the abuses you're talking about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55131	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55132	Thank you. Mr. Buha, just to answer, we don't accept your amendment, I guess you understand why. We have here predicted that with a business name you can use coat of arms, flag, emblem, mark or other symbol of the Republic of Serbia or foreign state, etc., with the consent of the competent authority, precisely to avoid the situation that anyone will use symbols, emblems, however you will, coat of arms, flags etc. The Republic of Serbia. That's why we don't accept it. We felt it was more celibate that if you wanted to place the flag of Serbia, the name of Serbia, the coat of arms or so on, you would get consent. I don't know if it's ever been denied to anyone, but it's understood that you need to ask for consent, just so that you don't do as anyone wants. So it's not the idea of an additional administration, it's just to sort out this part and say, under these conditions, that kind of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55133	Thank you. Mr. Buha. I'm sorry, there's something wrong with the power. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55134	From the context of the legal norm proposed here, it does not result in the state of Serbia giving consent. The consent is given by the competent authority of that country (thinking of some other countries), domestic territorial units (the state is not a domestic territorial unit) or an autonomous province or an international organisation. The legal standard is so designed that it does not come from this context of the proposed words that the consent of the state is given to the possibility of using these symbols. On the other hand, you can't use another legal person's coat of arms without consent. It's an abuse of the symbols of that legal person. In a legal sense, it's incomplete. You have plenty of time, that context can be matched, you have our proposal, you have...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55135	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55136	Here, Mr. Minister, my finding from a moment ago is that in one part, in a way, writing this law really... In fact, I think that this law, written like this, will remain in quite a number of members unspoken, not because there may have been no will to resolve, and this raises the question of your finding that the law is written with a broad consensus, everyone is asked and so on... You cannot remain silent about the arguments in which individual MPs, regardless of where they come from, are calling for the Constitution. That's not how it works. There are things that are clear and in the Constitution, they are defined. I am specifically talking about Mr. Veselinović's amendment. He's really right. I don't know what you've been talking about, what you've been up to, but the arguments he's made really stand. The question arises, if the legislator is not bound by the Constitution, adopted by the general political consensus, what obliges you? What is your argument, legitimate enough and powerful enough, to accept certain amendments and to promote the law as we think, or slightly different from the representatives of the authorities? It's something unrelated to the amendment I'm going to talk about right now. See now amendment to Article 27. That article 27 absolutely promotes inefficientness, everything that weighs down on our economy. You belong to a political elite that advocates so-called The guillotine of the regulations. The way you did it, we all know it – and the white books, and the black books, and the writings, and so on. I don't mean personally, you were on that team... Article 27 states in point 2 that something cannot, and that cannot in point 2 can happen in point 3, so if what cannot happen in point 2 of Article 3, then the Advocate can react and correct what is contrary to the law. Your answer to my amendment is – differences are languages. They're not languages. How is it possible to be a registered company contrary to paragraph 1, and in point 2 you say that a business name that does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 1 of this Act cannot be registered in a register? The next position says - when it is registered like that then a republican public defender can react. The language differences are indeed true, but we ask that the republican public defender react. No, "can" because when you give him the opportunity to react, that doesn't mean that a republican public defender will react. It's a general problem, it's a nomotechnical problem with the congregation's majority and the government. All things – yes. This "can" damages you, it will cause you problems. You're the most responsible for economy and economy. It'll cause trouble for you, it won't cause trouble for me. Next, the D.A. will do it by emergency procedure. Then there goes the next position where it is said - the ruling requiring a change in the name of society is delivered to the register. If the infringement company does not make a change within 30 days of the jurisdiction of the verdict, it shall be liquidated. So now something that can't, if it happens, will be able to react to the defense attorney, so it'll be a trial, and then 30 days will be given a deadline for him to remove it, and if not, then we'll be in the process of liquidation. Why all this? You want an efficient, organised state – you have mechanisms at your disposal. Now we're going back to the courts. Do you really believe in the efficiency of courts? Nine hundred thousand unsolved items. It's because of these dishes that they're banging at our hips. In the analysis of corporate governance in Serbia, the basic stumbling block is legal practice, undeveloped legal practice, Mr. Minister, that's what you wrote. You expect efficiency here? She's really not going to be here. We're asking you here to predict that a public defender has to do something, to respond to the fact that the law has been broken. That's one thing. Second, what are these people gonna do in the register? We were here yesterday listening to what salaries these people receive by the agencies, I mean the Agency for Business Registers, two hundred and three hundred thousand are their salaries. Make them, Mr. Minister. You wrote here that it's not the matter to solve this. And what's matter? What are we serving here? Who's going to solve it? What are you gonna do in the register? To allow something that is contrary to public morality or does not meet the conditions to be registered, to get into business for that month and a half, to make money move, to make things complicated. It's just that we keep going on and on and on and on and on into the network of inequitability, inefficiencies, judicial galamitias, etc. This is not the opposite of the concept of law. This is a function of efficiency. Why don't you ask, you've got sublegals... It is not the Agency for Economic Registers established by the Association of Beekeepers or Hungarian Governments. You set up that agency, order them to bring in regulations, sublegal acts that will regulate this, and that someone at the Agency for Economic Registers will deal with these matters. It's just that things are completely clear, the question is whether or not you will. That your "can", "will", "will not," "being" here's how long it's brought us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55137	The 30th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 31st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55138	It is our opinion that Article 34 following Article 2 should be added to Article 3, which reads: “If employees in society exceed the powers set out in Article 1 of this Article, this cannot be pointed out according to a third lifesaver. ” Which is why we're thinking, which is why we're in Article 34, which, by the way, is why we're in charge of employees... The existence of such persons, which may come from the ranks of employees in companies or persons operating in companies, is otherwise mandatory under the Law on Liabilities, under Article 98 of that Act. Our position is, because of the practice in the functioning of business entities and societies of Serbia and all the various possible disputes that may arise under this article, that attitude 3 should be added because third parties do not have to have consequences for the powers, i.e. regarding the powers of companies and their borders of authority. I, as a third party in any contractual form, do not have to doubt, nor know what are the powers of the person who was given across from me by his company. This company should regulate and automatically, in view of the practice that arises in disputes, add Article 3, which would allow part of the litigation, obliges companies to take care of their employees, people who are proxies by employment, who give papers to make various deals on their behalf, contracts. Automatic, third-party security can enjoy legal certainty in the case of any irregular actions taken by employees, i.e. people who are authorised in front of companies, so that they can sign various contracts and other jobs on their behalf.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55139	Now I'm setting a break for an hour. You want to answer, Mr. Minister? You always have to sign up and then you get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55140	I'm sorry, I haven't arrived since we've been considering the amendment of the MP. It is understood that company rules provide for types of jobs, the size of jobs, what employees should do. In this way, essentially, if I understand it correctly, then society is responsible for everything they do in regular affairs, and in this way we would essentially limit, or we would have to prescribe who these are and what kind of jobs they are. For that reason, this is purely legal, and I must tell you that we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55141	The work continues at 15.00 hours. Be precise, and have a nice lunch. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin work in the afternoon. The 35th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55143	Thank you, Chairman. Article 35 deals with the concept of prosecution. For the sake of the public, since this issue is a little complicated and for the sake of monitoring the course of the session and what we have submitted, in order to clarify the situation, I must point out that "the procuring of the business power of the company", as provided for by this proposal of the law on companies, "is the authority of one or more natural persons to conclude, on behalf of him and his account, legal transactions and to take up other legal actions". We asked that the word "physical" be deleted and that, at the end of Article 1 35, the word "legal action" should be added to the word "related to the company's activity". The bill, as well as the existing, applicable law, provides that only a natural person can be issued by the prosecution. The reason for this is, according to the applicant's interpretation, the possibility of a representative of society being also a domestic company. Our opinion, i.e. the opinion of the Serbian Progressive Party, is that it should be possible for the prosecution to be issued to a legal person, while it is necessary to rule out the possibility (related to an amendment to Article 31 which we have submitted) that the legal representative should be a legal person, as this is due not only to the representation of a company but also to the management of companies. We consider it more useful to give the company the right to issue a complaint to a legal person, for example, a person engaged in consulting in a particular area that is within the area of interest in the business of that company than to allow the legal person to be a representative, given the fact, as set out in point 2 and in point 3. The bill, that the prosecution is unimpeached and the procurator cannot give authority to represent the other. We believe that this argument of the amendment is more concrete and that a better proposal, relating to Article 35 and Article 31, on representation, and on the concept of the prosecution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55144	National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55145	The New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 46, where we asked for the words "five years" to be changed in attitude 2 2) in the words "two years". We find it unwarranted to leave a deadline of even five years as a legal framework for putting roles into other forms of economic society. We believe that the deadline provided for in Article 46(2) of point 1) is fully appropriate for other forms of organisation of companies, and not only for companies, given that the point of entry is the normal functioning of companies, regardless of their legal form. It is noteworthy that Article 47(1) of the Law provides that the persons referred to in Article 46(1) acquire a share, i.e. by taking over the obligation to enter, so that a period of five years is indeed an inappropriate debt. The reasons for which this amendment has been rejected have said, inter alia, that the time limit prescribed in the existing text of this article is in line with the European directives which provide that these deadlines may be set in a range of up to five years. So, we just had that -- up to five years. Up to five years is some limit, but we felt that there was a two-year deadline in the current functioning, as is known in Serbia. But we accepted the rejection of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55146	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55147	Thank you. Just to give an explanation, except for the one that's here. If we cut the deadline from five to two years, we can come into a situation where large investments and large investment projects that have been implemented over a period of more than two years could not be realised. That is why we have put up to five years and adopted practice, if you want best practice, from the EU. That's the only reason the amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55148	The 46th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 48th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55149	The amendment to Article 48 was submitted with the aim of changing attitude 2 and changing a lot of these points. I'd just like to give a brief explanation. It is clear that the legislator's intention to make a distinction between public companies and all other forms of organization of companies, but we believe that this is not justified in this case. We believe that the obligation provided for in the bill as such only for public shareholders should be imposed as universal and other companies. Otherwise, there would be legal uncertainty and uncertainty regarding the ownership structure of such companies if they were left to discreetly determine whether any of the members would be excluded on this basis. In addition, in the position of the 5th of this same member of the law, it is said that the company is obliged to warn such a member that, in the event of failure to fulfil the obligation, it will be excluded from the company. There is no discretionary space that appears in attitude 7, which leads to contradiction. The proposed solution eliminates all these shortcomings, so we felt that this amendment could be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55150	The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Miss Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 51. The proposal for a company law refers to an estimate of the value of a non-financial role. The SRS Parliament Club proposed a shorter deadline for the assessment of the non-financial role by its amendment. In fact, the proposer stated in the law a period of one year, and we proposed by our amendment that the assessment could not be more than 180 days from the date of the entry of the non-money deposit. So our amendment is proposed twice as short. We consider it a year long. Assuming a stable, even perfect economic situation, that deadline of one year would not be a problem. However, it is something that can never be calculated 100%. We are all witnessing the current crisis in which economies and most powerful countries died; this is something that simply happens under the law of the market. Therefore, we believe that a 180-day period is more appropriate and realistic, so that the value of the assets that make up the non-money stake would not be devalued in the largest number of cases or, in some cases, overvalued. We also suggested adding a new position in Article 51, which would be precisely defined as the cost of an estimate of the value of a non-financial role borne by a person who invests in society. The amendment has been rejected, and in the light of why it is rejected, it is stated that it is rejected because it is the matter of the agreement of the members who will bear the costs of the assessment of the non-financial role, which in practice, as a rule, makes the person who makes the contribution. It is precisely our amendment that is proposed what is in practice and done, but the amendment has nevertheless been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55152	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55153	Thank you. With regard to your amendment and this reduction from 360 to 180 days you suggested, we can plead later, in this part. As far as the cost of the assessment is concerned, we don't accept that part for the simple reason that it's a matter of agreement who's going to deal with it. We have left freedom, whether it will be he who makes the stakes, existing, whatever. So that part of your amendment, adding item 5, we don't accept that, and as for the reduction from 360 to 180, here, we'll think about it while the debate is going on. I'll tell you what logic was. The logic was, if you were doing an assessment for the purpose of entering the roles or for any other purpose, we wanted to cut costs for companies and say, you did an estimate 190, 250 days ago, it doesn't matter, so we don't force companies to do an assessment. It takes time, but perhaps even more importantly, and certain financial costs. That's why we predicted 360 days. I agree there's a... Let's just say, the thing is, is whether it's better 180 or 360 days. Actually, I didn't want to accept this amendment, but we'll think about it a little bit more, so I'll tell you in the course of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55154	Thank you. The amendment submitted by National MP Susana Grubjesic was accepted by the government. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I'm sorry. Dragan Stevanovic, following the previous amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55155	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, you won't be able to accept the amendment in part, half-half. So, you have to know, the correction will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55156	The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. The word is Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55157	In the light of this amendment, I will start with your argument that you have rejected the amendment. You said: “The amendment is not accepted for legal or technical reasons, since it is incomplete because at the end of the sentence it is not precise on the provisions of the law. “ I will read only the amendment and our reasoning. In fact, we asked for Article 56 following Article 2 of Article 3 to be added: “The members of the company disagreed with the decision not to carry out the assessment of the value of the non-financial role set out in Article 1 of this Article, which possessed shares or actions representing at least 5% of the basic capital of the company on the day of the entry of the share, i.e. the issuing of shares through non-financial roles, have the right to require the company, or the competent court to assess the value of the non-financial role by applying the provisions of Article 55.” Our explanation says: “In practice, there have been countless examples of “freezing ” financial reports, and in a number of cases there would be no help in an audit. We therefore consider it logical to leave the possibility for members of a company holding 5% or more shares in capital to seek an estimate of the value of a non-financial role by an independent body in order to protect their ownership. “ Since it is a matter of ownership and what is guaranteed by the laws, I think it was appropriate to adopt this amendment, and this technical error of ours that occurred when the amendments were made could be removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55158	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55159	Thank you. Just so you know, we wanted to accept this amendment, and the legislation said we couldn't. If you make a correction at the end of this paragraph, then, after the word "Article 55" you insert "this law", we will accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55160	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55161	I just want to thank Mr. Secretary. It's a large number of our amendments, so I thank you for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55162	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 57th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 59th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted together to the 61st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 63rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The word has a folk MP, Mr Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to Mr. Dejan Mirovic's 64th, my colleague, is a trail of our amendment to the 63rd of this law, where we have asked that the final position of Article 63 be transferred to Article 64 because we thought this was inaccurate and vaguely written. We believe that our solution to the amendment is much more precise and clear, more consistent than what the law says. As a result, we considered it appropriate and very practical to transfer Article 5’s position to Article 64, to be an attitude 2, and in some ways to the whole, one to the other was bound. If the Government decided to accept this amendment to Article 64, it would be necessary to accept Article 63 as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55164	Thank you. The 65th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Mr. Zoran Antic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55165	Article 65 requires the obligation to notify the Board of Directors, the Management Board or the body responsible for the control of the work of a company of personal interest in the conclusion of a business. The position of the Serbian Progressive Party on this issue is that the termination of a legal job can also be the personal interest of a director or of someone else in the management and that even when a legal job ceases, if there is a personal interest, there must also be a obligation to report the business to the management of a company. In that sense, we intervened, and in that case we were able to have an understanding of the government because we recognize the need for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55166	The 66th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. The word is Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What is the objective of this amendment submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party? To propose a solution that does not condition the protection of persons who comply with the legal obligation to notify competent authorities of the act punishable by law. In the last position of Article 74 of the Law, it is said that the company is obliged to provide full protection to the persons who, acting securely in good faith, indicate to the competent authorities the existence of the information referred to in Article 73(3) of this Act. Who is it in society that can question whether someone has provided the information provided by law in good or bad faith? That's why we're asking for this part of the text to be thrown out. Indeed, if Article 74 connects to Article 73, that obligation is imposed on itself. How can society question whether it is good or bad faith? In any event, the company must protect someone who has, in accordance with Article 73, provided business information to the competent authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55168	Thank you. The 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (No). The 76th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Susana Grubjesic submitted to Article 81 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, congratulations. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 85th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55169	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honourable ministers, representatives of the government, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have submitted a dozen amendments to the proposal for a law on companies, and only one has been accepted. Here's a chance to accept this amendment. When it comes to this amendment, we asked for Article 89 to delete Article 6. We wanted to remove one injustice. Namely, managers and entrepreneurs cannot have the same responsibility, nor can they bear solidarity in the matter of property. How did the government respond to this amendment? The government said, i.e. you who personify the Government – Amendment to Article 89(6). Bills submitted by the MPs Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic, who, we said, were deleted... And you replied: “The amendment is not accepted for legal or technical reasons, since it is incomplete. “ Since we talked to lawyers, according to the difolt, if one position is deleted, the next point 7 is paragraph 6. With this amendment, we wanted, like I said, to remove one irregularity. It will happen, Mr. Minister, that no one in the company or company accepts the responsibility to be the manager, because they will be held accountable. I hope you will reconsider this amendment once more and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55170	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55171	I've already questioned it. We wanted to accept. The government's legislation said that what you're saying is understood and that by difolt, it's not difolt, which means that you have to change through the correction and say what it says in the explanation, means that attitudes 7, 8, 9, 10 becomes 6, 7, 8 and 9. That's all, and the amendment will be accepted. Thank you. One more thing: and calling for attitudes, so through correction... If you make a correction, he'll be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55172	The 89th Amendment was filed by Milorad Buh. The government has accepted this amendment. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55173	First of all, I should say thank you, and I say - thank you. Since I've done you a favor and corrected your legal form, you should say thank you. You'll probably tell me that. We were very nice, now, I have to criticise a little. Criticism refers to the category of entrepreneurs that is incorporated into the provisions of this law. If it is legally regulated by this law, the area of companies, that means legal persons. Entrepreneur is a physical face. Therefore, this category does not belong to this category of entrepreneurs. These are some objective reasons to get entrepreneurs out of the company regulations. If we define the area of legal form, companies, entrepreneurs by nature don't belong here. But there are fundamental reasons to cover this matter with a special law and to process entrepreneurs. The real reasons are that entrepreneurs are in a very unfavourable position, both economically and economically, and financially, and administratively, etc., because they are attached to everything that business societies have. Given that entrepreneurship, corporate associations are far smaller, they do not have everything that legal persons have, businesses. The provisions of this law guide them, they are imperative. Also, everything about registration, status, etc. It should be defined by a special law. I'm going to say just a few other reasons that you need to consider, and these are the problems facing entrepreneurship. Two hundred and a few thousand entrepreneurial stores a few years ago... Now it's been reduced, here, according to some of the data I read on websites, twenty thousand active entrepreneurs, with two, three or more employees, are currently in legal life, or really working, actively working. Less or less everyone else went to the black market, and kept their legal status, a current account through which they perform certain jobs in black, which is the biggest problem for society. That is why it is necessary by one special law, we lawyers often say lex specialis, define this category. It is very sensitive, and at the same time dynamic, easy and fast to establish, without any means whatsoever, with minimal hygiene, technical, spatial and other working conditions. On the other hand, he should be able to leave the market quickly, as society has no major consequences of shutting down the institution. At this point, we've ignored, as a society, entrepreneurs. We take care of ourselves, the state takes care of itself, how to settle the deficit, how to be liquid, and entrepreneurs are hardly thought of. We have to think, at the best of years, 350,000 -- 300,000 workers have been employed through enterprise stores and institutions. At this point, since we don't know how many are active, how many are really working, it's hard to judge; one hundred thousand people, maybe it's too many, works. We must dedicate our importance to the entrepreneurs. You have to get it out of this law, get it into some special law, and with a lot of credit rating stuff, you have to let these people work without any restrictions. The crisis is, the problems are in society, some people who have an initiative work, let them do it, etc. Get the inspections, which are not doing anything right now. It was easy to inspect, i.e. society conceived an inspection system based on thousands of small enterprises, thousands of medium, thousands of large. Now it's cramped, almost one-third of small and medium-sized businesses have disappeared from the market. But the inspection services are not reduced, on the contrary, they continue to rise, they continue to expand. Let us enable entrepreneurs, small people with interests that we will satisfy in different ways, to come in a simple, simple way to their shops and thus leave the payment traffic. A few more sentences about one thing that's very important, and that's financing the economy. At the Committee's session a few days ago, the ministers praised your activities, related to the provision of credit lines for small and medium-sized enterprises. It's a second credit agreement for small and medium-sized enterprises, and that's very good. The Serbian Radical Party's initiative is heading towards creating preconditions for all funds to be transferred to the Development Fund and through the Development Fund. At that session, you told me that those who approve of funds do not allow state institutions to transfer these funds, but will be business banks. Back to business banks. In your explanation, you said it was one of the most favourable loans, low interest, etc. However, we know that these are not low interest rates. The moment it comes into the bank, then there's, like, a normal agency business of the bank, which usually costs 1.5 or 2%. On the other hand, when banks enter the credit assessment process, it costs between 0.2% and 1.2%, 1.5% of some value. Furthermore, mortgage entry, etc. It costs. So from one credit line that the state gets three comas something comes up to six, seven and eight percent. Then it's no longer a cheap loan. We're just getting it cheap. The state gets it. And what's the state losing? The state is losing its sovereignty. She can't own what she gets. And what he gets is cheap concessions to banks, which he sells expensively. So we almost have the same situation as normal business relationships with banks. Minister, small and medium-sized enterprises must be taken care of. No one's taking care of them. They're left to banks, high interest rates, etc. The general debt of the 20 billion-euro economy is enormous. This economy, on glass feet, with these credit lines, with this kind of inequity, with this kind of responsibility, it's failing, in general bankruptcy. If the state allows these measures to work for business banks, then we neglect the economy until the end, and it will be massively bankrupt. You can't go back on these terms today, seven, eight, or ten percent, except for the monopolies, I'm not talking about them, they need to be driven out of the market. Furthermore, twelve and a half billion euros in debt to banks are impossible to repay without relaxing conditions, which must be given by the country's overwhelming state. The banks won't do it. When the government was reconstructed, one of its priority obligations was to enable exactly the kind of conditions that would help the economy to postpone for one period of time all of this that had reached this moment, which would come in a year or two years. This kind of lending is good, but we have a Development Fund and we have to do it through it. You must openly tell a foreign investor. We don't need that kind of credit if we're going to go through business banks. I have another suggestion. On the gray market, in the black economy – here, now economists favor the government say there is somewhere between 35 and 40% on the gray market – a huge part of the cake belonging to the state, the economy, society is being poured out. There are also legitimate reasons why people went into it because they lost their jobs, but let's make sure that some of that cake goes to the state. In fact, 35 or 40% of the gross social product is on the black market, that's 10 or 12 billion euros; so let's pump only 10% of it into normal financial flows and we'll benefit greatly, we'll cover the deficit. Let's pump up another 10%, and we'll settle down some of the government's liabilities this year towards foreign financials, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55174	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55175	On the first part of your presentation, where, if I understand correctly, you continue to advocate two demanding laws, one about companies and the other about entrepreneurs, from a legal point of view, it is better, but for practical reasons it is better to be in one law. That's why we decided, conditionally speaking, to bring these two laws together. As for what we discussed on the Committee on Industry, just so you know, the annex lines are the most favourable. They shall, at the request of the European Investment Bank, be placed through commercial banks, but also in business banks, there shall be a limit as much as they may impose, i.e. the cost of granting loans to account. That's not going to go over about 4.5% for our companies, about. As far as the Development Fund is concerned, I am experiencing the Development Fund as an institution that primarily needs to lend to small and medium-sized enterprises, government programmes, etc. I'll tell you that the Development Fund now has certain credit lines that it gives to entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. We try to get these funds in and out of the Fund's budget every year, and those funds are being paid back, but these funds and these loans are not much more favourable than these credit claims that go through business banks. Just to be clear, there is a problem there that they are still limited, on the one hand, and on the other hand I personally think it is good for our entrepreneurs, owners or managers of small and medium-sized enterprises to allow access to these credit lines, if necessary. I agree with you that the focus of this government and some of the next governments should certainly be on the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, including entrepreneurs, craftsmen, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55176	Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 91st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 91st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55177	As for Article 91, we believe that this attitude is not fully regulated because it obliges that within 30 days of the death of the entrepreneur, a continuation of action is reported. The Serbian Progressive Party believes that we cannot know who it is to report a continuation of action and that it is necessary to hold a desert debate or at least have the consent of other family members who have the right to inherit, so it was necessary for this member to be completed and specified. For that very reason, we have submitted this amendment. We fully understand the proposal's accompanying explanation with a member of the law, but we hope that by adopting this amendment, the Government has corrected all these failures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55178	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 94. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 96th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted together to the 100th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. He has the word Mr. Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55179	Mr. Chairman, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group has submitted an amendment to Article 100 to replace the word "request" in Article 2 with the words "right to claim". We believe that the solution is proposed by this amendment in a more precise and logical manner, and also legally, since, otherwise, nowhere in the proposed text of Article 1, the term ‘request’ is not mentioned in the proposed text of Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55180	Thank you. The 117th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, who was accepted by the government. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 119th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55181	In the light of the circumstances, this amendment refers to the death of a mate. The difference between the legislator and the Serbian Progressive Party is obvious. In the opinion of the promoter, heirs, when it comes to the company of a person, do not have the right to inherit unless it is regulated by a contract. For SNS, the right to inherit is something that is undeniable. We believe that through this supplement, through this attitude that we have proposed it was possible to regulate and rights of heirs, not leave them without any rights, unless it is settled in a contractual manner. It seems to us that there will be a lot of problems in practice, that a large number of partners will not even be aware that their deaths will not benefit their successors from all that they have invested in this society; that I am not talking about financial resources that, without a doubt, require any work to be done. In this sense, the government had to find a more adequate solution, not leave it to the verse, because people, who will most often not be informed of their rights, will not expect such an illogical legal conclusion, will put them in a very difficult situation. Therefore, we regret that there was no understanding. If you feel that this attitude of ours was not correct and adequate, that it should have been changed, you should have found solutions that, no matter what, the right to inherit would be guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55182	Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted the amendment to Article 121. The word is Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55183	Mr. Minister, New Serbia has submitted an amendment to Article 121 to add a new position after Article 2, which reads: "Extremely from the deadline set out in Article 2 of this article, a partner who wants to step out of society because of the reasons set out in Article 99 of this Law can submit written notice of exit at any time until the end of the financial year. “ An explanation – we believe it is necessary to make an exception when it comes to a situation where other partners do not allow a partner to transfer his share in the company to a third party and allow such a companion to step out of society in a legally prescribed manner, not waiting for this very long period of time. For example, imagine the situation that other partners were rejected in early July of the current year; if a solution proposed by the amendment is not accepted, it turns out that a friend who wants to step out of society would have to stay in it for another year and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55184	Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted the amendment to Article 122. Mr. Spasojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55185	Very short. In Article 122, point 1 is replaced by the following: I can see from the minister's reaction that he's willing to accept this amendment as well. Explanation – the law must be consistent. We do not see the fundamental difference between the legal situation referred to in Articles 119, paragraphs 1 and 2 and Article 122 of the Law. Therefore, we believe that even in the event of a partner leaving society, his share should be allocated in proportion to the remaining partners, not to the remaining partners, to equal parts. Just a little bit, Minister, mathematics, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55187	We accept the amendment. I apologize, we accept the amendment to Article 122, paragraph 1, where the words "is distributed to other partners of equal parts" are changed in the words "is distributed in proportion to the remaining partners".
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55188	On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The word is Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55189	Article 122 refers to the consequences of the company’s exit. Of course, it is undeniable that everyone has the right to step out of society if at some point they consider it his interest. This article defines, in fact, certain rights and obligations of mates. The SRS Parliament Club submitted the amendment to paragraph 3 relating to the case where the value of the company’s assets on the date of exit of the partner is insufficient to cover the company’s liabilities, and the partner who steps out of the company’s obligation to pay the company part of the uncovered amount in proportion to his participation in the company, within six months, if the contract does not specify the second period. We proposed by amendment that the deadline be three months, unless, of course, in advance of the contract it was defined differently. We believe that there is a need to regulate the obligations within three months, and a six-month period could even be seen as a delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55190	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 123rd amendment. There's no answer for word. The 124th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55191	It is good that the government has proposed Article 124 – the protection of trustees of mates, but also that there is no member of the bill, there is the possibility of creditors to do so by so-called. the paulian action is challenged by those actions of the debtors referred to in this Article. What do we propose by amendment? We propose to give the right to the trustee to require a company to restrict the payment of claims only to those claims that occurred prior to the entry into society. Why? Otherwise, there would be a mix between the identity of partners and society, as set out in the draft law. It is only natural that the debts incurred in the partner society are due to the company's company. What's the big deal here? It is important to bypass this truthfulness of data, i.e. the property of a partner in a company and to prevent all the consequences of this, because the responsibility of a partner society for, say, illegal actions or debt to creditors cannot be passed on to a partner society. What other possibility do we give with this amendment? We allow the trustee to be charged not only from the role of the partner who brings in the partner society, but also the possibility that the debt to the trustee against the partner will be charged on the basis of the gain of the partner in the partner society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55192	Thank you, Mr. Rogovic. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic together submitted the 124th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 131 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'm sorry. Please sign up properly. I must return to the amendment that has already passed. Here you go, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55193	Mr. Minister, to thank you for your extraordinary concentration, you and your co-workers who react with lightning; it's a pleasure, probably, to work with such associates. Surely we all want to make one system law like this about companies so we don't change it every four or five years, and that's certainly the interest of the entire state. In accordance with Article 124(2), a new position is added: ‘If a partner within 30 days of the date of receipt of the notice referred to in Article 2 of this Article does not provide the company with proof that he has settled his obligation to the trustee, the company may access the remuneration of the trustee in accordance with Article 1(1) of this Article. “ In Article 124, paragraph 3, which becomes point 4, the words ‘is allocated to other partners in equal parts’ are replaced by the words ‘as a proportion to the remaining partners’. It's something like what we had yesterday. In Article 124(4), point 5, the number ‘3’ is replaced by ‘4’. In Article 124, paragraph 6, point 7, the number ‘5’ is replaced by ‘6’. The explanation – due to the assumed close relationship between the partners in the partner society, we believe that the law should provide for a 30-day deadline in which society gives another chance to a partner to settle his obligation and then access to the payoff of creditors and automatic exclusion of mates. We also see no difference in attitude 3 of this article compared to the legal situation referred to in Articles 119, 1 and 2 and Article 122 of Article 1 of this Act, and therefore we propose this solution by amendment. We believe that one such amendment will certainly improve this law and you will probably accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55194	Thank you. The 131st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55195	This is a technical amendment, nothing at all. However, we believe that the solution we have proposed is clear and precise, clearer and more precise than what is in the law. He's in the government whether he accepts it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55196	Thank you. The government has accepted an amendment submitted to article 134 by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government accepted an amendment to Article 137, which was submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 137th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government submitted to the title above Articles 144 and 144 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 145 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 145a be added after article 145a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Spasojevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55197	On Article 162 paragraph 4, we have submitted an amendment to replace the number ‘180’ with the number ‘90’. Reason: We consider that from the aspect of the legal arrangement of this substance it is illogical to allow a limited liability company's founding act to set a longer deadline for the use of the right to intercept the purchase than 90 days, given that the bill sets the deadline for acceptance of the offer of 30 days. If a maximum period of 180 days is left, the share transferor could be in a position to lose the possibility to transfer the share to a third party, waiting for the other members of the company to decide whether to apply their right to an obstacle to purchase. This violates the principle of freedom of ownership.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55198	Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted the 167th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Mr. Spasojevic
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55199	We have submitted an amendment to replace Article 167(4) of the statement "the carrier of the share is authorised to transfer the share in accordance with the conditions laid down in that requirement" with the words "the company will be considered to have given consent as set out in paragraph 3 of this Article". Article 167 following Article 4 adds a new position which reads: ‘The members of the company who, when voting under Article 3 of this Article, have remained in the minority or who, in the case referred to in Article 4 of this Article, did not have the opportunity to declare the transferee’s request to have the right to prevent the purchase, in accordance with the provisions of Article 162 of this Act, by treating the requirement laid down in Article 2 of this Article in everything as an offer referred to in Article 162(1) of this Act. “ Explanation: this is the concept of Article 167 of the Law delegating the right to interfere with the purchase provided for in Article 161 of the Law. In fact, it is easy to imagine the situation for the transferor to apply to society, either approved by a simple majority of the members of society, or for some reason it is not declared at all. The proposed text indicates that the transferee may transfer the share to a third party and that certain members of the company who voted against the transfer or were not in a position not to have the right to make such statements as, for example, members of a company whose founding act does not provide for prior consent to such transfer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55200	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Mr. Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we have submitted an amendment to add a new position in Article 168 after Article 2 of the Law: "The members of the society who, when making the decision referred to in Article 1 of this article, were against the determination of a third party as a buyer of the stake have the right to intercept the purchase, in accordance with the provisions of Article 167 of Article 5 of this Law. “In Article 168(3), point 4, the words ‘15 days from the date on which the carrier is informed of that decision of the company’ shall be replaced by the words ‘15 days from the date on which the time limit for the use of the right to interfere with the purchase by the members of the company referred to in Article 3.’. Reason: This amendment fully follows the idea of protecting the right to prevent the purchase of all members of the company, highlighted in the amendment to Article 167 of this Act. Therefore, this amendment is and is envisaged so that the reorganised Article 168 represents a natural legal continent with a corrected Article 167 and the justification for adoption is the same as in the amendment to Article 167.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55202	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Mr. Savior, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55203	We have submitted an amendment to amend Article 169 paragraph 3 and reads: “If the court adopts a ruling replacing the consent of a society, the members of the company shall have the right to prevent the purchase of shares in accordance with the provisions of Article 162(4) of Article 167(5) and Article 168(3) of this Act. If the members of the company do not exercise that right within 30 days of the date of the judgment, the company shall have the right to determine the buyer's share accordingly to apply the provisions of Article 168 of this Act.’; Explanation: and this amendment follows consistently the idea of protecting the right to prevent the purchase of all members of society highlighted in the amendments to Article 167. Therefore, this amendment is also designed to constitute a natural legal continent with a corrected Article 169. 167 and 168, and the general justification for the adoption of this amendment is the same as for amendments to Articles 167 and 168. In addition, the draft law in Article 171, which concerns the forced sale of stakes in the executive procedure, protects the right to an obstacle to the purchase and the right of a company to determine the buyer's share.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55204	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Mr. Savior, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55205	Short. On Article 172, we have submitted an amendment to delete the point of "membership rights in society" and add the words "at the latest until the date of registration of the successor of the deceased member of society as a member of the company in accordance with the Registration Act". Reason: We believe that this article should define the deadline until which the temporary guardian of the estate can exercise membership rights in society on behalf of and on behalf of the successors, rather than assume it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55206	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic put together the amendment to Article 172. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 173 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Zoran Antic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55207	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 173 - a forced ransom of shares - and one position that is completely unclear, a position that gives two deadlines. The first is that within six months, the founding act can come to a decision on a forced ransom, which we find extremely illogical; as long as the heir is not known, it is impossible to carry out a forced ransom. The second part is given a six-month period, which we cut to three months in order to make an emergency ransom as soon as possible, but from the moment the heir is known, it means, when we have a rightful solution to the inheritance. We believe that this is in line with some legal norms and that it is totally unacceptable this first part of this attitude, where the founding act allows members of society to decide to buy something from someone, and they don't know what they're buying from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55208	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted the 177th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Miroslav Markic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic put together the title above members 195 and the article 195. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55209	Madam President, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment that changes the title above article 195 and reads: "The exclusion of members due to non-payment or failure of roles". In Article 195, paragraph 1 is amended and reads: "According to the provisions of Article 48(7) of this Act, the company is obliged to take a decision to exclude a member of the company. “ Explanation – Amendment to Article 1 of this Article in a manner proposed by this amendment is absolutely necessary in order to preserve the consistency and logic of the law regarding the amendment to Article 48 of this Law. Therefore, the amendment to Article 48(7), which treats the consequences of the non-payment of the roles, excludes the discretionary law of the company and proposes the introduction of an obligation for society to exclude a member on this basis. In particular, the need for such a solution is highlighted for reasons of legal certainty and overcoming contradictions with the provision of Article 48. Article 5
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55210	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 196. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Palaly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55211	Thank you, Madam President. With this amendment, we wanted to warn the possibility of having insight into the documentation of a limited-responsibility society and persons who in some way do not have the right to do so. Although we have been given the answer, in the light of the rejection of the amendments, in fact, that such a thing is excessive and, as it is said here, to determine whether a person has the status of a member of society can conduct a simple insight into the register of economic operators on the Internet, it should nevertheless be assumed that these data may not be correct and that one such significant right and insight into the documentation defined in Article 240 should have a person who is still legitimate by coming into the rooms of society. You know, it's an important and sensitive right, to get information about financial operations, about a number of other vitals for society, and that someone, in particular the director of society, can give to anyone without pre-checking. In any case, it's in the interest of society that kind of restrictions. In addition to the question about this issue of insight into society documentation, I have repeatedly pointed out in the debate on this law, is why is there a difference between limited liability companies and shareholders in terms of documents that can be given to the insight? A member of a limited liability society and a shareholder in a stock company shall be treated unfairly. I will support this by quoting Article 240, which says that a member of society has the ability to gain insight into the founding act, a solution to register the establishment of a company, general acts, minutes of sessions, but above all documents proving property and other property rights, reports by the director and supervisory board of the company, if the management of the company is two-home, address records, etc. As regards the company, I therefore said that the rights of minority shareholders are reduced, Article 465 does not allow the shareholder to have insight into documents proving property and other property rights of the company, annual company business reports and consolidated annual reports and reports by the Board of Directors, i.e. reports by the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board, if the management of the company is two-home. Why is this right denied to shareholders? I would like to ask the minister, in what is the status difference between a member of a limited-responsibility society and a shareholder? Why is this documentation hidden from shareholders and conditioned by a series of other conditions? It's simple, we're afraid this kind of denial of this information will create additional tensions in stock companies. It is right to grant those rights to members of a limited liability society. They are more personalized, we can go from that assumption, is that there are fewer, but if we want to develop an action culture we have to enable every shareholder of this type of data. Be careful, the shareholders will say, "Yes, you are hiding something from us, how can we manage and make decisions?" The reasoning of the law states that this led to different abuses, that this has complicated etc. It's just that you have no reason to create such a division between companies and persons who... One shareholder is a shareholder, and he is some kind of owner of a company, you can't hide from him a financial report or a business report or what the Executive Board of Directors does. Why is he hiding it? Please give some explanation about this, otherwise it will further create problems and unnecessary tensions. You've already reduced your rights to minority shareholders by this law, and now you're going to add one such provision, when they know they have a different status than limited liability companies, you're going to cause problems in stock companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55212	The amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic to Article 246. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 247th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, it would be very comprehensive to think carefully about Article 247 and Article 331 for practical reasons. I think these amendments to New Serbia should be accepted, not because in this mass of amendments, which is still accepted, but because they really mean a lot to the law that we are making. In Article 247(1), the words ‘ordinary majority’ are replaced by ‘two-thirds majority’. Recital: the statute of the company of a shareholder is not often referred to without reason as the constitution of the company in order to highlight its absolute hierarchical jurisdiction in relation to all other acts of the company, which must be in agreement with it. Given the importance of this legal act, it is logical to withdraw the parallel with the conditions for the adoption or amendment of the right constitution in parliament and to provide for a two-thirds majority here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55214	The Government has submitted to Article 247 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 251 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Grubjesic. The government has accepted this amendment. The 254th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. The government has accepted this amendment. Mr. Djuric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55215	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to express my satisfaction with the government's acceptance of this amendment to Article 254 submitted by Mr. Nenad Popovic and I, where we have suggested that Article 3 be deleted. In this regard, Article 254 defines preferential actions with the right to buy-out by the company and Article 3 provides for a legal solution to buy-in by the company at market value. We have proposed by our amendment that society can freely form the price of action, which at a given moment, that is, at a time of purchase can be greater or less than the market value. That amendment has been accepted. I think the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted more quality amendments and later in the debate we will try to convince you to accept some more amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55216	Mr. Pejcic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55217	I'd just like to ask the minister that the girls who run the stenogram would accept our amendment to Article 89. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55218	Mr. Kiriq, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55219	Thank you, President. As for the amendment, we accept through correction. For the record, I will read: Article 89, paragraph 6, deletes. The existing positions 7, 8, 9 and 10 become points 6, 7, 8 and 9. In the new position, the 9th number ‘9’ is replaced by ‘8’.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55220	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The 272th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 275th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. The government has accepted this amendment. On Article 299, the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 311 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 322 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 331 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Savior, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55221	We have submitted an amendment in Article 331(5) to change the number ‘10,000’ by the number ‘1,000’. Reason: We feel it is entirely justified to correct the line provided for by the draft law. In the days immediately before the meeting of the Assembly of the Public Stock Society, management bodies have, as a rule, their hands full. Let us imagine for a moment a hypothetical situation that the board of directors, i.e. the Executive Board, should send within 10 days, in one way or another, 9.999 lists of shareholders with the right to participate in the assembly session. The exemption from this obligation should therefore be brought down to a reasonable extent in Article 331(5).
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55222	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic to Article 334. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 335 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55223	Thank you. About the amendment to Article 335 - we accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55224	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 360 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 393 and Article 393, the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 451 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 458 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 456th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Mico Rogovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55225	Thank you, Madam President. Article 456, the title above the article is ‘Proposal for the implementation of a specific or extraordinary audit’. The SNS parliamentary group requested that the position 1 which reads: "A proposal to carry out a specific or extraordinary audit may be submitted by shareholders who possess or represent at least 10% of the voting rights" of the percentage "10" to replace the percentage "5". The decision of the bill, under which the proposal can be submitted by shareholders representing at least 10% of the vote's right to vote, is a high threshold for submitting the proposal. In the event of a major dispersion of action, it is almost impossible to organise shareholders to this end who can collect 10% of the actions to submit a proposal for a specific or extraordinary audit. This is not only in terms of submitting these proposals, it is really in practice, especially in our situation, very difficult to get to this 10% threshold. If, Mr. Minister, in other provisions of this bill, you are calling for 5% of the vote-right action, let's say, these solutions to various lawsuits against companies, in the event of the cancellation of the conditions resulting from the violation of the provisions on the availability of large value assets, it would be logical for this percentage to be that much in the proposal for a specific and extraordinary revision. I would like to point out once again that in practice, because of the difficult organisation and call of shareholders and because of the great dispersion of votes, the quorum for making an emergency or special audit proposal is very difficult to achieve, so that practically this high percentage makes it impossible for the part of the shareholders to make this proposal for the implementation of the procedure, i.e. to launch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55226	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55227	Thank you. Regarding the amendment submitted by Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic, it is the amendments. For the record, in Article 56 following Article 2, point 3 is added, which reads as follows: ‘Members of a company which disagree with the decision not to carry out an assessment of the value of the non-financial role set out in Article 1 of this Article, who possessed shares or actions representing at least 5% of the basic capital of a company on the day of the entry of shares, i.e. the issuing of shares through non-financial roles, shall have the right to require the company, i.e. the competent court, to assess the value of the non-financial role, as appropriate to the application of the provisions of Article 55 of this Act’. We accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55228	Thank you. I give my word to Vice President Gordani Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55229	Thank you. I'm using Parliament time for two reasons. The first is to thank Minister Nebojsa Ciric for accepting amendments that specify the holding of assembly sessions, which enables better application when the institute is in the context of a business society, and in particular the amendment accepted by the government on the founding role, which is not 50,000, but is a hundred dinars. I was pleased to see every moment about the exchange of arguments between the representatives of the executive government and us MPs who we have seen that we can make better decisions together in the law. Knowing how serious the law is before us and that one of the most important in this area is, I must express my satisfaction with the fact that so dedicated and worthy representatives of the executive government are working with all MPs, sharing a vision with all of us in the National Assembly and with you from the Government. Why are we, in fact, working on amendments and additions to this law and passing laws? So to enable Serbia's competitiveness, to allow the economy to breathe easier and to prove that together, whether we are the ruling majority or opposition, we have a very clear picture in front of us that the most important thing in our country is to enable together those who produce it in the best possible way. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55230	Thank you. The 474th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 475 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Grubjesic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 476 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Grubjesic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Djuric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55231	Dear Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 483 where we have proposed to add a new position 2 which reads: "On the day of registration of the status change in the register of business entities, the company is becoming a legal follower of the company of the transferor in respect of all rights and obligations which are subject to the status change. “ In fact, even in the applicable Business Society Act, and in this proposal, this provision was not explicitly defined. In practice, this created a lot of problems because the co-negotiators of society and state authorities did not want to recognise legal traceability as a consequence of legal status. I think this amendment should be accepted. It is true that in some other members and in the views of this member there are some definitions, however, we think that our proposal more precisely and better defines this area, so I urge you to reconsider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55232	The government submitted to Article 497 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 498 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 515 and 515 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55233	Thank you, Madam President. The members of the draft law from 515 to 521 refer to the forced purchase of actions. The SRS Parliament Club has proposed that all these members be deleted. During the debate, I read in principle Article 58. The Constitution, which guarantees the peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the law. The largest number of citizens, in fact, acquired shares in the privatisation of the companies in which they worked. And if someone became the owner of something, it's his property. We have now received an explanation that "the Institute of Forced Sales shares is widely accepted and present in all European legislation and is not discriminatory towards anyone. Its application, together with the Institute of Rights for Sale of Action, is a way of dealing economically with situations where there is too little percentage of capital owned by small shareholders in order to justify the cost of exposure to the existence of a company in the right sense. “ The Constitutional Court then stated that this was the case. The Serbian Radical Party disagrees with this reasoning. We will always advocate that the right to protect our property is impeccable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55234	The 515th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Savior, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55235	So the New Serbia Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 515(1). Proposal for a company law: "A shareholder who has actions representing at least 95% of the basic capital of the company and who has at least 95% of the votes of all shareholders who possess ordinary actions (repurchaser) can decide on the forced purchase of all shares of the remaining shareholders of the company at the price, which is determined by the appropriate application of the provisions of this law on the payment of incompatible shareholders. “ Article 515 of Article 1 adds Article 2 which reads: “The purchaser’s decision under Article 1 shall, through the competent authorities of the company, deliver to all the remaining shareholders the registered address of the shareholders. “ In Article 515(4), point 5 ‘3’ is replaced by ‘4’. The explanation of the amendments: it is entirely illogical that the Society's assembly is involved in the legal relationship between the buyer of actions and the remaining shareholders. The idea of precision and simplification of the procedure of forced purchase of actions or the right to sell actions on the other hand is certainly better achieved in the way envisaged by this amendment. Therefore, the buyer, as in the applicable law, makes a decision to pay the remaining shareholders, without the need to convene the assembly and make additional costs to society itself, and indirectly to the buyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55236	The government has submitted to Article 515 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 516 and Article 516, MP Tomislav Ljubenović submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, amendment to Article 516. The proposal for a law on companies is one in a series of amendments to the eighth part, which refers to the forced purchase of actions and the right to sell shares. Since the position of the SRS is that property rights must be respected and this right is violated by force, we do not believe that such provisions should be incorporated into the law. That's why we suggested erasing members of this matter. Article 516 refers specifically to the determination and payment of the price of the shares subject to an emergency ransom. We've proposed an amendment to erase it. We believe that everything guaranteed by the Constitution must be respected and such provisions must not be introduced into any law. These provisions are written according to the needs of individuals whose hands have reached large capital, and most often for those who bought enterprises in the privatisation process. As this process has been carried out, it is well known to everyone. Companies are bought at prices that are far below real, and certain prices are ridiculous. We all remember at what prices sugar and cement stores were sold, and we in Leskovec know very well that the new businesses are being defused and sold for nothing. Workers have lost their jobs, some have received social programmes, most of their charity, many have become owners of the shares of the companies sold. These provisions of the law are written in both the previous law and this... (President: I just wanted to remind you that you are talking about your amendment. You mention cements and sugars, if I've heard correctly. I can't get in touch, so I'm asking you to help us understand the amendment. You understand me well. Hear it all the way. These provisions of the law are written in the previous law and in this one precisely because of those who became owners of privatised enterprises, to get the possibility that when they acquire 95% of the shares they buy by force and other actions from those who do not want to sell them. The Serbian Radical Party will always advocate that everyone has the right to dispose of his property as he believes best for him. That is the reason for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55238	The title above Article 517 and Article 517 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicević together submitted the title above the 517th and 517th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Savior, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55239	We'll use this amendment again, then we won't report back on our amendments. We find the amendment extremely important. The title above Article 517 is amended and reads as follows: ‘Notification of the decision on the forced purchase of actions’. In Article 517(1), paragraph 1 is amended as follows: ‘The Board of Directors, or the Supervisory Board, if the management of a company is two-home, shall, in addition to the text of the decision on the forced purchase of shares, provide all other shareholders with information on how to determine the price of the actions subject to an emergency ransom pursuant to Article 475 of this Act. “ Article 517 of paragraph 2 also states: “The notice referred to in Article 1 of this Article must also contain a reference to the right of shareholders whose actions are subject to an emergency ransom on payment of the price determined in accordance with Article 516 of this Act, as well as the right to require the competent court to examine the appropriateness of the price established in accordance with Article 519 of this Law. “ Reason: This amendment is coherent with the amendment to Article 515 and absolutely necessary in order to make a legal logical continent and respect the basic idea of the amendment promoter, which is to eliminate the unnecessary involvement of the society's assembly in the legal relationship between the buyer and the remaining shareholders. Therefore, the obligation to submit strong financial reports is eliminated, but only a note of the right to review the established price is necessary. Only society here should be a service, in order to establish quick and adequate communication on the relation of the buyer – the remaining shareholders, such as this, in the opposite direction, when the individual shareholder requires the purchase of his actions from the control shareholder by addressing the company rather than the buyer directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55240	Thank you. The 518th and 518th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 518th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Article 519 and Article 519 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the 520th and the 520th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 520th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 521 and Article 521 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55241	As with my colleagues in the SRS, I have also made an amendment and asked for a correction, in this case, to delete this member, given that any forced sale is unacceptable from the point of view of the Serbian Radical Party. Everything that's forced, everything that's forced is unacceptable, no matter what percentages the action is, or certain rights. The Constitutional Court has one verdict, which doesn't even have the character of this verdict, it's a pity I didn't take the opportunity to make it and interpret it, but it's obvious that in situations where it's a forced sale of shares it's a matter of discrimination against one found in a minority capital area, and it has to be discriminated against. Regardless of what practice it is in certain European countries, I think this should change, both meaningfully and essentially. Why would it bother the majority of shareholders to have five shares of small or certain other rights? I think it's unacceptable to go to this standard, and it's a fundamental difference. What is important to stress is that in practice we have a number of abuses in the sale of shares and numerous abuses in privatisation, in which we have had different forms of criminal activities. The Ministry of Business, later the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and the Privatisation Agency have numerous examples of abuse in privatisation, both in buying and buying, etc. The best confirmation of all this was in 2010, when over 120 privatisation contracts were terminated. The economics ministry's task is to activate all state institutions and to re-capitalise the privatisation process, to carry out additional controls, especially during 2011, due to liquidity problems, non-execution of contractual obligations, non-execution of everything defined by privatisation contracts. So far, the practice of the Privatisation Agency has been to extend certain deadlines, to move what is the customer's obligation with some deadline for the next one, and so on and so on. I know it's gonna cause a chain reaction, but it's gotta be done that way, because we're doing abuses; we're doing first interventions, we're breaking contracts, and somewhere we're letting it go, we're letting it go, we're letting it go, we're letting it go, we're letting it go, we're letting it go, we're letting it go, we're letting it go. Minister, you have a very serious task. You have another year of authority. You're on the exam. Everything that's happened so far has been very bad. In these experiences, you must learn and adhere strictly to contractual obligations. Anything that doesn't comply with the contract has to be broken up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55242	Thank you. The 522nd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55243	As we are not for the forced sale of shares in the Serbian Radical Party, we are neither obliged by a control shareholder who has 95% of the shares to buy out the actions of each of the remaining shareholders of the society when this is sent to him by written request, as referred to in Article 522. It's a bill of law. We have proposed an amendment that a control shareholder who acquires actions representing at least 95% of the basic capital of society has a championship in the purchase of shares of each of the remaining shareholders of society. It's our position, I repeat, that anyone can freely dispose of their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55244	The government has submitted to Article 522 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 522nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55245	We have refused the initial amendment, however, in the course of the amendment's debate, which says this - in Article 522 after Article 8, a new position is added: "The request of shareholders whose actions have been sold to the control shareholder for the payment of the difference in attitudes of the 7th member of the statutes within three years of the date of the court's decision of the 7th of this article. “ We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55246	Thank you. The 523rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55247	President, I didn't sign up, but when you gave me your word, I'm just going to say that this amendment is actually a logical trace of all the amendments we've submitted, and they refer to a forced ransom action and the right to sell. Since everyone else isn't accepted, neither is he. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55248	Thank you. The 546th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 573 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 577 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government has accepted this amendment. The 581st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Mr. Antic wants to explain this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55249	I would only briefly state the position of the Serbian Progressive Party on this and the next two members, which are members of 582 and 583. As far as the Serbian Progressive Party is concerned, this issue is something to deal with criminal legislation. It seems to us that the writer of this law, the law of business societies, has gotten himself into something that he doesn't know best, and that should have been left to, in any case, the Ministry of Justice. In that case, the works entered into these three members would be much clearer, in line with existing criminal legislation. I think that some of the problems in practice, which will be very much because they will not know which of the laws should be applied, whether the Criminal Law or this law on companies, would be avoided. Generally, we should each do our job, not by making such provisions and involving one ministry in the field of the work of another ministry create confusion in our legislation. Thank you. I won't report for the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55250	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic to Article 581. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55251	I'll just take a minute. This article concerns situations where a statement of untrue content is made; it concerns legal representatives of a society, liquidating directors, authorised judicial experts, auditors or other similar persons. We have proposed this amendment a little harsher punishment. We've been given an explanation that the court needs to be put on trial. It is our view that for such acts the punishment should still be a little stricter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55252	Thank you. The 582nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 582, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55253	Article 582. The proposal for a company law refers to criminal provisions, in particular to persons who have special duties towards the company, which are listed in Article 61 of this proposal. Article 582 defines that unless that person reports to a company a legal business or a business in which he has a personal interest, or from that company does not obtain the authorisation of a legal transaction or of a business in the event of a personal interest, in order to conclude the contract or take an action in which he will suffer damage, he or she will be punished by a fine or a prison for up to one year. The SRS Parliament Club has proposed a stricter sentence with the amendment for the perpetrators of this act, more specifically, we have proposed a fine and prison sentence. We believe that anyone who purposely harms others must be severely punished. If harsher penalties were foreseen, perhaps our economy wouldn't be as destroyed as it is now. Our assumptions are that the proposings will be called upon by other laws that define penalties, but in no case is an excuse, because when someone can do whatever they want and can be punished for it by some fine, then it is clear why many in this country have not adhered to the law, but also how they have violated them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55254	Thank you. On Article 582, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 583rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic to Article 583. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 583 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 584th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 584 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 585 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 585th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 588th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 588. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 589th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 590th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 591th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 592th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 596th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 600 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susana Grubjesic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Agreement between the Members of the People's Republic of Slovenia: Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djerić, Mladen Grujic, Nenad Popović, Aleksandar Pejčić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Vladan Jeremic, Tomislav Ljubenović, Milorad Buh, Dragan Stevanović, Zoran Krasić, Tomislav Nikolic, Tomislav Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Knezarton, Milan Knežević, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bajić, Jelena Budimirović, Oto Kišmarton, Zoran Knežić, Zoranka Tsamović, Zoran Maštimović, Zoran Mašić, Zoran Mašić and Dražović. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55255	Thank you. I'll use group time. Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic have submitted an amendment to Article 11 which is amended and reads: "The financial restructuring can be carried out if at least two domestic or foreign banks as creditors and the Republic of Serbia and the public enterprises it has established are involved as debtors. In addition to the banks referred to in Article 1, all other creditors and debtors may participate in financial restructuring. “ I will try to explain what is written. So now it's no longer a secret at all that the state of Serbia thanks to this government, which is completely unserious and quite unknowingly doing its job, is practically the biggest debtor of the economy. This government unsavingly spends money from the budget, taxpayers' money, and when it spends it completely inadequately and unintendedly, it goes around the world and borrows and so does our great-grandsons into the loans they need to pay off. On the other hand, its obligations to economic operators are not able to pay and thus help to develop the economy, so that, practically, the financial difficulties involved by these economic operators are fully caused by this unhappiness and unserious relationship between the government. Also, the government thus promotes the indifference of the economy. That is why the amendment that we have submitted here is primarily a request from the Democratic Party of Serbia that the state must, the state is obliged to repay debts, or to pay what it owes to economic operators, and only then can it talk about creating an adequate business climate for the development and restructuring of companies. On the other hand, we also believe that large debtors should be actively involved in finding solutions for mentioned business entities and in financial restructuring of companies. This is what we tried to pass on to you as a message, so I hope, Mr. Minister, that it will come to you and that you will change the way you operate at least in your ministry and with those public enterprises and business entities you deal with, so that in doing so, Serbia will not be able to wake up a little bit of an economy, because without it, without the debt you're practically making, Serbia will not be able to wake up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55256	The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55257	And in the principle debate, we said that from the aspect of the SRS, this is a pest law, this is a law that gives priority to banks in relation to the state, compared to other creditors; this is a law that will allow banks to do whatever they want again. Also in the provision of this Article 11, it is said that even two banks will be involved in the restructuring process. So we'll recharge the bank's register, and the government's register will be empty. What does the current economic, economic and financial moment in which Serbia's economy works? Over 80,000 economic operators have been blocked by the state authority, i.e. the tax administration. Here you listed the data, concluded with June 2010 – the organisation's emergency collection unit had blocked the accounts of 73,092 entities, while the total amount of nominal claims exceeded 333 billion dinars, which was 3.5 billion euros, and the interest was another 222 billion dinars, i.e. 2.2 or 2.3 billion euros. The total nominal amount is divided into classes etc. where about 73% belongs to banks and 26% to others. A huge part of these blocked assets, or recalculated debt bases with the corresponding interest, belongs to the state. From all this, it's close to six billion euros, only 10% of it's a huge budget patching. Did you through this law allow the state to settle its claims? No, I don't. You'll make it possible for the banks to settle their claims. I'll tell you later on about another member how you modeled it. It's numerical. First, every modern state takes care of financial discipline, financial responsibility of payment-providing entities, acting within the legal system and keeping the tax obligations calm. Above tax obligations, everything else will come to order. But you put banks on pedestal. Why? I guess you're the only one who knows that. The banking lobby is so strong that it neglects state interests, which is perfectly normal, it's a private interest. Where's the state? Where's the state interest in that? Where's the interest of the people? He's gone. It's a devastating policy of the current government. If we said that the economy owes a total of 20 billion euros, then we see a steepdown in the economy and indiscipline that is present in the area. What seems to be the increased discipline? Nothing. So many blocked companies, which I responsibly claim have moved half of them to the gray market, continue to operate, continue to work, continue to pay salaries, etc., but there is no state, no taxes, no contributions. What's more important to emphasize? I'll read you the data on the debt of the economy: in 2001 it was at about eight billion German marks, or four billion euros; at the end of 2010 – twenty billion euros! With tight interest rates and a accounting system that corresponds to the banking system, including a tight interest that belongs to the state, it will be somewhere at 25-26 billion euros at the end of this year. The total value of the economy's assets is 15 billion euros. We don't have a business. Everything's trapped, everything's gone under some kind of security detail. Does this government think about it? He's not thinking. I would return to the provision of Article 11. He's the key to all this. The provision states: “The financial restructuring can be carried out if at least two domestic or foreign banks as creditors participate in it.” There's also attitude 2, which I'll interpret later. Please, how will you legally enable and also a financial, foreign bank to participate in the domestic market, which legal institute, to restructure here? Let's ignore these two banks, but how are you going to make it possible for a foreign bank? She can't work here. Our bank can't restructure some company in Germany. How? It can't be legal, it can't be financial, it can't be. Why do two banks, if we have tens and hundreds of thousands of business relationships, trust and debt, where on one side there is one debtor, and the creditors are both banks, and states, and funds and various others? We will rule out both the state and the trustee in the right sense, and we will trust the two banks to restructure. Why don't some trustee do it? Why are we shutting him down? Why are we putting him aside? Among other things, we have the Development Fund. Why don't you, on behalf of the state, where the interest of the state, the Development Fund is involved in the process? Why didn't we put him here and secure the funds and restructure him? It is voluntary. So the debtor has to accept that. Is that good? I think it's a previous member. I think it's six or seven. And the bank again. Two banks participating in restructuring again. What does that mean? Our proposal in the amendment was, I'll read it here, think well about it, it's a well-intentioned amendment: "The financial restructuring can be carried out if at least one legal person as a trustee participates in it. “ It’s wide - set. One trustee means one legal person in the area of economy and the Development Fund, and the state, some state institution, and the bank, and another legal entity that is in payment traffic and who has an interest in being involved in restructuring; on the other hand, there is a good will for the debtor to accept his participation in a confidential relationship. I don't know why you wrote it like this, I don't think it's standing, it's a dozen nebulous sentences that were brought here. I don't think you've got the point. The whole law doesn't make sense, and it's like it's such a waste. From the point of view of the SRS, pull it out, don't let it sink further into the collapse that we've driven the economy to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55258	The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic together submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55259	Dear President, I will use the time New Serbia has as a party, and very briefly. This number of amendments to the proposal for a law on companies and to the draft law on the contractual financial restructuring of companies submitted by New Serbia, which Mr. Ciric, the competent minister, accepted talks primarily on the effort and work, the studioism with which Nova Serbia came from the proposals of these laws. Also, I must say (I don't have to, but I want to say) that Minister Ciric, as a rare minister here, has appreciated the efforts and work of, above all, opposition MPs, in this case, New Serbia. From this I can conclude, I may be wrong, that he is one of the few ministers who seems to be the author of the law itself, and then it is not difficult for him to accept some amendments and admit, I will not say that he did not burn the crown from his head, accept some solutions that may (not perhaps, but certainly) be better. So, I would like to thank Mr Ciric for respecting the efforts of New Serbia's MPs, but also to ask him a question to think about. Mr Minister, on the day that you defend (I don't know why we all use the word "define"), you propose, explain very important laws, no MP from your party is present in the hall at the moment. Once again, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55260	Thank you. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55261	The essence of the whole law is contained in Article 15 of this bill. Article 15, I will only try to convince him because of the public, that the public knows, bears the title "Publishing Law", but according to its content it represents other categories: both mortgages, and publishing rights and other rights stemming from some other legal regulations. Not only will you allow banks, but also foreign banks, as you have said here, to implement the innovation of elements in land books, in catastrian books, but you will allow the disruption of relations that are defined by laws that define the matter of mortgages, stocks and some other laws, about ownership-legal relations and bonding relations, etc., which, by their character, represent the laws of the first order in relation to this Lex speciality, so to speak, a special law that defines financial restructuring. Through this disruption of relations and conditions, you will be led to the fact that on the basis of concluded financial restructuring contracts by some bank that will have an interest, including foreign banks, as you say here, will be listed here as mortgage holders, stockholders from non-participating businesses, based on very little money, little funds. As a rule, it will be liquidity funds to settle interested parties. The third will lose everything: and the opportunity to make the payment, will lose the mortgage through this financial restructuring contract, will lose the stock they had entered through certain books and certain security instruments. We'll let the banks take it again, kidnap it. Look how you guys work. This is a crime against the economy, because those who find themselves in that business are likely to have little use for corporate management. What about the state? You'll tear down a few dozen laws that define this matter. Imagine a provision that states: “The Immobility Katastre, or second register of a publishing right, is performing a change in the data of a registered mortgage, i.e. a hostage right on movable matters and rights, according to the amount of the restructured security claim, as well as other conditions of a restructured security claim. ” Just on the basis of one contract, everything that was until then falls into the water; here, we made a contract and under this law we change everything that was in history. You see how much damage you'll do with these things to the state, the real creditors who patiently waited for the debtor to get out of the crisis, to settle down. Will it be the interest of the banks to calm down all the creditors? He won't. They'll only find themselves, and they'll do it multiple times. The state is nowhere. There is no state interest in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-19-0.u55262	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the search of all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear People's MPs, we will continue our work on 23 May 2011 at 10.00 p.m. on Monday, with discussion in particular on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. I would just like to inform you more about the time left for individual groups to discuss: ZES - 87 minutes, SRS - 30 minutes, United regions - 28 minutes, Forward Serbia - 15 minutes and 35 seconds, DSS - 11 minutes, SPS-JS - 17 minutes, LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, NS - ten minutes, Parliamentary minority group - seven minutes and PUPS - six minutes. Representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, shall have 15 minutes each. Thank you, Mr. Kiric, to you and your associates. Dear Members of the People, I thank you for your participation in the work.
