ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57885	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I must admit that I am in a dilemma with whom to ask the question, whether the Ministry of Justice, whether the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, whether the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Local Self-Government, will ask the entire government, because the situation is complicated and requires an urgent solution. We are witnessing that Serbs and non-Albanians have lived in KIM for a decade in very difficult, inhumane and non-civilising conditions. The fact is that the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing everything in its power to improve the situation on the ground and should say that without this help from Serbs, despite good self-organization, they would certainly not have survived in those areas. There really shouldn't be controversy about that. However, the government's commitment and pre-community, unfortunately, is not a guarantee that Serbian institutions will function, even in municipalities in northern Kosovo where Serbs have absolute authority. I have to inform both the government and the MPs that I found myself in a private business in the Serbian Supreme Court, which is now located in Zvecan, and I had something to see. So, the court is on the second floor of the stationery. Judges work under inhumane conditions, they don't even have a whole floor, they only work two offices. So the judges are standing, they have nowhere to sit, and that's something that's really inadmissible. The miracles never end. On that very floor there is a laundry room and a specialist doctor has an office, despite the fact that only 20 metres from there is a home of health. It's inconceivable that someone spends just one day working in a week usurping five offices. It looks like a plan for the judges not to be allowed to take the whole floor. You know, some of the authorities at the bar are very loud when they ask for the strengthening of Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, and when they are able to make their contribution, they enjoy a laundry court and a doctor's office. I remind you that the court building is located in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica, but since 1999 UNMIK has been in it, and now EULEX, so that the Ministry of Justice does not have its assets and cannot possibly bear part of the responsibility. We must not allow judges to take this trail of unfortunate circumstances as a message that their effect is not important in Kosovo and Metohija, that it is somehow logical to be in a cafe and do nothing, because in the office they have nowhere to sit or sit, and that anyone under the pretext of going to a doctor's appointment can knock on their door and endanger their safety. I note that the reformed judiciary has certainly produced results in Kosovo and Metohija. Ten years later, criminal cases are scheduled. Judges even work shifts. That is why it is necessary to encourage their work, and that is what we will do if we provide them with adequate working conditions. So, conditions that on the one hand won't compromise their profession, that they don't work by the laundry, and, most importantly, the conditions that will guarantee their safety. My question is this: Can the Government put pressure on local self-government and provide judges with adequate working conditions? Today, every serious NGO and every sports association has their own premises, and I don't think there's a need to speak specifically about the importance of the judiciary. Since I live in Kosovo and Metohija, I know the situation on the ground well, and I do not like to criticise without offering solutions at the same time. I suggest solutions. Last year, the building was completed for the Social Labour Centre, for reasons that are not objective. It's prolonging the move. I think the solution is that the workers of the Centre for Social Work get to the new building as soon as they can and the judges are given the old one. I've also had a conversation with the President of the High Court, and I can say that the judges will be very pleased with this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57886	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (Yes) There is a word from MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57887	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Before I ask the department's question, I have to say this: it is now three years from the formation of this government. There is no reason to mark this date in a special sense. It seems to me that there is a reason for the growing concern of Serbian citizens for material existence, for the territorial integrity of the Serbian state and for the mere survival in such a government. My question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry, Veterans, Hunting, Fishing, Water Management, Trade, Services and perhaps for some other activities – information has already appeared in the media that the catastrophic results of crop control in the AP Vojvodina have been observed. I must remind you that on 29 May 2009, the Serbian Parliament passed the Law on genetically modified organisms. Article 2 of that law clearly defines what genetically modified organisms are, how they are treated and whose responsibilities they are. My question is: Do the Republic of Serbia have surfaces poisoned by genetically modified organisms? How many surfaces are there and where are they? What kind of seed has genetically modified arrived in Serbia? Who's the importer? Who's a genetically modified seed salesman? Who's the buyer of genetically modified seeds? What quantities of genetically modified seed have been imported into Serbia and to whom have they been distributed? If there's any damage, how will it be remedied? From what sources will the damage be compensated? So the question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry, Veterans, Hunting and Fishing, Water Management, Trade, Services and some more.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57888	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57889	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia watching this transfer, on behalf of the NS MPs' club, I request information and information from Mr Oliver Dulic, Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and so on. What's this about? These days, both in electronic and in print media, we have received, in my opinion, one incomplete piece of information about an extremely awkward and inappropriate situation. It's about moving the cemetery to the Lazarec municipality, more specifically in the village of Vreoci on collobarian spears. So it's clear to all of us that Serbia must have enough power generation, that some deadlines may be too late, that someone should have done it before, but those scenes that we saw on TV, where the cemetery is practically occupied by 500 of some gendarmes, specialists, where some curtains and fabrics are allegedly placed, that they don't really see what they're doing there, are really causing an aversion, one really unpleasant and painful impression by the viewer, and I can imagine people in Vreoc, whose ancestors are buried in that cemetery. I don't want to be maligned, I understand some inevitability to have that village and that cemetery moved, but it has to be done, according to me, and that's why I react both as a man and as a MP, in agreement with the citizens who live here and whose ancestors are buried in that cemetery. In one video, on one television, we saw, among other things, that there were also the graves of the Colombian warriors, the Colombian heroes of ours and the martyrs who died for the freedom and glory of Serbia that we are so proud of. We even get information that several hundred citizens will even seek asylum in foreign countries. I repeat, they're not Roma, we won't be able to bring it down to one national minority this time, that they're fake asylum seekers. Therefore, I ask Minister Oliver Dulic, not within 15 days as the Rules of Procedure says, but immediately for Tuesday to provide information, both for me and for my public, for all the MPs and for all the citizens of Serbia, on what it is. I would like to reiterate that no one is against the production of coal, because, fortunately or unfortunately, these people are hundreds of millions of tonnes of coal reserves, of which Serbia will have electricity, since Serbia has no other energy source and power generation energy for now. That's not controversial. But in my opinion, it's like a man's questionable way of doing it, especially when it comes to a cemetery. Some who may not like us say that Serbs have a cult of the dead. I wouldn't say it that way. I would say that Serbs, except for many of the wonderful qualities they have, have the same feature that their fathers, grandfathers, ancestors never forget and that once, twice or not, I don't know how many times each year at least go out to the cemetery to remember their ancestors. Now that we have a situation where someone is forced to move the cemetery, I ask every one of us here what to do if someone's father or grandfather were there and someone's doing it, as we've seen in the media, if it takes 500 gendarmes, then it's a force, then those people didn't agree to do it that way. How would each of us react? If we weren't lying to each other, you'd react very hard. I would personally defend with the life of a tomb where my father and my grandfather lie. Therefore, I ask Minister Dulic for an answer. This isn't in 15 days, this isn't a formality. That's very sensitive. Not accusing anyone, not him, just to provide real information about what it's really about in the village of Vreoci on the collages in the Lazarec municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57890	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57891	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the question I would like to ask is concerning Car Constantine the Great Airport in Nis, which is why this airport does not work at full capacity? The issue is complex and therefore I want to refer it to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Mr Mr Mrkonjic and Minister Verica Kalanovic. Why is the question complex? I'm going to do a dyspression now. We remember that from Serbia from another place that is not called Belgrade can fly when the season of vacations comes. When the season of vacations passes, then the airport remains left to itself again, or to people who are trying to keep it alive. First of all, a question for the Minister of Infrastructure, specifically for those responsible by the Flight Control Agency: why are no papers needed to set up additional devices to enable safe landing? To remind me, experts at the Transport Faculty in Belgrade have produced a study detailing the possibility that a safe takeoff and landing from the airport can take place in all weather conditions, setting up certain additional equipment. For a long time, the Fleet Control Agency has been deafening this study. Is there anything behind this that we Nishli can't know? I am referring to this question that I asked, a question for Minister Kalanovic -- what about the NIP funds belonging to the Low Airport under an agreement signed by the minister concerned with the Mayor of Nis? Is there a policy on the low-airs airport called G17 plus, which is called the double arches? We are for decentralisation when it comes to buying censorship, and we are not for decentralisation when some personal, individual interests do not respond. To remind us, it was even the initiative of the people of G 17 plus, that the business of the Low Airport is being controlled from Belgrade, that everything about flying from Serbia is being centralized in Belgrade, is this part of a general action of decentralisation and regionalisation that should be a picture of G 17 plus policy? This, I would say, is a burning issue, especially when again on a long stick Serbian citizens are offered something called the Royal Airport. Why on a long stick? Because it looks nice as a promise, and it will be realised in the far future, and there is an airport from which Montenegrin firms and how successfully fly and who can wait for baggage for all destinations in the world, how is it appropriate for Montenegrins to fly from the low airport, JAT is not responding, and who in Belgrade does it bother that the Low Airport is working at full capacity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57892	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want to use their right under Article 286? National MP Stojanka Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57893	Thank you. I had no intention of asking this question today. I planned to set it up on the day the government of the Republic of Serbia met on the last Thursday of every month. I was expecting a piece of paper that I was supposed to get, but my colleague Smiljana Milosavljevic, who comes from the same place, or from Zvečana with KIM, encouraged me to explain some things and at the same time ask a question that I am interested in. First of all, let me explain that the basic court that works in Zvečan is located in the House of Health building. The Home of Health has made concessions and services to the Court of First Instance and has given them as much use as two offices are able and so much about the conditions of the Court of First Instance on the floor and how much it was possible for the institutions to make available to them. Their working conditions are to be decided by the Justice Ministry, because it is in charge of its institutions throughout Serbia, including in the KIM area. While at the same time 50 people from the Gracanica court strike hunger because they were fired from work and because they have no job, we listen today that someone is looking for working conditions for two offices in Zvecan municipality. I'll tell you one thing – the basic court in Kosovo Mitrovica, in fact in Zvecan, does nothing or rather works selectively. Why do I say that? For the reason that I will ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia – when will the case of my attack on the house be prosecuted and why has it not been processed so far? I'll remind you, on 16 November 2007, my house was attacked, where five Molotov cocktails were thrown, burning down part of my house, garage, car and child. All perpetrators were also caught by UNMIK police, and the Serbian police also worked. It was all given to the investigative and judicial authorities for consideration and a procedure was initiated. The perpetrators were captured, confessed to a terrorist attack. Since they were underage, they were released to defend themselves for freedom. Unfortunately, since UNMIK's court, neither the Serbian reformed court has initiated proceedings until today. Of course I was interested in Mr. Bigovic's new reformed regional public prosecutor, to ask personally – why is my case sitting in a drawer, although many others are getting rid of it? So, selectively solving objects. I received an answer that my case began to resolve the UNMIK court and that the Serbian court was unable to interfere, which is absolutely not true, and I will prove it. I'm waiting for the paper, because I asked him to deliver it to me in writing, so that I could ask further questions to the authorities on the basis of that paper. This time I set up the Government of the Republic of Serbia – why are certain processes in Zvecan, Kosovo Mitrovica, being prosecuted selectively in court, and that some cases that may not be similar for political reasons to this day are not processed or may be waiting for these items to become obsolete? I'll remind you, the perpetrators are at large. My family is still unsecured today, living in fear and uncertainty about what might happen in the future. That's why I answered and the public should be informed on what conditions the court in Zvecan is working on and whether there should be better conditions, since my conclusion is that this organ there is literally not working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57894	National MP Smiljana Milisavljevic is registered in the electronic system. The time when a session is based on Article 286 is such that it is not allowed to exercise the right to breach the Rules of Procedure, nor the replica, as it is not in cases of asking questions on the topic or parliamentary issues of the last Thursday of the month, therefore reserved exclusively for asking questions. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want to ask a question or ask for an explanation on the basis of Article 286? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57895	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture in the last few days, I have received dozens of calls from Serbia's raspberries producer and I can tell you that it has been repeating itself for several years, when raspberries are harvested, both in Vojvodina and Serbia, in our wheat, in the northern part of Serbia's wheat, in the central part of the raspberries, and then those who want to use one known way with a small price to buy the raspberries, to pick up that large portion of the monetary income from the purchase of raspberries. Last year the price of raspberries moved 150-155 dinars, first class and people were satisfied with that price. However, this year the price of raspberries is twice as cheap and moves for the first class of 75 dinars, while the second class is 55 dinars. As far as I'm aware, raspberries producers have now taken and blocked the owners of refrigerators who dictate that price that is not really appropriate, knowing that there have been elemental disasters this year where raspberries are produced, knowing that these people live for that raspberries and for this product that will bring them some improvement in the life of that family or those families. Unfortunately, there are still tycoons and financial powers who dictate the prices of agricultural products, and right now I'm talking about the price of raspberries. I'm going to ask more questions and use these five minutes. I ask the question to the prime minister, the minister of agriculture, forestry, water industry and trade Dusan Petrovic – can more stand in the way of those who use labour, effort and sweat of agricultural producers, and now it is about the producers of raspberries, to at least value prices if nothing else than last year, not to pay half-prices and to pay instead of 150 dinars for one kilo of raspberries, is paid for the first class of 75 dinars? On today's second question for the minister and prime minister, I raised that question on the Committee on Agriculture, and I asked if it was possible that farmers or wheat producers still do not know the exact price of wheat and that the harvest is near its end? By the end of this week, I think the last cuts of wheat will fall, and the wheat is on the lager, and the price is present only in the heads of those tycoons and financial powers co-owners of the mill-processing industry. I'd like to ask, since the reports of July 1st have begun slowly for subsidies, by 14,000 per hectare, have they begun to be realised in order to obtain these subsidies and from what date did that start? The next question would also be addressed to the prime minister and minister of agriculture, forestry and water and trade -- when will the fourth tranche of agricultural pensions be paid? I would ask you to answer the questions I asked in record time, since once two months ago, I asked what would happen to the subsidies and I only got an answer for about a month and a half, and since the acute question is both the price of wheat and the price of raspberries, I ask the said minister and prime minister to answer me in record time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57896	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Radovic, Momo Colaković and Konstantin Arsenovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, has called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Energy, to attend: Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Svetlana Kuzmanovic, Head of the Finance Group. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to the principle search of the 6th item of the agenda – the proposal for an amending law and the addition of the law on additions to the social security requirements you have received from the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, a proportion of the number of MPs of each parliamentary group, and this: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia (G17 plus and ZZ) - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjin group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the parliamentary group PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group have the right to speak for just one to five minutes. I would ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit statements for the word, and with the order of the Members of Parliament, on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I also inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Milisav Petronijevic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group; MP Nikola Lazic, the DSS parliamentary group – Vojislav Kostunica and Parliament MP Milorad Buha, the SRS parliamentary group. If any other parliamentary group chooses an MP who will be an authorised representative, please provide us with information on this, so that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Oliver Dulic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57897	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which is on the agenda today, is a proposal that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support in the voting day. I want to take a brief look at the bill of law on the provisions that change and explain why we will support this law. The amendments made by this bill can mostly be divided into four parts. First, it is about changes that are purely legal-technical alignment with the laws on volunteering, on work, on culture, on health insurance. It is about the definition of volunteers, who is in charge of professional training and training, who is responsible for giving the status of independent artists, etc. So, it's just legal-technical alignments and they're going through a few other members of the law, and I wouldn't stick around. Second, what is characteristic of amending this law is that the harmonisation of the dinar amounts mentioned in the law, which are given in nominal terms, is harmonised instead of with the rise in prices to a small, with the annual consumer price index as already published by statistics as of 1 January 2011. This part can be significant as much as when we talk about the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, when they speak in the section on premiums for additional voluntary pension insurance and on contributions to a voluntary pension fund, where the nominal amount of the premium has been established, and then is later adjusted, therefore it is important that this change is implemented and we will support it. It also refers to one part of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which speaks of employers who have the right to free from contributions, and these are employers who employ unemployed workers, first category – over 50 years of age, then over 55 years of age, then trainees, then under 30 years of age and disabled. The law allowed these employers to be freed from contributions. In a situation where it is not implemented, the employer is obliged to repay the funds, but valorised by just no longer rising prices at little more than the growth of the consumer price index. There is also a characteristic that restricts the possibility of using these benefits of acquittal on a number of grounds. That's the part where we don't have any objections and we'll support it. The third section refers to establishing a basis for priests and religious servants. It's usually an idea, an initiative of churches and religious communities. It's about harmonising these bases, the way it suits the church's legislation. So we don't have any objections in that part, and we'll support it. The fourth part is a question that regulates the amendments to the Law on Contribution to Mandatory Social Insurance, which is a matter of precision on the basis of the contribution and method of calculating and determining and paying contributions for entrepreneurs who use leave due to maternity leave, leave for child care and leave for special care of the child. It's about entrepreneurs using this right. This right is otherwise given in the Financial Support Act to families. They use compensation during maternity leave. Here it is now precise and in these amendments to the law, this is what I was talking about, if it continues to carry out its work through authorized management. This is a question that deserves a more detailed explanation. This is a question that deserves to be given to the public the final answer. What's this about? We have had a situation in previous years, that entrepreneurs, or entrepreneurs who use maternity leave, are accounting for contributions to compulsory social security in one year, and are not accounted for in one year. It was just unregulated. Obviously, now is the idea of being precise. Of course, it caused great problems. Even tax administrations reacted differently. Some were counting, and some were not counting. This puts entrepreneurs in an unequal position in Serbia. As far as I know, the Serbian citizen's protector also reacted on this issue. So, when it comes to this part of the law that talks about it, it is necessary to give a clear answer to the public – does the proposed amendment of the law provide answers to that question, is this a solution that is given, does it solve the problem of entrepreneurs and the obligation to pay contributions, is that fair and is that how it is solved, as it is for everyone? Our point is that every mother, so she was an entrepreneur, she was employed, she owned the company, and I'm not counting any further, she must have the same rights. That's what I expect from the government, that after this session, there's a clear answer to this question. I'm going to end up with one comment on the reasoning of the law, and that's the sixth part that's talking about the impact analysis. I fully agree with what is said here, given the character of these changes and the addition of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, that no financial effects are expected. By passing the crosslaw, I've stated what changes her. It shows that some financial effects are not expected. And I want to warn you about that, and also about that, when watching the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in general, the law is such a character that it only makes sense if it has financial effects. It's an important law. It's a law that determines contributions to mandatory social security. It is a law that, through the payment of the contribution of compulsory social security, provides for the functioning of the pension insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance system. Without implementing this law, it is not possible to enable these three systems to function. That's why it's my question, and I think the government has to, my government has to deal with this issue more, with the issue of tax collection and contributions. You may have more precise data, but the authority said unpaid contributions exceed the budget deficit. It is no longer possible to resolve the budget deficit by reducing rights. It is also necessary to address the enforcement of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, their control, the taking of measures on payment of contributions. We had one system of tax and tax control which, I say, was put aside, and we didn't introduce the new ones and we have to deal with it. It is true that last year a State Register Act was adopted which is tasked with ensuring the unity of all information in this area, rapid response, etc. It enters into force on 1 January 2013. Until then, given this law, the government has to deal with these issues and has to do much to allow for greater collection of the claim for contributions. Only if such a thing is done, if they are charged, that I am not talking about the essence now, that the law must be implemented, and that I am not talking about financial effects, in which case the budget deficit can be reduced, and it may or may not be touched by pension, health and unemployment insurance rights. I wanted to point out this warning, and when it comes to entrepreneurs, and when it comes to the collection of contributions, as a message to my government to come out clearly with a view to the citizens of Serbia. I'll be back to square one. We will support these changes to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57898	Twelve minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Before I give my word to MP Veroljub Arsic, who is the authorised representative of the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am giving the following notice. During today's working day, the break will be decided immediately after the debate of the law, which is under way, for an hour. After the break, we will move on to a joint principled search on reports of the trustee for equality and the trustee for information. Today we'll be working after 1800 hours, and by the end of the debate of the common agenda principle, which we begin after the break. MP Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that this is a harmonisation of the law, that the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Contributions of Mandatory Social Insurance, in fact, the harmonisation of the law with the Law on Volunteering, is part of the alignment with the Law on Income Tax and, in one way, the harmonisation of one of the wrong, wrong, misused and quite selfish appearances of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and the Republical Authorities of the Tax Administration. In addition, these famous changes and additions, that if someone employs over 50 years of age, they cannot, on some other basis or on this, or on two different grounds, exercise the same right. We'll talk about it in detail. However, everyone is declarative in this government of political life to increase the birth rate, for us to be threatened with the white plague and we all advocate, allegedly, that this situation be corrected. However, there is often one thing in life that is said and the other is working. This government is doing exactly the opposite. Article 4 The amendment and supplementation proposal says – the provisions of Item 1-3 do not also apply to entrepreneurs who make a profit compensation during maternity leave, the absences of child care and the absence from work for special care of the child, and the activity continues to be carried out through authorized management. In translation, this would mean that a foster parent who has an independent shopping shop, a catering or in any way provides some kind of service or does some good, does not have the right to be freed from the contribution to compulsory social security. On the condition that, hers, her entrepreneurial internship trusts someone else. It seems to me that those who write laws don't know enough life and don't know enough the real situation as it is in the economy, how small businesses work, how entrepreneurs work, what conditions and where all the ways are obtained to earn any income and provide jobs and income for themselves and for some other person who works for them. A question regulated by the Constitution is raised whether this law fulfils the constitutional obligation, which is that all are equal before the law and that they all have the same rights and obligations under the law. In this law, it means that families that are also employers do not release contributions to compulsory social security, while all other employers are exempt from it. To be clear, continuing to work doesn't mean that whoever owns that entrepreneur is still working. A little bit separate the physical face from the entrepreneur. The physical face is maternity, the entrepreneur is the one who performs the work, and that is the problem when you pass laws like this and you don't want to understand what's the fact and what's true. And how do you think to repair the inflow of funds into the budget, because you are already in one of the following members, Article 11 when an entrepreneur makes a profit in the duration of maternity leave, leave for the care of the child and leave for the special care of the child, the activity continues to be carried out through the authorised manager, accounts and payments of contributions after that reception, on behalf of the entrepreneur and for the benefit of the entrepreneur, by a person who, according to the law, performs the tasks of the authorised management. You know what, ladies and gentlemen, the one who accepts to lead, represent, represent and to whom management rights are transferred will not do so for small money. He'll also be able to account for this entrepreneur he's representing. What do you have as a consequence? As a consequence, you will have not an increase in the budget, but a reduction. Private entrepreneurs will be forced or entrepreneurs to check out their businesses, so to speak. If the workers were fired, they would cease to act, so they wouldn't continue to be under pressure from the tax administration for money they couldn't earn for child care. It'll be a consequence. I can't understand the so much desire of the legislator of the law of the Republic Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance to regulate this in this way even though it's regulated by special laws, such as the Labour Act, such as the Family Act with children, and which laws are now in collegiate with this law. So, the law says that maternity leave is a relief to make up for during maternity leave being borne by the state. Why doesn't this right apply to all entrepreneurs and even to those peasants who go to the field with a pest, while raising children can't do it and have a registered household. Why not for them? No, it's important to fill the budget. It's important to buy cars. For you, ladies and gentlemen of power, your drivers without you are rampant in the streets. I caught them on Sundays in front of a hyper-market, official cars, maybe one of you, wife and children on Sunday nights at checkout stations, ministers with women and children in official cars at border crossings towards Greece. Is that why they should pay pregnant women's taxes? Is that why it needs to be saved in the budget? Is that why you need to make up some more tax dollars? To make things worse, you're starting with another story and you're limiting the right of an entrepreneur to whom he's going to transfer his powers. To make it even more complicated and expensive. The transfer of the right of someone to dispose of property belongs exclusively to the owner of the property. He's the one who's going to determine the face. It could be one of his family's members, he could even be a worker who works at that company store. I don't know, that when one minister was on maternity leave, we quickly returned to work. It is commendable, perhaps because of the child's conviction, but I don't remember the Assembly changing the minister for that, and whether he only transferred the minister's right to certain questions concerning employees in the ministry or all or had to bring in acts every morning that the minister, who was on maternity leave, signed. I don't mind and that's because the one who fits has the right to decide and the minister decides. The one whose property is entitled to decide who he will transfer his management rights to, and don't legally limit it because there is no conflict of interest here and there is no possibility of abuse. In any case, whatever rights are passed on to, he also responds to the law, but so does the entrepreneur who entrusted him with these powers and his enterprise. Why do you do things like that? So, here, the goal is that those tax solutions that were not in line with the legislation so far finally become official, so that those abuses you have committed no one bears any responsibility or moral or criminal and that if possible, you can achieve any more revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I am telling you, income in the Republic of Serbia's budget will not be increased on this basis and does anyone even know who writes such laws, how this refaction is achieved on the basis of maternity leave. The employer is obliged to pay the employee, regardless of whether he is sick or maternity or any other, all contributions, and on the basis of the sick report, he asks the competent national authority to refute the funds. I don't see why you can't do that for pregnant women who are entrepreneurs. I don't see the reason for the laws that are the effects of the law. How much are you going to increase the budget inflow? How much harm will you do to your parents and how much will you demotize them to give birth to children more? Today we live in difficult times, difficult people join the end, no matter whether they're entrepreneurs or work somewhere. How are you going to stimulate them and continue to work and hire people and give birth to children? This way, I'm sure you won't. Because of all this, the SNS parliamentary group in voting day will not vote to amend and supplement this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57900	Eleven minutes and 40 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The People's MP, Milorad Buh, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57901	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, here is another empty law, which is basically just a alignment with other legal regulations, but the essential thing that bothers this society we don't solve. For the SRS, this is just one cosmetic change, which we will iron out for ourselves a certain alignment with another regulation, and what is important and essential we do not solve. What aren't we dealing with? We do not address the issue of sufficient budgetary resources and sufficient resources in funds, pension and disability funds, health insurance funds, employment funds and all other relevant funds. In recent years, it's been a characteristic situation where we have empty funds, empty budgets, even empty funds. As the budget is in the deficit, so are the deficits and funds. What's the government's mission? The government's task is to create preconditions, to create an ambience for those who pay contributions to have enough resources, to be liquid and to be able to pay both taxes and contributions from these adequate funds. Is the state creating preconditions? It doesn't. Do we have in the last six or seven years a latent deficit increase, both in the budget and in the funds. Between 2001 and 2011, the financial system of the Republic of Serbia passed between 85 billion and 90 billion euros on various grounds: through donations, through credit lines that went through international financial institutions, through the banking system, through donations received by various entities, starting from the state through state institutions, public enterprises, public institutions, etc. Certain credit lines that pushed banks, we had privatisation, we had failed privatisation, etc. All in all, through the financial system, never in the history of Serbia has so much funds gone through. What are the effects? The effects are that today we do not have an economy, that we have a deficit in the budget, and now we have billions of euros, that they are empty, that the deficit in the funds is very large deficits in the funds, etc., that we have great unemployment, that we have a stagnation in business and various other negative phenomena, and through the financial system, it has countered so much funds. Why are the funds empty? It's a fundamental issue that needs to worry the government. They're empty because we don't have a business environment, we don't have a citizen who's solvent to carry out tax obligations and payment obligations. Here, I'm going to pass on some financial indicators that have an SRS economic team that points to a major fund dubiosis. I'm going to start with the PIO Insurance Fund, and I'm only going to look back at the part that's being allocated from the budget. Here, in 2006, let's go, this year has already been at the start of privatisation, there have been various grants from international institutions and financial institutions, and then there has been an increase in the allocation of funds from the budget and direct pumping into the PIO Fund. In 2006, 97 billion dinars were pumped, 2007. 110, 2008. 138, 2009. 213, 2010 215 and 2011 231, to circle. But it won't be for 2011, there won't be enough funds, because our payments to this fund are dropping, so the state will have to settle these amounts. Look, in the last five years, over 130% and something is an increase in budget separation into this fund. Why? This is the result of the lack of funds that comes on the basis of payment by employers. When we cross-reference this data with the amount of funds he has the Fund with, then we see how huge the allocations of the PIO Insurance Fund are. In 2003 there were 146 billion dinars in this fund, 2006 258. So, in three years, it almost doubled. In 2009, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United This represents 15% of GDP. This government has to worry, but this government doesn't worry, it doesn't care. By the size of the allocation and the size of the contribution to PIO and the total PIO Fund, among the countries that have the highest participation in GDP, 15% of the economists do not know that the state that singles out more. I'll read to you here how much we have in the region, I can't find it now, but I'll remember, Slovenia at 9%, Bulgaria is about 9%, BiH is around 11%, Croatia between 10% and 11%, and Romania is the best standing around 7.5%. You see me twice as much as Romania. Now what has been done by the government, here today is three years since this government's election, what has been done for these three years to make these negative flows, these negative repercussions in the indicators of the ID and to come up with adequate measures to correct all this that we're talking about? Almost no real measure. These days we were able to read in the media that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development was going into the process of economic analysis of the payments of contributions and reductions, because it is a great pressure. Probably the Ministry of Finance didn't answer, I didn't read that information that the Ministry of Finance did anything in terms of making certain analyses. It has been read in several means of public information, I have read that the Ministry of Economy for a certain analysis and that these days it will come out with measures to reduce social security contributions and create preconditions to help the economy, because it is the economy that pays these funds and that it is possible for them to get the liquidity of funds from which they will pay into these funds. The question arises why did the government come out with this proposal? Why did this proposal go with it if the relevant Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is doing a certain analysis? I guess we do a deeper analysis, we come up with certain measures that we're going to create preconditions for the payment of contributions, and then we make one mini or max reform in this area and come up with some solutions. Like this, cosmetic change, like this one, doesn't mean anything to us anyway. We must be worried about everything together about employment. Serbia's employment level is dropping. In 2001, 46%, and now, according to the Bureau of Statistics, is 36.2%. With this negative trend, there is an increase in unemployment, from about 20% in early or mid-2010, and now we are at 22.2%. It's official statistics from the Bureau of Statistics. At the end of last year, the IMF brought us the information that we are officially hiding, that 400,000 workers lost their jobs during the crisis. Now economic experts favoring the government say it is far more, that it is as much as 540,000, from mid-2008 to this moment. The Institute of Statistics comes out with data that it is only in October 2010. - In April 2010, 100,000 people remained unsaved. What does it look like? It doesn't seem like anything. Could this government be socially responsible? She can't be socially responsible. A government that does not have social measures, which has no activity to improve living and working conditions in economic flows, creates preconditions for normal functioning of the economy, is not a socially responsible government. The SRS' economic team has come up with the following data, and we can find this in the means of information, around the media are conveying everything that can be ripped out of the relevant ministries, but this clearly speaks of a catastrophic situation in this area, especially as regards the contribution. The economy only 26% regularly reconciles taxes and contributions. All 26% of business entities are regularly at peace. Up to 15 days, it's 15%, up to 30 days, in terms of manuals, 11%, and over 30 days 48%. That's what I need to worry about. Half the economy is a month late. Now, if we were to be strict in the application of legal rules, all these companies would be blocked, stopped work and would suffer huge financial consequences, especially when it comes to VAT and the part relating to government taxes, i.e. taxes. When we talk about contributions, then we need to point out the negative trends that have been present since 2007 through the work of the Tax Administration, with regard to the orderly settlement of tax obligations and contributions. During 2007, 12000 companies were blocked by the Tax Administration. Four years later, in 2011, we now have over 70,000 blocked companies. Because tax obligations and obligations based on social contributions are carried out disorderly. Through this blockade, in 2007, the budget was damaged through the blockade, and we do not have an adequate system, a prejudicial judicial system that will calm these commitments that have been blocked and as such frozen. The PIO Fund remains the foundation of those liabilities that have been blocked, that's 180 billion. If that adds 90 billion dinar interest, we get a base of taxes and contributions based on a $270 million payment of PIO insurance. What was in 2007, it was almost negligible for what was in 2010. The base, meanwhile, has risen to 333 billion plus 222 billion dinars, the figure since the seventh month of 2010, which accounts for a total of 555 billion. It's one budget of PIO insurance and a little more. What's going to happen in 2011? Also a negative trend, an increase in the base and an increase in interest. What we consider to be, it's about 700 billion dinars -- the base plus interest, at the end of 2011. That's one-and-a-half of the budget of the PIO Insurance Fund. That's not how much the economy paid for the blockades. What was done to help the team in the blockade? What was done by the government and the state authorities to charge these funds, to pump into the financial system? Nothing. It's less or less a blockade, these companies go into bankruptcy, then they go into liquidation, etc. These are the funds that remain frozen, etc. You don't talk about them anymore. The social picture of Serbia is disastrous. Today, we have 700,000 inhabitants on the verge of poverty. We have 760 and a few thousand unemployed. We have 178,000 residents receiving social assistance. We have 343 thousand pensioners who are receiving a pension under 11,000 dinars. We've got 250,000 workers who get paid after 90 days. We have 45,000 nursing homes in the country that live with incomes less than 100 euros. We have 82,000 children who have no income. We've got 50,000 residents feeding on people's kitchens. So almost two and a half million people are in social trouble. Here, it's a social map of Serbian citizens. It's a current state to talk about. And this discussion and discussion after this will try, and especially we opposition representatives who show you, we are looking for a solution and we are looking for a far more agile policy. What's devastating right now is that the government is not entering system solutions. One of the system solutions is to regulate the stability of the financial system if it doesn't enter by the end of the year, and it probably won't get in because we don't have time. Why don't we have time? Because we didn't do the analysis in time, we didn't prepare the measurements. In 2012, it was an election year. What do you expect in the election year the government is doing? It won't work. When are we gonna get a new government? Somewhere back in the second half of the year. Can this government prepare certain sets of legal regulations in 2012? He won't. Why won't they? Because there's no basis prepared for that. We don't have an analysis. If we don't have an analysis, what do you expect? That our funds would be full? How are our funds going to be full, when we have an exhale economy, when we have citizens who are overindebted, when the entire system is blocked? Political volunteerism. A few sentences about the work of the PIO fund. We have to get him here, and when I say that, I mean the volunteerism that has ruled this fund for years. We read in the means of informing about the abuses in this fund, that certain funds were going unintentional. But no one answered. According to some data, 122 million dinars were paid to different entities, according to data and financial police findings at the time of 2003 and 2004. According to that report, there was a warrant for those funds to be returned. Not a single penny has been returned. Did anyone answer? He didn't answer. During 2010, severance payments were paid for 461 persons, officials of this fund. Over two million euros were paid. One part of the workers who received the severance went to other state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57902	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57903	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This way, I would like to express my regret that no minister is present at the moment in the O.R., it seems that a weak person is interested in the question of contributions to mandatory social security. I can understand that there is no Deputy Prime Minister Djelic, who was formally meant to represent this bill, but I think there should be a minister of labour and social policy here today. However, I can also understand the absence of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, because it is likely to the Government, as it is, if not the most difficult and then certainly the most unpleasant task of being Minister of Labour and Social Policy, because these two areas are actually the areas that best illustrate all the weight and complexity of the situation in which we are as a society and as a state. I say this because at the beginning of the work of this government, exactly three years ago, a very often used term – social responsibility. Of course, the social and economic situation is generally closely linked. The social situation and payment of contributions cannot depend solely on the competent ministry's ability to organise an area, but depends to the greatest extent on the country's ability to create an ambience and provide conditions for the development of the economy, to create new jobs, to attract new investments. It is the only way to create preconditions to provide funding for a sustainable social protection system. The borrowing of the state, especially commercial loans, in order for some of these, conditionally speaking, holes to be filled up is not a good solution because this only further poorer states that are additionally in debt and an even greater number of people who are dependent on help. All this also affects the capacity of citizens to pay contributions to compulsory social security. Anyone who is held responsible should put a finger on his forehead and consider that one day someone will have to pay back. We must not act on that maximum of Louis 15, who said – after us and the flood. It is even less permitted to act according to the maximum Luja 14 said – State, it is me. Unfortunately, after the government's reconstruction, which was pompously announced in public, there was a lack of vision of a serious commitment to the country's economic recovery and thus the strengthening of the social policy sector. None of the parties in power have offered fresh solutions. The administration, despite the mere merger of resolution ministries, remained massive, inefficient and expensive. This is best pictured on Serbia's current social map. Just enough to say that we have over 700,000 people living below the poverty line, and according to IMF data over the last three years, 400,000 jobs have been lost. Also, the shocking fact is that 167 thousand people fall annually below the poverty line. The legislative proposal on the agenda today is mostly technical and deals with the alignment of terminology with a number of other laws and some minor interventions. Its range is not such that it could bring some major and serious shifts in the social sphere. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of the law, there is a need to edit basic contributions for priests and religious servants. The proposed solution is fine, and I think it's positive that the rules of the social security sector are respected on the one hand, while the other respects the internal rights of churches and religious communities. In other words, it is left to the churches themselves, i.e. to the religious communities that, as autonomous communities, regulate the extent of the basics of the contribution, in accordance with their own regulations. It is important here to mention that since 2004, through the Ministry of Faith, the state has allocated money to pay off contributions to the clergy for endangered and marginal areas, such as KIM. Of course, in the meantime, the number of priests and all the needs has increased, and the question is, is it possible in the current situation for this kind of payment to be taken over by the Social Insurance Fund? That, of course, would also be a question for the minister. On the other hand, we are witnessing that there has been a lot of debate in the previous period whether and how it is possible to address the problem of social contributions to the clergy at the level of local self-government. Of course, I don't think at this point it's even realistic to discuss it, given the fact that the state has significantly reduced and abolished transfers to local self-government, so just a lot of people are committed to mere survival and they can't think about anything else. Amendments and additions also define a way of determining contributions for entrepreneurs using maternity leave. I'm going to remind you of the problem in this area, which has been talked about quite a bit lately. In fact, it has been resolved so far by a regulation that has effectively imposed on women entrepreneurs that if they use maternity leave as mothers, they must close their businesses. Also, these women received a solution from the tax administrations, that they must retroactively pay funds for social contributions based on their own performance for a period of time while on maternity leave. There are about 50,000 women entrepreneurs in Serbia and it has been quite clear whether this regulation violates both their fundamental human rights and the laws of this country, or the Labour Act, the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination, the Law on Gender Equality. Also, the question arises as to what kind of message is being sent this way and questions the whole story of the private initiative, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, economic development and support for equal participation of women in the economic life of our country. We believe that it is positive that the legislator is harmonising this bill with the Voluntary Law in such a way as to provide support to volunteers in the event of injury or disability at work. However, we have to be honest and we have to say that such ad hocs can be arranged by some segments of the system, but it will not solve major strategic problems. I think the question of what value in our society does power impose on citizens? In fact, we are in such a state that the greatest service anyone can do for you today is to provide you with any job. Employment should be a normal and common thing, on the basis of expertise and will-to-work basis, and it is in the state to create such an environment, and this would also solve the issue of funding for social security contributions, as increasing the number of jobs and strengthening the economy also increases the amount of funds that can be paid. The concern is also the fact that the employers' contributions are paid by about 600,000 citizens messyly or paid to a minimumer, and about 300,000 citizens are not paid at all. The debt is about 170 billion dinars for outstanding contributions. Since 1 January 2010, a rule by which no one could raise the money for the salary should be applied unless he first paid the contributions, but unfortunately that did not happen. Contributions are not only paid by those allowed by the state, because the state, in fact, has poor control. The problem is the state of our economy. All this data says we're in front of a social tsunami. It's scary, but it's even scarier to see that those who run the state are not aware of it and offer us a different reality than the one we see on the ground every day. This is best seen from when the Prime Minister claims that employment is growing, and immediately then denied by experts from the Statistics Office, who have quite the opposite claims. Of course, on this issue, the Bureau of Statistics quoted both the IMF and Eurostat and the World Bank, and the Prime Minister was quoted by only individual media, some quoted him as saying that they would issue this statement as a couriness and some as official duty. Getting out of this situation isn't easy, but it does. In order to go that way, the situation must first be realistically seen and the problem exists. The truth must be looked into the eyes and seen that there are 1,800,000 orders in Belgrade alone for forced collection due to citizens' debts towards "Infostane", EPS, Telecom, etc. So, due to citizens' debts to settle basic needs. Imagine the number of cases that are at the level of all of Serbia. Probably also on the above data, the Prime Minister is based on optimism that he will receive another mandate in the next elections and there is no chance of losing because the government has achieved significant results. Just mentioned are impressive results, only with a negative sign. Another interesting thing is that yesterday even the Swedish ambassador apostrophe of the Republic of Serbia as responsible for the fact that large parts of Serbia are literally emptied by population migration. Obviously, this government has no single policy, no operating strategy, no capacity to lead the country out of the general crisis. To conclude, this legal proposal will not solve many burning problems, which was not the ambition of her writer’s hand in heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57904	Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a principled search of the application for a word in writing with the order of MPs submitted by the parliamentary groups of DSS and the SRS. In accordance with the order of the Members of the People, I give my first word to the People's MP, Mr. Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57905	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must express my regret that we do not have a representative of the government here, in order to ask him a question. So far there has been Mr Oliver Dulic. We also expected Minister Rasim Ljajic, perhaps Vice President Djelic, but none of them are there. In the meantime, if they stop by to have coffee at the congregation restaurant, I expect they'll come to this room. Today we are talking about amendments to the Law on Contribution to Mandatory Social Giving. I don't understand why we're talking about this law today, because it's usually about social laws when there's a major crisis in the country, when the state can't pay off certain social benefits. However, as far as I've heard from our prime minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, Serbia has also come out of the crisis and that they believed it, not to be offended by all those who are in his environment, and also frankly have not told him certain things that are happening in Serbia, which is that at this point about 700,000 poor in Serbia or are on the verge of existence, and among them 300,000 children, that around 400,000 jobs have been lost during the three years, while he is in power, and we all know that our President Boris Tadic's promises that this government led by Mirko Cvetkovic will create an ambience for the new 200,000 jobs. This government has come to a political fleet of social responsibility and justice. But out of social responsibility, fighting for social justice seems to be nothing and that all those false promises have been made in the sea of demagogy and cheap pulsism. The government's reconstruction was announced on all bells, pompously, as if the government's reconstruction was meant to bring newer quality life to all citizens of Serbia. However, what is the fact that this government was not engaged in the economic development of Serbia, and thus also by analogy of social issues for all social, poor people, but rather by many parties that did not offer some new solutions to the sustainability of the social system in the government, they were engaged in virtual decentralisations, the employment of their personnel and the better the position for the next elections. Hand to hand, the minister of labour and social policy himself could not solve this big problem of Serbia's citizens with all knowledge or ignorance, but rather the government, by making one more quality economic environment, has created some new jobs, which she has not done at the moment. What the government has done is only lend social loans to pay for this social aid and thus increasingly and more poverty our country and increase social aid consumption. When it comes to the law itself, these amendments and additions to the law, as explained, come down to a number of things, primarily to defining the contributions of church officials and priests. It is good to remind all of you that in 2004, the government of Vojislav Kostunica also solved this problem, especially in these areas and in KIM, by bringing together these work internships and paying for the social category. But what was being debated in some perspective was that local self - administrations themselves took part in all this. However, probably due to the lack of money in the local self-government budget, as the government did not pay them the transfers in time, it remained only a dead letter on paper. Also, this law also refers to entrepreneurs who are using maternity leave, and at this point there are about 50,000 women who are headed by some private companies or STR shops and right now the government has to take care of these women, mothers, future housewives, because in this way we send a clear message that this country for the creation of a family as a basic cell of society, to increase the birthright and equality of women in the society itself, as well as an initiative to create small and medium-sized enterprises, whose heads are women right now. It's a good idea that the government has brought this bill into line with the Volontarism Act, especially when it comes to injuries and disability. We have to say that these are controversial cases of this law and that nothing is systemically solved here. One basic question arises – is the government ready to tackle this problem in a systematic way, to solve the problem of all social cases, social groups and to solve the problem of all those consumables that are on the surface of folk cuisine. We can't see at all because of these things that we have stated, our Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's optimistic statement that this power, the parties that make up this power, will certainly win the next election. This is how the confusing statements will certainly be heard in the future, as the election campaign is slowly being launched. There is also a good statement by Mr Rasim Ljajic, who is not here today, who said that the government will surely lose the election and he has been in my eyes since then an extremely objective and realistic politician, because man is looking at politics and the situation in this country in an objective and realistic way. I'm sorry that Mr. Dulic left, but I wanted to ask him certain things about the statement mentioned by visiting colleague Nikola Lazic. Yesterday in "Blica" came news about the city where I came from -- the government is responsible for the emptying of large parts of Serbia. He further says: "Sweden Ambassador to Serbia today said in Leskovac that Serbia's government is the most responsible for the fact that large parts of Serbia's territory are literally emptied by population migration. "I must say that the only ministry of Mr. Dulic is also affecting this population migration because it is changing the course of Corridor 10. We also had a large number of meetings with him and we wanted to point out this problem, that he must not change the course of Corridor 10, which passes by the town of Predjana, because that way, he will also encourage the migration of the population from that space. The government has been trying segmentally to solve the problem of social giving and the social system at all, however, has not resolved this law. "One property doesn't make spring." I believe that some future government that comes after this socially responsible government will have the strength and capacity to solve all these problems that have accumulated and created the government, and until then we are waiting for new elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57906	Thank you, Mr. Pejcic. The word has the People's MP, Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are having a debate without an authorised representative of the Government, without a representative of the Ministry of Finance, and the amendments to the law that we are discussing today concern several categories of contributors – priests, religious officials, farmers, volunteers, persons on professional training, independent artists, more specifically their associations, mothers on maternity leave and persons with disabilities. Certain provisions refer to compliance with some other regulations, some of which bring some newspapers. I will talk about the provisions of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which relate to mothers who deal with entrepreneurship and go on maternity leave and persons with disabilities. As regards the provision of Article 4 The bill refers to the establishment of the basis of the contribution for compulsory social security for entrepreneurs who make a profit compensation for maternity leave, leave of work for the care of children and leave of work for special care of the child, and the activity continues to be carried out through authorised management. It's probably all the consequences of what we all remember from December last year, when the Union of Employers of Serbia asked the Ministry of Finance to urgently prevent discrimination against women entrepreneurs on maternity leave. Namely, the Tax Administration asked women entrepreneurs to return the money they received in the name of a refund in the course of maternity leave. It's about 30 women of company owners from several Serbian cities. The latest data from June this year says that it is about 5,000 women and the average debt of about 175,000 dinars. One of the mentions is the owner of the company from Piroth and was asked by the IRS for 130,000 dinars she received while she was on maternity leave. As the owner of the company, before going to maternity leave, she respected all the legal regulations, or authorized another person to run the company during her absence and regularly paid taxes and contributions for health and pension insurance. However, the problem arises because of the internal regulation of January 2009, which the Tax Administration handed over to her a year and a half later, under which owners of the company should check out the companies during maternity leave. That's why you want your money back. Instead of being committed to the child, this entrepreneur had to deal with bureaucratic problems, although she respected all the legal regulations in time and proper. In the Tax Administration, they said that there is no ambiguity because if the founder of the store is longer than 30 days on sick leave and temporarily entrusts the tasks of the other person, which has been done in this case, the store performs its work, earns profits, and the founder is given a solution to determining social security contributions. In the service of childcare, they considered that, while respecting the legislation at the time and stroking all taxes and contributions, the owner of the company used the right to it that those taxes and contributions which the Tax Administration is now charging to it double, what the state had already paid for it, that it was a matter of the republican authorities which had adopted such a regulation, which was not in accordance with the law under which the right was used. This case ended in court. The employers' union announced it would open proceedings before the Constitutional Court and appeal to the International Court in Strasbourg unless the state finds a solution. Decision which state, i.e. The government of the Republic of Serbia is offering this bill of law contrary to the interests of entrepreneurs' mothers and wants to officialise the obligation to pay for contributions twice. It is a well-known thing that the environment in Serbia is such, not stimulating for the birth of children, and the problem of the fall of birth is extremely high, and an even bigger problem is because of the authorities' representatives closing their eyes before that. For years, the government has focused its activities backwards on how to provide to a greater extent companies so that tycoons can privatise them at miserable prices, by borrowing all available sources to cover the deficit in the state register, because the opportunities for employment in the real sector are small, almost nothing, so the party staff makes up a huge state apparatus that costs, then how to install tenders to certain companies, which is the data of the Public Procurement Authority, that according to estimates that more spending on corruption account of about 20% of the total value of public procurement, which in particular in the case of Serbia means that there are 800m euros per year. By dealing with these and similar activities, officials do not have time to deal with the problem of decline in birth, and the data tells the following. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy data say that 30,000 babies were born in Serbia in 2008 less than is necessary for the average reproductive replacement of the population. This is Minister Ljajic's statement. According to the Office of the Province of Vojvodina, the rate of natural origin in Vojvodina was minus five, which is why the population in Vojvodina is among the oldest on the planet. In Vojvodina, there is concern and information relating to the structure of the family, because 34% of families with only one child, 31% with two, only 4.4% with three children, while families with more than three children are below 1%. On this occasion, I don't have enough time to present information on a large number of couples who don't have any children, and one of the reasons is the poor material situation in the family. On the other hand, there is an increasing number of patients with sterility both female and male. We'll talk about it more when there's a discussion in detail. I will now point out that the SRS Parliament Club has submitted amendments that we ask for to be removed from the Bill of Law from these provisions that are detimulative for mothers entrepreneurs. Given that individual colleagues from the ruling majority's parties, namely counterpart Petronijevic, expressed views identical to those of the SRS, we will talk more about these arguments when we discuss the amendments. I expect these amendments to the SRS to be supported by fellow parties from the ruling majority. I would also point out that it has been six months since the SRS Parliament Club submitted to the National Assembly a Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which we have proposed measures that will positively affect population policy. And today, this bill is not being considered, and we have proposed that the right to parental child care be covered by parents who have more than five children. We believe that for every child born alive, parents should receive the above mentioned supplements, as this would directly affect the increase in birth rate. Let's now go back specifically to the bill, which is the point of today's agenda. Also, we have submitted an amendment to Article 10. A bill of law relating to persons with disabilities. Article 45b of the basic law defines that an employer, who, indefinitely, employs a person with disabilities, is exempt from the obligation to pay contributions to compulsory social security paid on the basis of or on the burden of the employer's assets for a period of three years from the date of establishment of the working relationship of that person. This draft law now seeks to amend and lay down a provision that, employers who use for a particular person, or used the exemption from payment of contributions on another legal basis in accordance with the relevant regulation, cannot benefit from the same person from the payment of contributions provided for in this Article. The SRS disagrees with this because it does not improve the quality of a person's life with disabilities. You have introduced such a restriction when it comes to persons over 50 years of age, trainees under 30 years of age, as well as persons over 45 years of age for whom contributions are calculated at rates reduced by 80%. We did not intervene to avoid representatives of the ruling parties saying that we are against everything proposed. On the contrary, we carefully analyze every attitude and point to what is unacceptable. In this case, it's really unacceptable for people with disabilities. We know that in May 2009 the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was adopted and applied since May 2010. There are certain shifts in improving the lives of these faces, though unfortunately, and in this area it is selective. But in no case should employers be limited to certain reliefs. I must indeed point out that the Republic of Serbia is giving the budget a boost to foreign investors and up to 10,000 euros per new job, and now this bill wants to remove the relief given, if already used for the same person. If only this fact is considered, isn't that directly discriminating people with disabilities? In addition to this, I would like to point out that all employees of the SRS, more specifically General Bozidar Delic, as vice president of the National Assembly, have addressed all employees of the "DES" – a company for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities in restructuring. 52% of employees are disabled, and there are still 30% of people with disabilities. The state of "DES" has been notified by the union of all ministries and city halls. Some of the bodies mentioned have come forward, but nothing concrete has been done for the survival and continued business of DES. The problem lasts for 10 years, and some former directors are being prosecuted. Employees are asking for work and for the company to survive, because all faces are accomplished as parents. Because of the bad business policy, "DES" has been damaged for 32 payouts and are urging all competent inspections to intervene. The DES workers are in protest and are daily ahead of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and the Belgrade City Assembly. A government that calls itself socially responsible after three years, which allows people with disabilities to strike on the street every day, should immediately come out and say clearly – that it is socially irresponsibly irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57908	The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic. He's not here. Then, Mr. Stevanović, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think, Mr. Novakovic, that the MPs who have been defined as speaking today really shouldn't despair that none of the representatives of the Government are here, those who are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the National Assembly are able to talk and respond with the MPs, because I deeply believe they wouldn't have anything to say to us. I think the atmosphere, seemingly small and short-law, but not a little insignificant law, we're talking, just created by government representatives. In my presentation, I will address you Mr. Novakovic and the ladies of the ministry, not asking them for answers, given, I repeat, that they cannot give them, they have no business opportunity for such a thing. What is fundamentally the reason I don't expect an answer from them is because the answers that would eventually be imposed on my questions and should be given to my questions are primarily political. If we are talking about technicals, which I assume is something that the government is responsible for, the SRS may have no objection to this law, but political aspects, political motives and political consequences of this law, are indeed something that gives room for a serious discussion. It seems to me that none of the present, or MPs who have spoken, of the most important and most important things, as regards the contribution to compulsory social security, have indeed not opened it or mentioned it. I don't know, Mr. Novakovic, did you notice that the first three speakers today, when we started speaking on the list, which address the Parliament, MPs and the public, are people who come from southern Serbia. When you look back on the social map of the Republic of Serbia, the darkest tones are right from the area from which we come – me from the Pcinj County and my colleagues from the Jablani County. I didn't try in public once, and for God's sake, and for the representatives of the majority, or government, to point to the devastating and disastrous position of Serbian citizens in southern Serbia in Pcinjska, Jablanička or other districts. That's when I talked about income per capita, let's say, in Vladica's Han two thousand and some dinars, in Lebanon 1,900 dinars, and I compared them to the average salary in 2010, per capita of the Sava Venac municipality in the 1990s. I don't mind the Sava Venac and the situation of citizens in the Sava Venac, but I resent the Republic of Serbia, or its government, for doing nothing to change the catastrophic regional differences and the situation of citizens, above all, in southern Serbia. We MPs from southern Serbia are trying to identify in this law something that will improve the position of citizens during its adoption, especially in southern Serbia. The regional differences are 15:1, Jablanski and Pcinj County towards the most developed region, as is now popularly called, Belgrade. These are the differences in the municipalities. I'm sorry, 1-7 are in the districts, because Belgrade is treated as a city in Belgrade, I assume you know, a region or a district. We are trying in this law, in amendments and additions to recognize the measures that will really change the blood count, or the social map of people, for example, in southern Serbia. It's not here. I will try to, by reading what the Government has sent before us, to say how unserious this is and deserves this atmosphere, after all, to burden us with the MPs who are or are not responsible, so we sit in the assembly and discuss it, etc. From the government, which did not send an adequate minister, who did not send to us a serious law that would eventually bring us together to sit, if not all of us politically support him, and that would solve concrete problems in Serbia. I don't think you could have expected more. What also occurred to me in the meantime, listening to this morning's news, maybe people are celebrating, celebrating the epochal results of the reconstructed government. I don't think we in the House have the right to blame them. I'll just remind you, our very good prime minister says that the standard of citizens has been improved and that the other two epochal results of the government are the arrest of Ratko Mladic and the progress of negotiations with Pristina. It is a sad government that offers this as its result to citizens and parliament who control it, and God, we, we, we feel daily on our skin the burden of their success and their work. Now, watch this, the analysis of the effects of this law says who and how it will most likely affect the solution in the law. It will not have a negative impact on those categories of obligors and contributions. And then the second question of what kind of law enforcement costs will create for citizens and businesses? Well, he shouldn't be making extra expenses. So, then, whether the positive consequences of law-making are such as to justify the costs that it will achieve, you should not have additional costs for taxpayers. And what is essentially the biggest problem, which is the fourth question, is whether the law supports the creation of new operators on the market and competition, the law has no such intention and has no such effect. For the SRS, too, the most important question today is what this assembly and government should discuss and discuss if it is not the creation of an environment in which new jobs will be opened and the possibility to collect contributions to compulsory social security through these new jobs. What is first and most interesting for the SRS is, which is the question is, should the promoter change the name of the law? We are witnessing daily public talk, those who control and implement fiscal measures, or the RS budget, know that contributions to social security are for whom it is a liability. Today, no one has said anything about it, and the SRS feels that it has an obligation to citizens and to fellow MPs, it may not be acceptable to some, but we are obliged to say so. The mandatory or obligation to reconcile contributions today in Serbia is not for each and for the misfortune of all of us, it is very selective. Very selective. And if we're right, he's also saying that three, rudely wealthy men, a controversial businessman, or as people say -- tycoon, they owe over 150 billion to the state of dinars, right on these grounds. Mr. Miskovic, Mr. Beko and Mr. Drakulić. Total debts based on various tax bases, which are on behalf of the state's contribution, are five billion euros. And you've been climbing out of the stained veins, and you haven't been able to do it either, and we're glad to see you sell Telecom for a billion and 400 million euros to ensure the functioning of the state. So the real political motive, the sale of Telecom, was to provide and function the state rather than introduce the principles of market economy and liberal economy. Imagine five billion being owed on these grounds, and we're talking about changes and additions that are going to improve the position of the clergy here, among other things. And this applies to the representatives of the ministry, we really have no grudges here. Indeed, with these changes and additions, you have created the possibility that the pay gaps in the clergy are less or less uniform. There's nothing controversial about it, and all the rest of you don't want to talk or want to talk. This country has solved all the problems in relations with the church and the religious communities, so this is all to solve. It's all over. It's over. It's over. If the clergy and the church have any other problems, no one cares. The state only remembers them when they need to incriminate them either politically in these or those, and having nothing to do with the smart government remembering, so it's going to change those coefficients and here are the MPs you're supposed to be dealing with something important and important. If in Serbia today the essence of the debate in parliament should be a law in which the harmonisation of these dinar amounts will move from rising prices to low to a consumer price index, then we have indeed shut down. Then we don't need this country, we don't need anything anymore. Mr. Buha, yesterday, the day before yesterday, said in one debate, you were able to solve this with one document for all the laws in which these categories exist. We're wasting our time in the assembly, we're wasting our time in public, we're like something engaged, we're working in the summer period. Will we experience, in three years' time, the epochal work of the Government and the results of Mirko Cvetkovic to come to a law which, after a month or two, will be able to see through the results concretely on the ground and in life? Is he going to live? Will we experience, to say – gentlemen, the tycoons owe this state a billion and a half euros, on behalf of the contribution, we ourselves are not capable, we do not have the courage to deal with them, let the Assembly, which represents the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, stand in the way of such ossion and boastful behaviour. You're not ready to do that. We're talking about consumer price indices? It states in this law that every 30th of the month, the employer is obliged to pay the profits and contribute to the profits and, if he does not pay the earnings, he is obliged to pay the contributions. As possible, in this country up to a few months ago and the state itself owed contributions, you're right, Mr. Krasic, and now he owes. How is it possible that I, as a small privateer who provides a salary for five workers, can't sleep at night 30th because I know that the first inspection will come and butcher me with punishment, and those who have the highest obligation in this country, the biggest obligation to pay, they are relaxed, they are the minister patting on the back, they sit with the prime minister and bring economic and social policies to this country, Serbia 20-20, they promote exports to this country. As far as possible, here I ask the representatives of the majority, if you have a commitment to deal with such individuals in this country. I know, Nicovic owes in my municipality in Livnica a cat with over 100 and a few million, decided, executive solutions. People can't retire, people can't be treated, and we're talking about a consumer price index. You know, one day it has to come up and your indolence will first and foremost expose you to a political system and account, but there is some other responsibility. How is it possible that the owner of a small company or an entrepreneur has to settle his obligations every first month, and one big one doesn't have to. You know what's interesting, the biggest debtors in this country on this basis aren't even the biggest taxpayers. How is that possible? You know how it's possible, because they do their jobs in Serbia. Because they make money in Serbia, and tax obligations or obligations settle through "of short" companies in Cyprus or on some exclusive islands. You don't mind, it doesn't bother you because they're funding campaigns, and until Serbia deals with it, you can pass whatever laws you want, send us to parliament whatever you want. It is our obligation to raise our conscience to you because of the inability and indifference to these anomalies of this crime, this lawlessness, this national destruction and, of course, to tell the public where the essential problems are. The biggest problem in the country today is immunity. Right? Are we talking about the immunity of people who have conducted procedures and privatisations for your 10 years? Privatisation procedures that make no sense anymore. There is no obligation, for some there exists for others. People, I repeat, can't retire, can't be treated, the fundamental human rights in this country can't be realised because this law was not respected, the basic law, the law that changes this law. We're funding local self-government as much as we can, not as much as the law says, so now we're going to offer twice as much. We didn't even have to pay for it, and now we're going to increase them twice as much. There's no responsibility, what do we care? At the same time last year we end up as the country with the highest inflation, ending up as the country with the highest unemployment rate, not in the environment, on the European continent. Now one of us is looking for a serious debate to see this matter in the dark. What topic? What's the position of the disabled? You mean this to improve the position of the disabled, to improve the position of the people, the church, the clergy? Where'd you get the money? They need jobs. They need jobs for people who are capable, who are able to create. You're talking about pension funds here. In 10 years, your authority has raised the awareness of people in Serbia about the importance and meaning of voluntary pension funds, how many of these funds are working and working in Serbia today, it makes sense to exist in Serbia. After all, real money and making money, making income here, investing. There's nothing and you're synchronising prices to a little shift to the consumer price index. How unserious and irrelevant is that? For the sake of illustration, I'll give you just a few statistics and they're very attached to all of this. How do you expect to have stable contributions and taxes in a country where it is easier to import than to produce? We became after 10 years of your economic policy, a country in which it is better and more cost-effective to import than to produce. The Bureau of Statistics published some data in March that you can abuse, but you can't possibly forge. In 10 years, your authority in manufacturing in the processing industry, 300,000 people have lost their jobs. So, only in one sector of economy and economy, 300,000 people, but that sector of economy is the most tough and vital today. In total participation in the average salary in Serbia today, as well as contributions to compulsory social security, they have the highest participation. What are you offering them? Your service to them is credit, grace period, and everything else you manage on your own. You're on your own. For the same period of time, do you know which sectors the least employed lost their jobs or did not remain at all, or did the number of employees increase? The sector of trade and financial services, here they are, a trade of large and small, traffic and storage, which represents services, not production, and there they are after the state administration, etc. When divided on average in March 2011, the average taxes and contributions were 18,770 for our entire economy, the average of which was, according to it, the participation of the processing industry with 3,450 dinars. The participation of 316 dinar agriculture in the whole story. A country that has agri-potential potential and which is the only one in the sector that achieves its surplus. It's a picture and an opportunity of your ten-year-old government. You can politically correct the position of the SRS, and no one believes in the dispute anymore. I sincerely hope that the point will be put on ten years of politics in the next election. The numbers, data and life are inexorable and we meet them every day. We meet them every day. You can present before us laws and data whatever you want, but this is simply a cruel reality. We are talking about mandatory social security and contributions in a country that ended in 2010 with 460,000 in the grey zone of workers. Who here is being discriminated against? In Serbia today, only those who were fairly, correctly in the spirit of the law respected and reconciled their obligations were discriminated against. Today in Serbia, they are discriminated against, as subsidies are given for new jobs. For those of you who have been filling funds for all these years, the state that such service and products have offered and given off their backs, and no one takes care of them. They are threatened by those who are in the gray economy, the state is absolutely discriminatory with its interventionism and you expect it to last, so it will go, so one credit will lie, so we get 300 million, so in September we will broadcast 700 million, 500 euros, 200 million dinar bonds under crazy interest, to pay what you paid and take through the bonds in February of the month and so on, from hollow to empty. The SRS believes that until you gather political courage, and you will never gather it, we will bring laws here to deal with lawlessness, with irresponsible, with tycoons, with those who have destroyed our economic, social, political and every image of this country and society. Any law that you send such a character, such a form, is completely pointless, completely. I sincerely hope, and I will end up with this, in the next election, putting an end to this mondialyst, destructive, and who knows what else in Serbia is a devastating policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57910	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57911	Mr. Novakovic, how much longer? (President: Grub, 30 minutes, but this is a correction. Yes, beautiful anti-European weather. Today we are talking about amendments to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. That's all I have in mind to read from this text of your bill, because everything else I'd read, and God forbid I give him some serious meaning, I'd be resented by the citizens and thought and this one would join these pro-European institutions, demands, etc. Well, let's get in line. The law governing all mandatory contributions issues concerns PIO, health insurance and unemployment insurance. With this bill, the proposer is trying to make a termological adjustment of something that has been changed in the meantime, and they have concluded that it is an epochal thing that needs to be changed in this law. Once that's changed, it's going to light up for both the insurance and the users' rights. I have to start by saying that this bill, or this law at all, is that left-hand side of their financial plan, where they need to provide income for these three state funds. The rate does not change, the method of accounting, the determination of contributions is not changed, nothing else changes, but the farmer and the farmer are no longer a farmer but merely a farmer. The epochal change, it's a great honor to Bozidar Djelic. As well as the consumer price growth index should replace the price growth rate to a little. Well done, Eurostat. What's the third change? It's a bit of a definition of what volunteers are, although it shouldn't have changed, because there was also a category of volunteers working for the common good in the existing law. So that there is no confusion, if they say – well, you're just criticizing, and you're not suggesting anything, I will continue to take advantage of, Mr. Novakovic, the opportunity to talk a little bit about the economic and social programme of the SRS. This is what Mr Dinkic said when he came from the United States 10 years ago, at the airport first – only the SRS has a co-insistant socio-economic programme. Just to remind you, so you don't make a mistake, that you don't come into conflict with Mr Dinkic. It's too bad you don't use it. Let's get in line. If the state has prescribed an insurance obligation, then it must regulate and bear the ultimate responsibility for the entire area. This bill must regulate who insurance companies, who are users and who are payment bonds. These are mandatory contributions. Now that we look at these three funds of ours, we see that in the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund, we have a permanent hole as an ambience, and based on the state's responsibility for that area every year that in the budget has to plan a large amount of funds that the transfer directs the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund, so that people who have obtained the right would not be damaged because of the fact that the Kaiser's pension-inhabitation financing system has failed. The current funding has failed. What's there to do? While production was growing, while employment was growing, while there were some positive economic results of our economy, as long as there was an obligation to pay both taxes and contributions, funds were being charged. Let me remind you, in 1985 at the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund was a mandatory reserve, a three-month amount of all pensions. Today, and not just today, but for the past 20 years, we have a permanent hole. Let me start with what helped make this hole so big, that even the IMF sharpens its pen over Serbia, and therefore we have a situation where pensions and salaries have been stopped to preserve this economic system. This, gentlemen, has been answered in answer to one question – who was all director of the Privatisation Agency after years, how many companies have been privatised and how many contracts have been broken? Here is the data: since 2002 2.280 companies have been privatised and 27.46% and 626 privatisations have been broken. It can be concluded that a great deal of damage has been done with this savage privatisation, because almost, I would say, out of four privatisations, one can look like something that is in line with the regulations, and for three privatisations can only be agreed between the prosecution, the courts, the people of the agency and those who bought this company in the privatisation process who is going to go to jail, or they can all go. Maybe it'd be best if everyone went to jail. Then we have a situation that strong companies, strong by some criteria, especially by advertising, record epochal results, but owe the state and taxes and contributions. Then the question arises – how is it possible for someone to advertise on TV their company and their product, it is very strong and the state owes? You know, if you're a little businessman, so you owe the state, you got yourself killed. If you're a big businessman and you owe it to the state, the state is advertising you, so you can be on the tennis team, you can be on the volleyball team, you can be on the football team, you can be Sugar, you can be this one, and you can be that one, too, it's important that you're seen. What about government obligations? It shows here that Boris Tadic prefers those who do not pay taxes and contributions, but those industrious bakeries, blacksmiths, etc. who have to pay neatly because they are killed. That's our problem, both pension and health insurance and this unemployment insurance. But there's no word on that, there's no word. There's no word in this book. That's perfect. Someone will say – and where is the state with its attributes of power? What's she talking about? Where can crows take their eyes out, my people. It hasn't been recorded yet. Here's another example. How does this legal system work with us? Here's the best example. I will take the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia as an example. A few days ago, we received a solution - the procedure for assessing the constitutionality and legality of the Regulation on specific conditions and how imports, processing, distribution and transport of oil and oil products are suspended. Mr. Novakovic, this was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 16/01. This 01 is 2001 (President: I trust you all this, but connect me to the amendments and the additions of the law. ) Now I'm going to connect it all to thin, so it'll be very clear to you. You'll see, you know how nice. So in 2001, a procedure was launched to assess the constitutionality of the Djindjic regulation. On June 29th 2011, these dr-mr, Dragisa Slepcevic, and my Gale, Dragan Stojanovic, and Katarina, then this one, they folded the tabak to say – it is essential to talk about it today, because in the meantime, the regulations changed. If the Constitutional Court won't settle anything for ten years, I beg your pardon, what are we talking about? What is the protection that citizens can have? Is there anyone allowed to address our judiciary? He can't. Can anyone judge Sugar, Miskovic and these? He can't, people. Why? Well, half the civil servants work for these institutions. It's been bought. He can't do anything. Where's the solution? So it's a government debt. Where's another solution? They'll take credit for the corridor, but they have to launder money for social protection. You think those from the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development don't know that? They know it all, but they let you get as far in as possible, because whatever you're in that mud, they can control you more easily, manipulate you, and these four agencies -- i-i-i-i. Nice, nice, cuddly, welcome, Big Brother, Farm, etc. Regions, Mr. Novakovic, the URS. You know what Junior says? He says, incompetent government, we need a better government. Totally a man disoriented in space and time. (President: Mr. Krassic, I apologize, just from the beginning. Therefore, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. No sugar, no oil, no situation in the judiciary, but amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Thank you. ) Mr. Novakovic, I express my protest that these changes and additions are insufficient. The central problem is that our three funds are a lack of funds. I'm just talking about resources sources to cover all the holes in the pension, health care and labour market. That's where I have to tell you. From the budget, the state intervenes towards these para-state institutions and thus makes a kind of redistribution, so what they should have done to organizers of their lives who had to fulfil their obligation to the state, and that tax and obligation to these funds, which, above all, applies to their employees and beneficiaries of the right based on pension, health and unemployment insurance, do not meet their obligations and the authority, whose part you, Mr. Novakovic, too, tolerates. I took an example, if that's possible at the Constitutional Court, then why can't it be possible at the administrative, at the base, at the higher, at the Supreme Cassation? That's where you closed the circle. There's Mrs. Justice's cat, Bosko Ristic, who's bright and who's going to be the judge, who's going to be the prosecutor. So it's a closed system. An ordinary man can't move. Wherever he moves, he faces something, which is covered by the media nomination: Tucko, Shaffer, Krstic, Gilas, etc. All televisions have three people in their possession. B92, "First" – Greek; "Pink", "Avala" – "Pink". Where to move, where to tell the truth? These holidays will pass, and we will walk from place to place, from rally to rally, to explain to people why the difficult situation is, who is causing this difficult situation and why this socially responsible government, this government boasts that most of them are candidates for the Socialist International. Socialists in Europe are only in four states in power and wherever they are in power, it's a disaster. The case is Greece. Papandreou was in charge here to celebrate European values, to swear on social justice, etc. Let him go now to convince his Greeks of social justice. I warn you in advance, there are no changes that are necessary here, there are no changes. Is the solution to reduce the contribution rate for insurance, and to increase the coverage of payers? The government won't think about it. Why? Because they know what their relationship to the law is. The law is a dead letter on paper, the law is something that binds the opposition, the law does not apply to ours. It's the logic of a legal-political system directed by DOS, DS and what predicates the Socialist International. Socialists always refer to some institutions as a guarantee of something and always deceive people, social justice, etc. There's Papandreou, he cheated on a man, and now he's got a dance every day. Every day he plays on Syntagma Square – how to survive. I don't want this to happen with Serbia, and I'm warning you, our problem is how to collect the dues on mandatory contributions. Why? In order for the system to function, the system to guarantee rights to insurance companies and especially that rights users can enjoy their rights recognised by law. You don't solve it by defining volunteers, by definition of farmers, by definition of priests first, second, third, fourth, fifth class, you don't solve it by consumer price index. You don't solve any of the provisions you've changed here with a burning problem. Excuse me, please, what are we talking about? Why are you making us talk about terms? Pensions are not small because of the concepts, but because those who have to make payments have amnesty of any responsibility. Think, people, how it's possible that someone owes hundreds of millions of dinars based on contributions and taxes, the state is silent, and that way, through advertising, is no different from Dafina and Jazda. What's the difference between Dafina and the Horse? How can the state stand behind fraud? That's how the elite was international, that's how other things happen to you. Now the new variant you prepared in the government. Now they intend to sell all the special hospitals in our spas. It didn't work through the G 17 Plus Ministry, it's going to go to the government now. Then what happens? Will the man who suffered leg trauma then be able to rehabilitate in one of these spas, based on social and health insurance to go there or will he have to appear to the new owner by market principles because someone imagined our spas should be Slovenian Toplice? What you say - so, you can play with your property, and you can't play with the property that generations have created in this country. You can't play with the assets of the funds. You think if you're in power right now you can sell everything. You can't sell everything. It's forbidden. Serbia is not for sale. Sell yours, Mr. Novakovic, in your apartment. What you've earned with your own hands. What generations have earned must be done with respect. You PUPS guys think about it a little bit. Who are you supporting? How are you going to see the pensioner tomorrow? How are you doctors going to see your patients tomorrow? You think everything can be done. Then let's devalue the assembly, make it 15 MPs, no one will listen to it anymore, no one is interested in it anymore. You think the whole of Serbia is loose, so everyone falls for it – the greater the hesitant, the greater the popularity. Now we throw in water polos, throw in these, pretty as girls, etc. Guys, that doesn't work anymore. You have to protect Serbia, at every turn, by law, by all means. You serve us some gentle stories, you mean, it'll pass, it'll cover the media. Where are your reporters today? They don't care. It's not news. The messenger bit the cat. That's the news. That's what they're looking for right now. It's not news contributions. It's not news to file a report on why the holes are in the funds. To objectively look at where the holes are, where the system's mistakes and where these subjective weaknesses are, how you talked about it. Where are those who play the rules? Why can't some regulations apply to Miskovic, Bek and not order further? Why? How are they protected? What is this law on the protection of these natural beautys of Serbia? And why are they the natural beauty of Serbia? It's gone. There's been a robbery. They're having a little bit of it, but now they're in charge of all of Serbia. Boris Tadic can't write either. No one can. This poor man is just running abroad, hating to be in Serbia, to report, to face his people. It's to prepare a media scene for him about how the people worship him and love him. As long as it's a media scene, it's gonna be so hard on us. They'll get you some signatures in October, November, December, whenever, limbo of the month. He won't solve anything. He'll have to think it through. I expected you from PUPS that you, with the power of your vice president, who for years has been the chairman of the board of directors of the PIO Fund, who I know has an analysis of the movement of these funds, to come out with documentation and to say, excuse me, this is a declarative change. This doesn't satisfy us. Have you asked people who work in these institutions what is needed to collect contributions or to increase the amount based on contributions? Where's that analysis? Why doesn't the analysis follow this bill to convince us that this is exactly what is necessary to improve the system. No, I don't. You can't present this analysis. I have that analysis, I know all that data. At least I don't mind getting to it. And he won't get rid of anything. There's an increase in the hole. There is increasing uncertainty in the exercise and in the exercise of these rights. During that time, we have, so the funds are missing, and we have a labour market fund, as you now call it, it doesn't matter, you have this Dejan Jovanovic, now you're moving, not Belgrade, but will be Kragujevac. Do you know how much irrational consumption there is? Well, UBPOK there for two months to scrub, if it worked, couldn't get all the paperwork out. Here's an example, Mr. Novakovic, since I know you're a heart fighter for justice, the profession tells you that, we've talked here many times, and in connection with the Law on Mandatory Contributions, you're interpreting that part of the unemployment contribution. You see, one of your MPs, my schoolmate, his wife works at college, and she comes up with a brilliant idea, that graduate sociologists can be graduate social workers and build a program and say that the program can be realised if the labour market in Nis is to have some funds, and they can't wait to give some money. However, those at the Faculty of Philosophy say little, but students also need a thousand euros to pay and get a diploma from a graduate social worker. And they all end it, and graduate sociologists apply, listen to it end there, get diplomas, everything, etc., go to the labour market, now as graduate social workers, they can't register them like that. Why? The Ministry of Education can't imagine at all that someone had come up with the idea that -- now you're a sociologist, now you're a social worker. How's college class, courseman? So, a graduate sociologist completes a course and now he's a graduate social worker. Where is that possible, by what program? The state cheated on the students. Why do I say state? The Faculty of State, the state labour market, gave the state money, and these poor people paid with a thousand euros each. Now the state has deceived the students, Zarko Obradovic a formal-legal man right - where is the programme, so is that possible, so institutions should pass, etc. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What are these irrationalities? Or what the Labour Market Office finances self-employment, first chance, second chance, 1673th chance etc., etc. Please, Mr. Novakovic, I would like to ask you, since this is where your party cheers and dresses, to sit on the bus and head towards Lazarevec, in the centre of Stepojevac to stop at a traffic stop, on the left there is a bookshop called "Euro Chance", and across the street there is a gearbox. Whoever believes in the Euro chance to get into that casino loses money, and then has to go across the street to the exchange office, because it's a tied job, to change the euro into dinars to go back to losing those dinars. That government of ours is a euro chance. Sounds nice, but when you believe you get hurt. Euro chance, euro chance wherever we turn. Stop the people with those things. If you want something serious to change that from the foundation changes the status of the insurance company, the user, the obligor, all right, let's do it, but if you're calling us to keep you company in terms of games, don't, please, call us. This is unserious. We came here today on purpose to spend this time, to show the public what kind of manipulative methods you use, as Stevanovic said - from hollow to empty. But you have to understand, it's the wrong thing to say -- from hollow to empty. Why? Because in this operation led by the government of Cvetkovic, led by Boris Tadic, from hollow to empty, someone took a pretty good bath. You've even changed our sayings in practice. Take care, especially not to get too popular for no reason and don't brag that you can do something epochal in this area. I hope that someone will transfer these people from the Ministry, it should be work, social issues, health care, etc., not the Ministry of Finance's jurisdiction. There are some standards and some principles, principles for these three areas. Even in this change, you didn't follow those principles. The purpose of these three insurances is to ensure that those who work and who receive wages based on work, compensation, etc. are required to be provided for other purposes, that those who organise a job, are also used by those volunteers, trainees and others who are not formally legally in relation to an indefinite period of time and work, and that they suffer material, immaterial, due to this work, or in relation to this work, occupational injury, occupational illness, etc., have and that they are covered by these two very significant insurances that guarantee human life. The tendency is for every citizen to be necessarily provided with some kind of insurance for all of his life activities. In traffic it's insurance for a third party, those who don't work life insurance, those who work based on work to be insured. It's a tendency, but this system has to be unique, comprehensive, consistent, uncontraditive and most important, to apply. If it isn't applied, you've been painting for nothing. You have small, medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs, who, when they are late, get into serious problems with the existential survival of a legal person. You also have these white elephants in private property, which are protected, which are happily seen in embassies, receptions, games, etc. They advertise, they owe peacefully. Why do they owe? Who tolerates them from debt? Is this property they have their property with? Is that maybe state security property, so they're tolerated? Let's open that question. Whose property are they using? We know that this property came across these exotic islands. Not guilty or obliged to become rich. We know this is the seventh generation of tycoons. Six generations have been cleaned up. Who cleaned them up, who made them? Who decided to keep these guys alive? You see, these tycoons when they show up, who owns the capital, somewhere in London, over there, over there. How many of those companies that are owned and registered at Vienna Airport, in some warehouses, in some rooms. Is this thing run on behalf of these people, are these people the owners, or is the real deal in some safe, like in Cyprus? Why don't we open this story about Cyprus and finish it? We have the competences of the conversators – Dinkic, Velimir Ilic, Batić wrote a lot of books, lawyer Djordjevic, thank God he is still alive, this DB-ac that was there, Bogovac, he was even headed by the Anti-money Laundering Agency. Put him in charge of the Money Laundering Agency. The wolf guards the sheep. Where's that? Or we could open up a question from this bank deposit agency, a bank recovery. What do they have, what unaccompanied debt-confidential relationships we have, and they don't want to clear it up. They say -- it takes 300 years to clear that up. Let's discuss these things, see why there are minuses in these funds. If I'm out of line, Mr. Novakovic, you'll have to back off my anti-European time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57912	Thank you. (Đuro Perić, from the place: Replica. ) You can't get a word in, Mr. Peric, there's no basis, you're not even mentioned in the replica, and you're not a deputy group president either. The group was mentioned, I agree. Thank you. Since the lists of MPs are no longer signed up for the word, I am asking, before concluding a principled search, if perhaps anyone else who has not applied his right to Article 96 wants a word. No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Based on article 87, I'm setting a break until 1400 hours, when we continue to work on the next item of the agenda. Thank you for your cooperation. [[After a break.]] We begin work in the afternoon part of today's session with a joint single search on the regular annual report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2010, with the draft conclusions of the Justice and Administration Committee and the report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Matters and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2010, with a proposal for conclusions of the Committee on Culture and Information and a proposal for conclusions of the Committee on Justice and Administration. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that the President of the Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for the meeting of Ms. Nevena Petrusic, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Ms. Kosana Becker, Assistant Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Mr. Milovan Batak, Assistant Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning and Protection of Personality Data, who we welcome this occasion. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for parliamentary groups is the following: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia (G17 plus and ZZ) - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS parliamentary group Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Đuro Peric, MP group of PUPS; MP Sasa Dujovic, MP group SPS - JS; MP Zeljko Ivanji, MP group of URS (G17 plus and ZZ), and MP Zoran Krasic, MP group of SRS. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search for the annual annual report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2010, with a proposal for the Conclusions of the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information From Public Matters and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2010, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Culture and Information and a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice and Administration. Do they want the word "reporters' representatives"? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information National MP Jelena Trivan, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word is by Mr Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57914	Mr. Novakovic, it would be a shame and a shame not to discuss these reports, which is why we changed the Rules of Procedure half a year ago and established a special procedure for the National Assembly to consider the reports of various agencies, independent regulatory and other para-state authorities, for which the National Assembly passed the law and authorised them to do something in the public interest. I think it would be a good idea if we had some preliminary exposure, and since some of these applicants are already getting together, I still have to take part in the name of the SRS and explain to the public what's going on. I'd like to start with this institution that is headed by Mr. Sabic. There is no doubt that there is an interest in the public, for citizens to get information about what the state authorities are doing, how they do, how they enforce the law. This can be seen from different angles, not only the law enforcement but also the attitude of state authorities to citizens, to legal persons, what these relations are, what happens, but we can essentially say that these two laws and these two trustees institutions are primarily in the function of controlling the executive functions of the government and of everything the government heads up. Some say we had to do it because we're headlong towards the EU, so that's the standard there. As standard as it is, as far as it's not, I wouldn't get into it, because we're not talking about those laws, we're talking about a work report. What can we not forget when considering the report? We must not forget that those who have proposed these two laws, who have sworn to those two institutions, who have boasted that the education of these institutions has fulfilled some other conditions, actually blocked those institutions at first. Just to remind, probably 200 information exists in the media where Mr. Sabic and all these other para-state organisations, and the Civilian and DRI Protector, etc., informed the public that the government as the most important state body in the executive government does not show much interest in the functioning of these institutions, starting with the premises and beyond. Then he had a situation where someone boasted that he had created an institution, that he had formed an institution, that he had made it possible for the institution to be made, that the institution should be a blessing to all citizens, and then we see in practice that they are stifling those institutions. In the meantime, the Commissioner for Information has resolved his, if I may say so, business space issue, and for equality he remains in the old National Assembly building with modest capacities, etc. As much as we have had a principled problem with this law on equality because it is unnecessary to single out as a special area in relation to what is the original jurisdiction of the Protector of Citizens, with this institution headed by Mr. Sabic, the situation is completely different. It should be possible for everyone in the public to come up with the information that is needed, who is interested in someone. The report includes data on how many times the institution had to intervene with state, parastate and other bodies and organisations, warning them that they had to supply data at the request of the interested party. Thanks to this law that may not have been completed by a large number, both journalists and other interested parties were more or less successful in some process of material information. If we look at the information that has been made under this procedure and this law, and with the help of the Commissioners, we have to realize that we are being written in black because the government as a central authority is rather avoiding reporting its work. That now does not turn out to be some EPP commercial for Mr. Sabic, but in several cases, not just a few, but many cases, had to intervene sharply through the media, to warn the ministers, government and other institutions that they could not have such a ignoring relationship with a law that was passed in the National Assembly. Thanks to that, I have to say what our experience is, the experience of the SRS. You see for yourself in this list of "Great Serbia", a little, little bit, so the official data provided under this law on the availability of information is published. In several cases, Mr. Sabic too had to intervene, since he is a second-degree organ in this process. Then we come up with some really amazing data. Why the amazing data? In your regular procedure, you contact the competent authority, ask for some information. Either they give you, or they don't give you any information, which is oral, which is written. When you're looking under this law, where there's a form, you get quite different data. If, under the provisions of this law, you contact a senior authority, which controls or has records of what the lower authority is doing, then you get third information. I'll show you on a case like this. Someone tried to steal our party, so they made a special new party, so they stole our mandates, etc. You know for a fact that local self-government funds all political parties in proportion to the number of committees. We had about 20 and a few councilmen in Rakovica, and we asked to see how long it took to get them to us by that number. They say everything's fine. This is the president of the municipality - we respect the law as much as possible. We ask – how much is that? He says it doesn't matter how much we respect the law. When under this law we asked the Treasury Authority to officially provide us with a list of these payments, everything was completely different. What belongs to us, they gave these, pro-European. Of course, it's easy for us now, and we can, on the basis of official documentation, sue, and criminally, and litigally, etc. So, if there was no law like this, he has his own shortcomings and I don't want to talk about it now, but the minimum possibilities of this law have allowed us to know what's going on. Based on this law and these minimum possibilities, I don't want to tell you what we found out about public procurement. It's wound cancer, I must say, the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. Then no wonder that the value of all public procurement means what must be done under the law about public procurement is approximately four billion euros, and 20% ends and there is no justification, there is no paper for other things. Excuse me, 800 million euros. 800 million euros. In this way, we can somehow exercise control, even with the very fact that we're going to get information. But according to this report on the work of the trustees, we see that the main conclusion is that the government is quite blocking the application of this law. Ways, modulate how to execute that blockade, it's too rich and I have to tell you. He's coming up with all kinds of ways to do it. One of the good things is that on the website of each of these institutions you have a pattern, a procedure for how you can get that data. There is also a more or less successful job informer, which also helps to obtain some information, but it is all internal. What do you say? I write in myself. I think this is important to say, regardless of the lack of the law and regardless of the kind of depravity of this system, because yet, the trustee cannot go from the local community to the NBS indefinitely. There are some other ITD auxiliary institutions. For this report, it is important for the National Assembly to get acquainted with the very important fact that what is the government is quite blocking the possibility of citizens and the public, as well as interested people to get the right and correct data. It's blocking. Today in this debate, on this report, in my opinion, we would have to draw one conclusion where we ask the Government to warn, inform, order all the authorities under that cap called the Government, to make it much more zealous, more efficient to provide access to important information, whose needs are shown by interest in other institutions, both citizens, and natural and legal persons. I think that's enough for this first report and a plenary review of the report on the work of the trustees. As for Ms. Nevena Petrusic, since she is also a trustee, there are many things in common. However, I must conclude that, at some point, it goes beyond the scope of this law, especially in some of its public appearances. She's going outside the scope of this law. I must say, I believe that its law and its function are absolutely unnecessary, because it is fundamentally within the protection of the citizens of Sasa Jankovic. This is all a ban on discrimination. And the protection of citizens is working to prevent discrimination, to ensure equality, political equality for all citizens. It is simple for these constitutional principles of equality and equality to be respected. Now, when this gets away with what Mrs. Petrusic is given as a special area, then it is to meet some of the exhibitionist needs of some groups or something. In practice, it is simple and impossible for it to function as an independent, because it is part of a broader issue – to protect human rights of citizens. Its service will likely be faced with this problem, as many details intertwine that jurisdiction, and the job of protectors of citizens and trustees of equality. It's gonna get tangled up. It's impossible to separate them. As the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs intertwines, these jobs are simply intertwined. It should be in one place, not destroyed and separated. I'm just afraid because of this, that law allows free interpretation of everything and everything. I'm not willing to go into any details and jurisdiction of that trustee, from the point of view of that law, because it's a trap topic and I have to tell you that. Why is it a trap topic? Because basically her interventions should be the security of equality and where we are at birth unequal. It's a good thing we're not equal. At the state level, we're talking, in a political sense, about equality. We're not talking about some other kind of equality that's impossible to provide. That's why I'm telling you it's a broad topic. It is so wide that you can criticize even the situation, that 60, 70 or 80% of the people who work in the judiciary are women, as you can also criticise the situation that 99% of men are drivers – urban traffic, etc. As soon as you get into that subject, everyone's right and nobody's right. It's a rhetorical subject and a hypothetical question, which sucks. It can be devalued, and I'm talking about it, as much as it can be devalued, and depending on some interested group, someone pulls out the whole law and some jurisdiction and pulls out some media story that sounds nice in the media, and these marginals can't wait for it to show up. With this marginal they can't wait to show up, these marginal groups they prefer it. You know, I told you a little while ago, there's male beauty and female beauty. A man's beauty is that he's rough, he's pretty, and when a woman's a beautiful man, he can go to the billboards, pretty, pretty as a girl. You know, I need to make you laugh a little bit to see how pointless it is to bring everything into the National Assembly, and you know how pointless all this is when it's supposed to be applied in practice. It's a disaster, you can look out for the unresolved housing issue of a lady who works at a school to ask as well as the question of gender equality. You can, in one situation it will be discussed under that regulation, and in another situation it has to be said, I'm sorry, we're not in charge of having to refer to the court. It's so pointless, so the whole law is pointless. Then you can't expect some spectacular results and of course the report from point to point offers different solutions and different conclusions, that's what this is about. I'm saying, it's a good thing we can look at those reports in the tide, until a few months ago, it wasn't even possible, but all the reports were closed at the meetings of some of the committees in charge. I'm glad we have a few of those reports at this meeting, and why am I glad? Because I want to remind you that a year and a half ago we asked the National Assembly to consider, for example, the first report of the DRI and then, not Mr Novakovic, but Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, they did not meet business conditions, and we called on the DRI Act, etc. They're waiting for the Finance Committee. They can't do that on the agenda. We asked it to be classified as a special point, it can't go to the agenda. Now it can go to the agenda, and in the meantime nothing's changed, nothing's really changed. It has been amended by the Rules of Procedure, but what has been changed in the Rules of Procedure has been followed by some practice that existed, so that a change in the Rules of Procedure which means accepting some practice is not essentially a change in that Rules of Procedure. For these discussions, these reports of ours would be good, and I think even in the Rules of Procedure, there is also a commitment, Mr. Novakovic, given one well-octrossed view that these creditors can be present here, etc. That representatives of the committees, who have practically initiated this debate, are present in the O.R. and that at least decoratively turn ten minutes after one report, according to the second report, to make an appropriate introduction to this topic, announce the subject, to tell what is the conclusion of their committee, because it is an integral part of this point, because if it is not there then we can really talk about some free compositions that do not bind anyone. If the debate on the reports of the state authorities should be a debate without any obligation, then please, there's no need to put all this on the agenda. So, some conclusions must be drawn, and after this debate, it must be something binding, both for the trustee and for the government, and for the other authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57915	Thank you. I could agree with you on the conclusions you've made. I give the word to Mr Saša Dujovic, the authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57916	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished colleagues, representatives, who are thinking how to start talking on this topic today, simply the fact was that when I read these two reports on the agenda today, that maybe there's nothing to say, that maybe everything is said in the reports themselves, that there's a lot being said in the public. However, it is not quite so, and from this point on, I still felt the obligation to first appear before the citizens of Serbia and then before fellow Members, and also before you respected creditors, I say something first as president of the Committee on Presentations and Proposals of the Serbian Assembly which have been in the past year and a half, since it has worked in this conference, I am simply faced with a number of proposals that you yourself have been faced with in your work. Somehow citizens feel the need to address both you and the protector and all independent bodies, but then also the Assembly and the Government, etc. As it usually happens, we all listen to them, talk, but very little we can do to help them in concrete ways. Then, of course, I look at your report by the Commissioner on information of public importance and protection of personal data and make sure that the same problem arises in this direction. There is a problem when we, on the needs of citizens or more citizens, react to the institutions of the executive authorities and we come across walls to a large extent. Sometimes these walls are bridging, easy, but in many cases they're insurmountable to us. Some officials give themselves the right to simply ignore the problems facing citizens, to ignore the ways in which citizens express their problems and then bring the entire institution of the state one question, does the state even work? Of course, wanting to help ourselves and the citizens, we have chosen and adopted the proposals that you have appointed us as independent regulatory bodies, as representatives, as independent representatives who must be completely independent. In order to say this, "not by the grandmother or by the uncles", they judge what the problem is and what the citizens encounter when they bring up something called – their problem. Your reports clearly show that you have defined a series of activities, I am seeing a lot of three and a half thousand cases you have received and a large number of processed, forwarded to state institutions, individuals, ministries, agencies, etc., etc. A large number of them have also given some answers to what they are faced with, whether there may be some data, perhaps not comprehensive, but in any case the question remains again, at least we have people on the board who have passed all of you, by Mr Jankovic, etc. Who eventually turn to us because they haven't solved what's called the problem they started working with. Of course, you're your part of what you've been told to do, you've done your part. You are extremely available to the public in terms of making a statement on individual cases, generally participating in panel discussions, round tables and everything that concerns precisely the matter you represent, Mr. Saric. On that side, I wouldn't really have anything special and epic, either to tell you or to add, but I'm taking the right to put a grudge on you, I'm going to call it a rejection, maybe it's not a rejection, simply not a response to the Committee on Definitions and Proposals, to put together some activity in the interests of citizens. We've invited all independent and regulatory bodies. You're the only one who refused. I take it you've been prevented, I take it you haven't been able to respond, but we haven't made that contact yet, but in any case we'll continue to walk towards you and go to your body exactly the way we've been going so far, and that's that all we have from your body's work domain is what we're supposed to forward to you or you to the Assembly Committee. As for the annual report of the trustees for the protection of equality, the report simply contains really a lot of data, basically, the recapitulation of the work of the trustees, is simply described as a complete, complete problem since the creation itself, from the offices that have long, long been a problem for work where citizens could not come, could not report. Where we found ways to bridge the lower building and now more objectively that it could be more specific about work. Mr Krasic said a lot earlier and made remarks to the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. But the problem he's facing in this segment and this report isn't quite figured out, there's a lot of things set up this is just, so a little rougher like that put in the report, a lot of things left behind. Discrimination is something that really still exists in our society, and it exists on a large scale. We all need to work together to ensure that this discrimination is simply no longer present, or at least to be present as much as it is tolerable for all countries or for all societies of the world. I'm going to set an example of discrimination, of classical discrimination, where simply no one can help, and that's taking the stand of the judicial authorities. The judicial authorities are independent and, indeed, none of us need to interfere. However, you have discrimination in the right sense of that word when in a group of people you judge on this same basis, you judge judgments, and then suddenly, with the Court of Cassation's position, it just cuts and no longer judges on the same basis. It is a kind of discrimination, it is a big problem and this problem will be solved in international judicial authorities in the coming period. It leaves a bitter taste that neither the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, nor us as a Assembly, nor any executive or legislative body has been able to resolve something that, that is, someone's position, one's position, that takes the right to discriminate against the citizens of Serbia, in such a harshest way. There's a lot more to be done in this society. It is necessary to reject a lot of prejudice with which we are all a set as a society and as individuals covered. It's not just that the transition itself is going to change in a way that we think we're right, we have to see when we're wrong. All of this is not so easy, and I know that your problem is most focused on executive organs, that executive bodies, like us in the Assembly, are simply often ignored by the fact that something is asked of them. They put it aside and let it go for a while, and the problems are getting bigger and bigger. Of course, in terms of the reports themselves, there is nothing special to add, you can see one great savings in the budget of these two today's subjects, that you are almost 50% of the projected budget for the past year, and that is, in any case, commendable, which probably required an even greater effort from your and your associates to make as much effort as possible on so many cases as possible, to solve them, but not to spend all the money. It's for a big commendation. The same is true of the Trustee of Equality, and in this sense we all need to act both by Parliament and independent bodies, but also by the executive bodies of the Serbian Government, which will in any case bring drastic savings in the budget, to the savings of funds that we may be able to direct to those citizens who have turned to the help they have, whether it is based on obtaining information or on some discrimination. All in all, our policy of the European path, our tendencies and our aspirations to bring our society after two decades of what we've all been through together as negative situations, simply to become one well-inflicted, first of all, human society and to turn around and go forward together. Of course, the parliamentary club will support this report in any case and will not make any drastic remarks. It remains a bitter taste, I say, that we should work a little closer together either as independent regulatory bodies or as the highest authority and legislative bodies and committees, as the highest legislative body. When it comes to executive bodies, especially low-intensity, which is where I think about the directors of various agencies who really took on a great deal of authority in those agencies, as if they had left it in their inheritance, not that they were tasked with working in the interests of the citizens. We have various directors of the agencies who ended up in courts, they're still being prosecuted, and some of them are in prison, etc. We all have to become one of those people's consciences together that we work together in the interest of citizens. In that sense, we will support the report. We hope for better co-operation and we believe that we will all contribute together to making Serbia and citizens feel better about some European pathway and fighting for the rights of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57917	I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search, the application for a word, in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I give my word to the People's MP to Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57918	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, here on the agenda for the extraordinary session of the National Assembly are reports on the work of individual bodies. Today we are talking about the regular annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2010 and the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information From Public Meaning and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2010. The DRI report, the Anti-Corruption Agency, etc. will be discussed tomorrow. Today I'm going to say something about the report submitted by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. As the report itself says, this is the first Report of the Trustees, as the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality was established by the adoption of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination in 2009. During the debate on the SRS law, the position was that we really do not see the problem of respecting the principle of equal rights and obligations guaranteed by the Constitution being realized within the existing state body. Of course, regardless of what we said then, the ruling structure established this body and on 5 May last year the Trustee was elected, so this report, which is before us today, refers to the period from 5 May to the end of 2010. Given that this body exists and that its resources are defined from the RS budget, so we do a little bit of an analysis as to what's in the report and what's in it. What is dominated by the report at the very beginning is the working conditions for which the Reporter finds them inadequate. First, it expresses dissatisfaction with the rooms and then with the number of employees. According to the report, the Trustee’s Professional Service employs one person and four persons work under the contract. We see later that 15 other associates have been hired, that a competition has been called to fill eight jobs in the Professional Service, that it is prescribed that the Commissioner has two assistants, today the two of them are with us, etc. Then, we have a part that speaks about the state of play and the protection of equality, where it says that the Republic of Serbia attaches great importance to the repression of discrimination and the achievement of equality and seeks to respect and apply the most international and European standards in this area and that it has circled the national anti-discrimination normative framework, adopted and made part of its legislation the most important agreements. Now it's good to analyze the part about what the effects of all of this are in practice, although we all know together what our daily life is like. Now I may repeat some of the things that I put out today in the morning part of the session, and they talk about how the competent authorities are directly discriminating certain groups through the adoption of certain laws. I'll take the order given in this report, gender-based discrimination. The report says it is one of the most widespread, widespread aspects of discrimination. Reporter says research shows women are in a more unfavourable position than men in all areas of social life. Negative consequences, structural and indirect discrimination against women, are evident in all areas of social life, especially the following. Discrimination of women in the domain of participation in decision-making, discrimination against women in the economic sphere and education, gender-based violence and gender inequality in the media. Discrimination of women is also evident in the economic sphere. The unemployment rate of women is half the rate of male unemployment. The pay gap between men and women is 15%, and the share of women owned by registered facilities is 29.7%. Women participate with 30.5% in management posts in society and businesses, with 20.8% in directorial posts, while at the head of boards with 14.3%. Especially high is the level of economic inequality resulting from multiple discrimination, for example women refugees are 15% more unemployed, displaced persons by 32%, while Roma women are 39% compared to the overall unemployment rate of women. It would be good for all of this to be heard by the legislator of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, who proposed provisions that are unfavourable for single-working mothers. I have already said today that, the data provided by the Union employer says that nearly 5,000 of these mothers have faced the problem of having to pay double for them when they go to maternity leave, the absence from work for the care of the child and the absence from work for the care of the child, and in the event that the activity is entrusted to the authorised manager, that the business or company will continue to work. One woman is expected to run her own company, give birth and care to children, and thus cannot exercise the rights guaranteed when going to sick leave, and Serbia's birth in a constant decline. This is when I call on the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Mrs Petrusic, who unfortunately is not present today in the National Assembly, to state his position on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance on Articles 14 and 11. You can also see this as a parliamentary question, and if the Rules of Procedure fails to respond, then I will take advantage of some other parliamentary options, when MPs have the right to ask questions to individual institutions and I will repeat it once more. The next part refers to discrimination based on nationality. Here the Roma population is singled out, as the most frequently discriminated group, and as one of the problems is highlighted by the problem of personal documents, which Roma are forced to move with KIM. I have to say, it's a general problem, not just members of the Roma population, but all of them. The next paragraph refers to discrimination based on sexual orientation. I'm going to briefly repeat that everyone is free to organise their personal life in their own way, but the problem is that the increasing presence of over-promotion of the intimate people is that we in the SRS find it unwarranted. The next form of discrimination based on disability. Is there anything else to add to what I also spoke about in the afternoon session? For days people with disabilities protest in front of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and the Belgrade City Assembly seeking to address the DES problem of a 52% employee company, 52% are persons with disabilities. They haven't been paid 32 bucks, and former leadership is under investigation. They are all parents who need to protect and educate their children, and there is a possibility that another 30% of people with disabilities are employed in the DES. Also, I'm asking the trustee for an opinion on Article 10 on this occasion. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which deprives already established privileges for persons with disabilities. The SRS MPs' club believes it is not necessary to put an end to it, as there is still a great deal of effort in Serbia to improve and facilitate the life of people with disabilities. One of the most efficient ways is economic nature, of course, when these people are being strengthened economically, that is a direct prerequisite, so that is the basis for making it easier for them to be available and to treat and participate in all other forms of social life. I think it is irrefutable to talk about the protection of human rights and the adoption of various declarations and to respect the rules and to install into our legislation and to potential equality, when here in the National Assembly, and at the proposal of the Government, the laws of which are purely discriminatory. Only the law we talked about today in the afternoon is discriminated against by two groups: women, mothers who deal with private entrepreneurship and people with disabilities, and we all saw well what it says in the official report of the trustees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57919	Thank you. I give the word to the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57920	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in my presentation, I will mostly refer to this report on the implementation of the law on free access to information of public importance and the report on the application of the Data Protection Act. Mr. Sabic, mostly all my criticism, possibly, which will be sent directly or in some way directly to this report is actually principled, in a way and institutional nature. So, all this criticism will not be directed to you and your associates, but it will be directed to those centres of power, those centres that need to enable you to implement, first of all, the Constitution of Serbia, and second of the Law on Access to Information of Public Meaning, as well as the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. Therefore, criticism will mainly be directed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which gives you or at least should give you frameworks for implementing these laws and full logistics, and not only logistically, but also any other support for the implementation of these laws. I can tell right now that this government's fault is about what I said the biggest. I'd say it's even the only fault of this government. Why is it exclusive? Because everyone else is missing out, all other possible failures that can arise in the end can in some way correct through the individual responsibility of individual participants in this business. But the guilt of this government, and I'm going to talk about it through concrete data, and through concrete things, is actually one fault that can be corrected in one of two ways, which is, and they're both painless, leaving a government or changing this government. So, since both ways are part of it, it remains in the government, to decide which way to apply it. A fundamental question arises, but a very important question, who is really who is guarding it, and who is using it and who is processing it, about our lives on the lives of our families. Is there enough protection we can guarantee right now? I'm going to say something about this expansion of self-indulgence and violence against person and family. The organizer, therefore, is the promoter of this insurgency, of the human personality and of the family in general, and that's the so-called. The world order is what, I'm sure, which is what you face every day in your business, because these organizers have their promoters in all countries, in all governments. Their goal is to create one and only world government, in which only one thing will be dominant, and that is to turn man into an economic, consumer animal and nothing more. There's no personality, no personality protection, no family protection, nothing else. So the promoters of this new world order kill, in fact, in that person everything that is national, everything that is traditional, everything that is family and, in one word, everything that is personal. I'm not sure that a trustee in his job can fully achieve what the positive legal regulations require him to do. It seems to me that in many cases your struggle is, in fact, a struggle with the windmills. In this fight, in which EU representatives who both hands and feet are committed to coming to the EU allegedly, the area of protection of personality rights is limited to, as far as I know, an international treaty, or the 1981 Convention. So it's so-called. The 1981 Convention on the Protection of Individuals. So much about how this protection, which in some ways is being promoted by the EU, can in fact be a real example of how to protect personalities in our country, how to protect our privacy, how to protect the privacy of our family and every person in this country at all. The goal and these criticisms is that citizens are fully aware of in some way that the kind of data on their personality is being collected, as well as that they are aware that certain things, possibly, accept it consciously. I'm going to say something, and you've looked back a few times, Mr. Shabic, on the relationship between banks and clients. The trustee, I'm sure, went into a lot of trouble and got to know the problems. However, I have read somewhere that, in your opinion, the basic problems in this area and the most serious problems are those concerning religious and political data, which banks take from their clients when processing their credit agreements, possibly, etc. However, there are other equally important and significant data that banks take from clients, which I am sure are contrary to both our Constitution and the positive legal regulations. One simple question arises – what is the relationship between banks and their clients? Of course, in light of this problem we're talking about. In order for a man to reach his goal in this relationship with the bank, mainly to obtain the loan he seeks, he is simply forced to give the bank all the information she asks for - when he was born, where he was born, which was born, who was his wife and mother-in-law, which is his maiden name, which is religion, which is political belongings, etc. What's going on? Instead of using the system institutions, e.g. Through your institution, to provide better protection for these people as clients of banks, what does the state do? Here, for example, the Government is proposing, and the majority of parliament are laying down regulations that, in fact, protect these banks in the right way and again, or those creditors, rather than citizens. He's laying down regulations that will further tie his hands to you as your trustee. It provides for private contractors who can re-engage third private persons to collect the debt. So, what do you want to get? It is allowed that those who were previously, so to speak, in hoods now take the same off, because they will actually have institutional protection for so-called. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sure your hands will be tied even more than they've ever been. Why? Put yourself on, Mr. Shabic, as a confidant in relation to these regulations with the personal protection regulations that you are carrying out. Will the one who has legally removed the hood, whom this state has provided through the regulations it has brought in this assembly, take care of the protection of the clients of these banks? Will he who is practically a debt collector take care of the person who owes the bank? He doesn't care about personal protection. He cares about someone's privacy, the constitution that guarantees that privacy and the laws that guarantee that privacy. Its primary goal will be to collect the money, to collect the money that the martyr owes. If he doesn't have a chance to pay that debt, here's our law breach again, here's something that will be absolutely hidden from your eyes. As long as you're able and wanted to take it out for a cleanup, you won't be able to. Furthermore, I will also refer to the number of items that the Trustee has for information's name. I think you've recently stated that there's about 2,000 data in the processing. Is that right? It's like every month there's about 400 data. I am already the number for such a short time of these items telling us which situation Serbia is in and where it is on, to say the European scale that is so often mentioned, and it looks again at the bottom, as in many other occasions that are given indicators. So the number of those who address the trustee is the fact that in this area, the situation is really alarming, as well as in many other areas. I'm not saying this area is an exception to other areas. If you have 2,000 items and another 400 items each month, it shows us where Serbia is now when protection of personal data is specifically concerned, or where Serbia is in fact in terms of protecting its citizens – at the bottom of the scale. Furthermore, I will say a few words about corruption and public procurement in light of these regulations that you mention in your report. When it comes to this area in the light of data protection and trustee not necessarily finds that it is a major problem in denying information on different forms of public good, especially when it comes to public procurement and the availability of money. So there's an impression, and that's justifiably, wherever the money is, there's a taboo topic. That seems to be the standard of this government. That is why it is no wonder, for example, that Serbia is a country in which four or five people control 200,000 hectares of the most fertile Vojvodina country. Why? Well, it was a taboo topic in some periods, and we just didn't, and neither could you as a trustee, be able to get some information. What happened? There was a situation that the combined agriculturals were sold mainly after Vojvodina and the country was sold alongside the combined ones. To make the accident bigger, the country was sold to foreigners, which, according to the country's positive legal regulations, is not allowed. Now look where Serbia will find itself because in some period we could not get the right and relevant information about what is being done in this country. Simply, I think it's a scenario that's not good at all, especially for the citizens of Serbia. This is information and information that needs to be deeply concerned. I'll just say one more thing that you mentioned a few times, and it's about certain data protection when it comes to organ donation and data protection to blood donors. On the one hand, this government is appealing to all its citizens to give blood and get a donor card, so try tomorrow someone whose organs need saving their lives. Basically, that's good, and I really don't think there's anything that doesn't basically support ideas like this. But what you've concluded, too, is that this area has a lot of taboo issues, too. Something's wrong here, something's not good. I think you said in one place that you or your associates have tried in this area and these three institutions dealing with issuing donor cards for organ donors that you've done some control and that you've realized that the situation in this area is not good at all. The situation is not good, I think, as you said, because there is one, I will feel free to interpret what you said, a certain discrepancy between these institutions and the health ministry. That's how I understood it. The health ministry has not passed any other sublegal regulations that will, in a better, more adequate and more comprehensive way, ensure that protection of these blood donors and then these organ donors is possible. So it's been determined that they're not maximum-protected, and they'd have to be. You know as well as we do. Their personality, their integrity, must absolutely enjoy protection. And there's no excuse when it's said it's not because they haven't passed any sublegal regulations or what I know. And who's supposed to bring those regulations? Just get them to come up with those regulations. Make public those who didn't bring those regulations. So that discrepancy should be lifted. Because you can't expect someone to willingly accept that in the event of a brain death, they donate their organs to save someone's lives without protecting his personal integrity or personality or the integrity of his family. There really is an urgent need to take the most serious steps if this country is thinking the right way to do this. If there's something else going on behind this, then it's clear what's going on. I think there's really a lot of problems in this area, and that's what you've been saying. It's up to you, because you're the first among those who need to mark those problems, who need to point out these problems, and we're here, no matter what the opposition is, to support what's good but also fiercely to criticise everything that's wrong in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57921	Thank you. As last reported, Mr. Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57922	I won't be long. You'll have to run into the EU and I'll buy you a treat. Mr. Novakovic, for this part of our debate today, I took the Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2010. For the sake of the public and these colleagues who didn't take it from home, and I know that everyone read, if they were kidding, I have to draw attention to you that what Mrs Petrusic wrote has a total of 66 pages. Officially, the report can only be these texts from pages 25 to 52. This second is the spending of paper, and it is to be compensated for the damage, for it unwarrantedly caused the cost of the National Assembly. Let's get in line. I don't know why this report should be – legal status, jurisdiction, the conduct of trustees, co-operation, reporting, establishment, security of working conditions, the situation in achieving the protection of equality, the documents are listed here, etc.? I don't know why it could be co-operation, international, and with state authorities, well with the media, so media coverage? It is completely unnecessary and comes out of the report on what the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality was doing in 2010. That's the first one. Are you listening to me, Mr. Novakovic? I must warn you to listen to me, not to take my notice and say I'm out of the picture. So please listen to me. On page 20, you who forgot this document at home, I have to tell you that there is something that is completely unacceptable. With what right is the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality called for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU? What does this agreement have to do with equality? You see, I'm taking you back to September 2008, when we were against that agreement. You see that this agreement in all of society's pores, in all areas, and equality, and economies, and co-operation, etc., and I do not know what law it calls for a report from the European Commission on Serbia's 2008 and 2010 progress? How can this be the legal basis for the Commissioner's report? It's a completely non-binding document. It's a European Commission document that we're being pressured by, watching as they take KIM from us, how to break Serbia to Dorcool. How does Neven call on this? I think one of the conclusions should be that in the future you don't beat empty straw on these documents, because this is paper that costs. Furthermore, Mr. Novakovic, attention must be paid to the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, I quote, page 31, a call to the Fuss Note: "We have no surrender, no surrender, no report on the state of human rights of LGBT in Serbia in 2009. Who are they? How can they be the creators of the opinion of the competent state authority? Explain to me, please. The informal group gathers from the street and now dictates Mirko Cvetkovic's opinion on what should be his state view. Excuse me, that's totally unacceptable. I'd like to take her notice for this, just so you know. Page 33, you who have forgotten, when you go home necessarily turn the 33rd page - the data source, the US Foreign Ministry, the Annual Report on International Religious Freedoms in 2010. How can some ministry over the bar know better what's going on in Serbia than we do? Nevena still accepts their position, and that attitude obliges her to understand what they were doing in her report. Or an interrogation of "Strategic Marketing"? What does "Strategic Marketing" have to do with what the trustee did? I hope the trustee wasn't working on his research. It's just amazing. I don't know how these bodies of ours could have gone through. Mr. Novakovic, let me tell you, we in the Committee on Finance when we consider these reports from the competent state authorities, all those who report to us cannot refer to a foreign document or what the newspaper "Kurr", "Politics", "Plas Public", "Alo" etc., this is unserious. By writing like this, the Commissioner admits that he has no opinion but must quote someone else. In politics, the worst are those people who quote other people's opinions in every third sentence, whether it's Bodler, Dostoyevsky, Einstein, etc. Why do we have government officials who don't have their opinions, who boast that they go by reading the newspaper? It's a disaster. I was planning on saying this at first, but I can see that you won't answer because you want to go on vacation as soon as possible, so I said I'd make your vacation worse with one serious review. How can this, or should we resolve it or put this law out of force? We have no use for this law. Now let me read you what might be the matter of the work report. He says this, 3.2. – description of the situation in achieving and protecting equality, gender discrimination. I don't want to read what's written, because a lot of things are wrong. There is no better example of gender-based discrimination, which is employment. Come on entrepreneurs, small businessmen, but state authorities, state-owned companies, municipal public enterprises of local importance, where party directors appear, I don't need to convince you, I guess that's understood. If a female child is to be employed, she must in some way guarantee that she will not be pregnant for several years. In our country, we go from minus infinite to plus infinite. I've got Mile Jelic here, so he made me an association. While Mile Jelic and I were students was an attraction in the Nis Machine Industry, 40 women received to work on the crane, none worked on the crane, of course, were women directors etc. Now it has gone to another extreme, it has to be guaranteed that it will not become pregnant or that it will not marry or will not be away from the sex because it needs to be used in the workplace. Where's our Neven to go after companies, to stop it? She's gone. She's reading the State Department's reports, and that's Mrs. Hillary Clinton now. What does Hilary Clinton have to read? What can Hillary Clinton write nicely about Serbia? Or read these reports, as they're called, I don't know, those who are too proud. What can they write? The proud can only write what suffers that are not in normal relationships, married and communicative, etc. Of course everything bothers them, and they'll always get in the way. Let's move on. It doesn't matter here, simply to write one theoretical paper, to cover 39.3 million dinars, though, they only spent 19.1. At least they were honest, so they showed that they didn't want all the money to be spent because they couldn't justify it. Discrimination based on nationality. As this is written here, I won't tell you, but if this trustee of ours for the protection of equality works in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, then there is no location with a higher degree of discrimination than KIM. What did she do to end this discrimination there? She didn't have to go to Bogdanovic, this Minister of Thaci's for KIM. She had to talk to the UN, because the UN is governors. Did she make contact? It's not. Why? She can't, she doesn't care. Between us, Mr. Novakovic, I really feel discriminated against on that basis here in Belgrade. Wherever you turn Latin, foreign names, foreign programs. Whatever TV you turn – backstage, staging, and, out, everything sucks. Here, and Mr. Sabic and I feel like a national minority in downtown Belgrade, all the foreigners around us. The traditional thing that you and I have been trained for is being destroyed. We have to intervene in some way. Nevena was a very good student at my university, but she broke these watermelons, you know. How she started hanging out with them all went into the car. Don't worry, that's what I say to her face, so there's no problem. Discrimination based on sexual orientation, that's not clear to me, that's what I have to tell you. I don't know how Mr. Novakovic knows the sexual orientation of any MP. It's not in the MP section. Isn't that right, Mr. Novakovic? Nobody's making us talk about sexual orientation yet. However, there are great abuses here, one Puritan, traditional, classical society, which applies to Serbian society, which is characterized by what our children love and when they are 35 years old, so we do not do them very well, but we love our children, our family. It's broken down with these topics, writings, etc. I'm gonna stop there, I'm just gonna say I'm against any kind of violence. There is no need for any violence in Serbia to exist. However, a measure should be found. There can't be much potential that doesn't deserve that much attention. But they're very active and they often change partners, etc., so there's this reason why they're so active. But I don't know why they're so kind, people just get scared when they show up. You don't need to be afraid. All it takes is the truth to be told and the problem is solved. Discrimination based on disability, I have to tell you that this is the most dangerous kind of discrimination, because we no longer have rules like we used to have, so it was known to be – the one who's weak-sighted, telephoned, secure place. Unfortunately, the material possibilities are so weak that this group is threatened and their threat does not depend on the state's activity. No matter how many countries that match their material opportunities to intervene, that's essentially not enough. That's the problem, but I don't think it should even be the jurisdiction of this. Religious discrimination. I have to draw your attention that religiously, if I can use the word orientation, is an individual thing for every single person. Here in religious discrimination, much more hits the clergy and traditional churches and religious communities, and even in the part where religious dogma is promoted, which is the obligation of priests. We have a paradoxical situation here. There's something that's religious dogma, something that's the basis for preaching. Here we have a civil society that criticises the dogma. That's what I said at the beginning to get out of the box. This means something like this: a priest can read some gospel or read something in the Old Testament, a New Testament, and then a group of free-minded citizens' initiatives comes out and they say, "Oh, that's hate speech." Then these B92s, when they pump it up, turns out the bishop doesn't know the canon rules, doesn't know the liturgy, doesn't know anything. It's this thin border that civil society simply imposes. It probably comes from some Protestant vision of life – as rich as I am in this life, I will be so rich in that other life, my position today as living allows me to know how it will be in that afterlife, take everything that life gives you, it is important to be in a better position than today, grab, take. It is a school of individualism that can never be frozen in Serbia. When this ideology starts in Serbia, there is a drying. That's about when you want to put bananas on the oak, so there won't be bananas or oak, but it'll dry. The sooner you realize that you promoters of this kind of perspective on life, the easier it will be for you and everyone in Serbia. "And discrimination on other grounds." On other grounds, there can be discrimination in any form. The bed of discrimination is the National Assembly. Mr. Novakovic, let me explain this professionally. I file the amendment, and then in the hallway, you all wait for me and say, "You're great at the amendment." When the time comes to vote, you all vote against the amendment. You discriminate against me on a political basis. No, no, on a political basis, you're discriminating me. On the basis of political discrimination, you have also had the theft of mandates and the amendment of the Law on the selection of MPs and the new Law on the financing of political activities, etc. Why? Because we are the only fighters against this suicide route to the European Union and the NATO Pact. It will come to the agenda and some other topics, so only Serbian Radical Party MPs are reportedly proposing to withdraw their mandate. However, that is progress, earlier it was a helicopter, so Desimir Tosic, so Zarko Jokanovic, and so on. The helicopter comes and is allegedly made, the majority of the Administrative Board, to remove the mandate of Vojislav Seselj, who is in Gjilan, because the first judge did not want to condemn him, and then when his mandate is lifted, then the changed judge will get three months in prison. This is where this kind of discrimination is shown. When I'm constructively talking about some bill, you interrupt me, then you kill me one warning, another warning. Why? Because you're not used to the soft tones of my exposure, and some fear that His Majesty, the President of the Republic, is not nervous, because I'm informing the public about what's going on. This kind of discrimination and the kind of violence in the Assembly gives for rights and streets and schools and cafes and football stadiums that there has been a change in the concept of tolerance and democracy. Just to remind you, you Democrats, once upon a time, when Dragoljub Micunovic was making DS, then it was said -- democracy is the possibility of hearing another alternative, so it was democracy and minority rights, and then democracy was respect for the form. Well, you saw, up until a few months ago, we now have a new form, a new definition of democracy -- democracy is what most people decide. So it doesn't matter the Constitution, it doesn't matter the law, it doesn't matter the elemental logic, it doesn't matter mental health, it matters what most people say, so it will be. So, the den of discrimination is unfortunately this beautiful hall, which you burned on October 5, 2000, so it's renovated, etc. There is no better example of this type of discrimination. Of course, there is discrimination in this country based on social conditions. You don't want to talk about it. It happens from kindergarten to working relationship, so young people whose parents are in a position, or they don't have to be in a position but are well standing, they choose society. Their society can't be a child from a suburban village whose parents don't work. Then we have discrimination at the school where he sits. I am proud to point out, when I was in elementary school that I had a friend named Ćalamanda sitting next to me who was successful and there was no discrimination, and today you have a situation where some kids don't want to enroll in school, like that contribution in Leskovac because you've promoted a new system of values. That system of values is based on principle and you're beautiful and you're smart how much money you have in your pocket. If you don't have money in your pocket, you're ugly, by definition, you're not smart by definition, you're not educated, you're not wanted for company. That's the system of values you've installed in these 11 years and now you expect Neven to castrate you? Well, he won't. She wouldn't even have been set up if it wasn't for you. Why is this law made up? The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. We have formally fulfilled everything, as you say, according to the EU, and basically block it here, there. Mr. Sabic knows about you, so he did not comply with what you want, but demonstrates more respect for his profession and his honor than you could expect. That's why it bothers you. The degree of information and attitudes of citizens - I don't know why the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality would even think about it. I'm counting on him to be a cruel civil servant who has the law, the Constitution and regulations and enforces them. What does he need with these side effects? Now we're going to these computer mattresses. Appealers, we've reached a total of 124. Now they're making this statistic of what they were doing, etc., based on citizenship a little, ethnic or nationality, there's something below 20, sexual orientation – 32. For God's sake, the most important issue of discrimination in Serbia is sexual orientation, so it turns out here. The second on that list is other personal features. So, does he have a big or small nose? Furthermore, the area of social relations to which complaints apply, says – working relations almost 45, secondly, public sphere, hate speech. Mr. Novakovic, I would like to ask you to schedule a meeting for MPs and journalists reporting from the National Assembly. You're baptizing him for public listening. I hope Mr. Dejan Mirovic accepts that. Here, Dejan Mirovic, and I have to get involved, we'll give you a lecture on hate speech. We will be starting from 1949, so Nirber, then the Council of Europe in 1993, and all possible judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, to give you a lecture, to know what those two words "the word of hate" mean, whether they exist or not. Here at our place, I don't like the way Nikola Novakovic looked at me and I can say that it's a consistent act of hate speech. Our hate speech is true. So, Mr. Novakovic says - Mr. Krasic, you have a beard, it's a hate speech. I've got a beard, he hates shaving. You know, we can all have hate speech, not like it, etc. Do you remember 2006 when you attacked me for that Ivana Dulic-Markovic. As early as 2007, G 17 plus kicked out of the party, and it was the first to import genetically modified soybeans and allow genetically modified soybeans to enter. There was a struggle in this hall in 2000 and 2001. No, that's when you said, genetically modified, if it's good in America, it's even better to be in Serbia, so last year you'd be burning all over the village of Ratkov, all the parcels containing traces of genetically modified soybeans. You are not my criterion when you laugh, you are angry or when you vote, because I know your definition of democracy, Mr. Novakovic. You, most of them. Where can most people always be right? He can't. Now most people will say it's the most beautiful Nenad Canak. It's not the most beautiful. Alexandra Jerkov is much more beautiful than Nenad Chank. That's where we'll all agree. But most people can declare Nash neither guilty nor debtor to be a beauty. You know? It's more beautiful than him, for example, Alexander Sapic. It's nice with the girls. Let's move on. He says, "Who are the complaints brought against?" Novakovic, remember this, the official church in the first place. So, Nevena fought the churches. Why, my people? Why? While she was a student, our Milan Petrovic lectured in church law, she would probably look at it differently. Isn't that right, Mile? Yes, it is. Is it possible that churches are the biggest culprits and that they produce the most discrimination? Is it possible, my people? The church is the most popular in our country. Right? And all state officials and officials want to take pictures with the patriarch. Even this unfortunate JKV - "Aca Gica". I don't want to tell you what he did, what incident in Gazimestan. That's the one who didn't know they were Chachans, but said Chechens, you know. Yes, that's right, my dear Chechens. They wanted me to mind the torment of the Chacans. Not to say what he said rudely about his wife in Gazimestan. Let's move on. He says there are employers in second place. Probably. In third place are state authorities. Mr. Novakovicu, Nevena Petrovic concluded that the state authorities are third. It's 15 on this scale, by frequency, of course, within these 120 and something that questions equality. It's dangerous. It's already a world structure. It's the structure that has to respect the Constitution and the law. Now I'm going to give you a few examples of where the state authorities are doing it senselessly. As the local government changes, so all those who belonged to the job are expelled, allegedly, or are members of some party that was previously in power. Do you know that? Now I'm going to give you an example. You'll find it very interesting. I hope Moma Markovic doesn't get angry, MP. Moma Markovic was the director of a public company in Zemun. This new government came in 2000. What are they gonna do first? To haunt Mom Markovic. They say - you hired so many and so many dozens of people. You broke the rules. You have to answer. Over the weekend, they invited people who were admitted to work. They threatened, interrogated, etc. "Who are you with?" What happened? Some proceedings are being initiated against Momir Markovic. They fired all those people. In two months, the new director from DOS, receives 170 and some people. Did I just say that? So, where's this state body going to start a trial against this new director? They're gone. So two days ago, you flew in a little bit, you ran. Think of it as a radical, so let's do him some damage. He'll be in the papers for two days and he'll be something. Isn't that right, Hope? How's Adi Giganlia? Is he okay? So it's a source of inequality and a source of discrimination. The kind of discrimination is this cheap setting up of public utility directors. This is known in the beginning – how many percent belongs to this party, to that party, to that party, to that party. It doesn't matter, maybe that man doesn't even know there's water and sewerage, so let's put him in charge of the public utility water and sewerage. Then we are surprised that the negative financial and economic results are business, etc. In that part, the trustee didn't lift a finger. He didn't move his finger, I mean protecting equality, not you, Mr. Shabic. Thanks to you and your relationship with this law, we're getting information about how these companies operate. Let's move on. See how funny this report is when there's nothing to write. It says - distribution of complaints in regions. My people, the city of Belgrade and the surrounding area -- 30 and something on this scale. It's an unknown 20 and something. Imagine, Kim two and a half. Now, when you read what Mrs. Petrusic wrote here, it turns out that human rights flourish on KIM. Human rights are respected. Poor Serbs can't go back to their homes. According to this report, human rights are respected. Let's move on and see some more ridiculous situations. There she did not quote data from the National Assembly, the KIM Ministry, the MUP and some other state bodies. No, she didn't want to quote it. But Hilary Clinton wrote, and the European Commission wrote a progress report. That must be the main fuss of this report. He says we've got a little abroad. Well then, central Serbia, it's about 17, it's Kragujevac. Now there's some statistics. He then says: warnings and announcements. On July 28, 2010, there was a conflict in the village of Apple. Does she know what she wrote in her statement? How surprised you will be if you hear that the verdict is completely different from the statement given by the trustee. Let's move on. On September 12th 2010, during the upcoming parade of pride, it was acting preventively. But while there was a parade of pride, there was this ambassador of yours in America, that Petrovic. There were both Dacic and Tadic, shaking the poor when they got the report that there was a fuss, they started rubbing their hands and saying – great, another plus towards the EU. You guys know everything, how are you not ashamed? It says – 15 September 2010, a warning and a call for employers to meet the obligation to hire persons with disabilities. Okay. December 2010 – a public warning on typical and frequent discrimination against women in the media. Okay, well, I'm not going to comment on that right now, so maybe it's based on aesthetics, but what happens to written media, as women and our daughters present themselves, I need to let you know, it's an insult. Especially when headlines show headlines that describe wardrobes and other laundry. Can it affect the editors in charge and responsible? You got it. When you see Nevena, tell her that I recommended it, since I am her friend and friend, let her invite them to the meeting of Gilas, Tuck, Krstic and Saper, and so can Zeljko Mitrovica and give them a keen warning of the visual and aesthetic appearance of their shows and media. But they keep everything in the media. Everything in the media they hold. You know, you can look for a commercial today. The television won't give you an ad, but it will say – please report to this and that of this four and they will provide you with a lot cheaper than we would. We don't have the space, because they bought the seconds, the spaces, etc. It's a constructive proposal. Put the four of them in one room. If you need any help, call me. I've had experience, since I've lived in the KPD Nis for a long time, 27 years, and I know how to deal with what category of people should be done, how to talk to them, and end the problem. No more problems, you know? There'll be nice front pages, and airstrips. In a beautiful light, all of Serbia will be shown regardless of its characteristics and characteristics. Of course, on 9 December 2010, the international day of human rights, Mrs. Nevena reminded us well, informed us how beautiful it was – beautiful, nicer, was that of JUL. Left, nicer, etc. You see from this, that we do not actually need this organ – a trustee to protect equality. These are all the responsibilities of the citizens' protectors. Everything. And he's fighting for human rights, and he's fighting discrimination. You see 124 items, you can bury this trustee with documentation. I just need to draw attention to you that a large number of people who are truly discriminated against and do not address the competent authorities because they do not trust that the competent authorities of their problems can solve. It is not enough to talk about the protection of human rights and the prohibition of discrimination only through these reports, but to create a climate, create an atmosphere in a society where people will respect one another and know the values that promote this society. Today, the average citizen of the Republic of Serbia does not know what these values have been accepted in general. He doesn't know how to relate to a call from a state authority. When a state authority invites him to fulfill his obligation, he does not know if he fulfils the obligation to call the state authority whether he has done well or has done wrong. All those who have responded to the State's call to defend this country, you have humiliated them. From October 5th to today. Mr. Novakovic, I hope I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57923	Well, we didn't think so. Thank you. The word is Mr. Shabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57924	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for your attention, and I would like to thank the home committees for the reports of the Commissioner for the self-preservation of the public importance of personal data on this proposal for conclusions. It seems rather obvious to me that if the Assembly adopts this conclusion it will objectively be on the line to support the efforts of my associates and mine. I wouldn't talk about the content of the report. That's a lot of words here, a lot of other reports have been discussed by even two committees. As for the public, the media, journalists are based on the moment when they are sent to the Assembly for an electronic presentation. So I don't want to talk about content. What I think is relevant is that I draw your attention, so again thanks to these conclusions, to the fact that there are two completely different reports. So, in one area which is the subject of the report on the application of the law on the free presence of information, although with the apparent existence of the problem the report is talking about, we have a result. So if this assembly, by adopting the Law on Free Access to Information, wanted to activate the mechanism of democratic control, it succeeded. Today in Serbia thousands and thousands of citizens daily call for the law and use and receive information, those who do not receive complaints from the trustee and use their legal means. Finally, one process, much more important than that, is the process of relatively publishing information. So, I remember perfectly some time from five years ago when our trustee, about, was the only state body that had a labour informant, today is very much. I am pleased to say that the National Assembly is someone who provides an absolutely positive example in this regard. So, the information on the work of our Parliament is such that anyone who is objective must say that there is now, online, so, for an anonymous visitor, there is a lot of information that they, for example, couldn't ask for a few years ago, or even no one thought to look for them. I urge you to insist that what the National Assembly has done, be done to everyone. If it can be done by parliament then it can and must be done by any other authority of the government. If we do that, we'll have a lot of complaints, much less trustees' interventions, etc. The second area is unfortunately a very different state and your attention is once again supported by these conclusions I recommend two things. One is related to what is the regular activity of this Parliament, which is my reminder that at this point we do not have the end of European standards, I am talking about standards that are formal obligations, so, which we have assumed as an obligation to adopt appropriate international public documents, a harmonised law on data protection of a person, that we do not have a law on bureaucracy and that we do not have a law on video surveillance, that we do not have laws governing the private security sector, and that is much more important that we do not have many sublegal acts that the government or the ministry did not bring even though the deadlines for adoption have long passed. In this context, it is difficult to talk about quality data protection, and this is some effort that we should put together in this direction. I believe that these laws that I mentioned will be, I hope that there will be priorities in Parliament's legislative activity in the coming year and in this year. I would end up here, appealing once again to the Assembly to adopt the proposed conclusions. But I'll only let myself look back at two more things. Of course, I'm not here to discuss your views, but you're here to discuss mine, but two things I still have to look back on. One is the lapus made by Mr Krasic, the SRS MP, speaking of working conditions. He said at one point that the trustee for free access to information had resolved the spatial conditions without the trustee for equality yet. Unfortunately, the situation is just the other way around. So that tells the truth for the sake of it and to make sense of the conclusion you've made. So, if parliament adopts these conclusions, it will support the conditions for trustee independence, one essential condition is therefore, and the conditions for working at this time the trustee is working with twice as many employees as the number that the National Assembly allowed him to hire two years ago, because there are no spatial conditions, and the price of this is a huge number of cases that have been waiting too long to resolve. That's one thing. The other thing is more embarrassing to me. You know, ever since you chose me as a trustee, I've tried and I've been jealously trying to get that organ to act in communication with the whole environment in the best way possible. That's what my employees know, and that's what I used to insist on, very strictly. This body communicates with the most common, I do not say it in a peri-urban sense – a citizen, in a way that is extremely correct and does not allow, therefore, with regard to expeditionivity, cultural relationship, to respond to any inaccuracies. Shortly before, the chairman of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals called the trustee for some unconstitutional co-operation with that committee. I am responsible for any call, aware of the fact that this Parliament has chosen me, any invitation from the Assembly or any working body, the institution of the trustee has always answered. So I have two deputy elected in parliament, never allowed to be replaced by one deputy. I was present at both committee sessions, at every call from this House I came and I guarantee I will come. So I call upon Mr. President to tell me when the Committee has called upon the trustee, at which session or if he cannot confirm it, to apologize to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57925	Thank you. Only one explanation, if I understand Mr Dujovic correctly, was the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57926	Just for the sake of the public, let's be absolutely realistic. I didn't say that I invited you to the Committee's session, but that I invited you after the appointment of the Committee to establish a relationship in co-operation and everything else. Of all the independent regulatory bodies that have been called through the Service, only your portfolio has not responded to this, with the reason that you have not had time, that you have been prevented etc. You check in your service, and I'll check in on my service and deliver it to you exactly when the contacts were and who the contacts were, because there's no reason for me to tell the lies here, just the work, at least apologize to anyone for anything that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57927	I'm not checking. I know exactly what the situation is. It's just me. (President: Just a word to give you, please. So it's about your secretary answering my phone and asking if we can meet and get an answer at any time. Any time. After that, your secretary In your office. [[off microphone]] On such calls, I protect the institution, not my vanity, I don't answer. If you see it as a defect, I'm very sorry. I repeat, no single call from this House has been rejected and will be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-07-0.u57928	Since no word has been reported on the lists of MPs, does anyone who has not yet exercised their right to Article 96 want the word? No, I don't. In that case, I conclude a joint single search on: - Regular Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2010, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Justice and Administration Committee, and - Report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information From Public Matters and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2010, with a proposal for conclusions of the Committee on Culture and Information and a proposal for conclusions of the Committee on Justice and Administration. We've done a joint single search. In the voting day, the National Assembly will decide on proposals from the committees responsible for reviewing these reports. This is what we ended today's work day. We will continue tomorrow, on Friday, 8 July at 10.00 a.m., a joint debate on the reports of the State Auditing Institution and the Anti-Corruption and Appointing Agency, the elections. Thank you for your cooperation, Mr. Shabic. Thank you for your participation.
