ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53244	For the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Mining and Spatial Planning, given that the Act on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund is in the jurisdiction of this ministry, and that this law regulates the right to sell licences, I ask the question that is – Why does the license for sport fishing not apply to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53245	MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53246	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take care of those who in this House are looking for what was never in it, and I will make sure that this time I don't make any "wrong" that will then put you in a position to apologize on behalf of the entire assembly. The question is for the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, and Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Here we had a debate before the Committee on Foreign Policy, in which the government sought to convince us that it was leading a balanced and balanced foreign policy. I don't think it was a proper formulation, because we don't run a balanced and balanced foreign policy. Our foreign policy is dishonest and, above all, according to the objectives that have been formally established here in parliament and which are being undermined by this concept of European integration and the fulfilment of those obligations that stand in the way of essential modernisation, transformation and reform in our country. I spoke here two weeks ago about the war in Libya, asked very clear questions from the foreign minister. He did not answer them, instead he manipulated my parliamentary question, misused the ministerial function, and caused damage to our society, and to my party and myself personally. Since I deleted the term I said here from my dictionary, I will once again say that I believe that we are in the Assembly, that we are talking about politics, political ambience and only in the political context. What I think is our obligation is to repeat the question and request the very concrete moves of our ministry, so that politics is as the minister presented here in parliament. Namely, our party is in contact with the citizens of Libya, the people of Libya, who are the victims of their authority. This country is silent in front of the fact that its multi-year foreign policy partner is at this moment at war with his people and is actually in conflict with the part of the world that we want to move towards. Our country's delegation led by the President of the Republic is in France. France is at war with the Muamer Gaddafi regime. The French president has recognised the national authority of Benghazi. At the same time, we are the hostages of our foreign policy's impotence to be concrete, quality, which is a prerequisite for changes declared by the ruling coalition. There is no European and modern Serbia, without the willingness to share the values, obligations and rights of the EU and its members. Today it is clear how right we were when we criticised the wrong concept of intervention in Libya. There's no politics. We should run as a country that doesn't care how the war ends in Libya. Our conflict tragedy ten years ago binds us to such an additional thing, but also to the friendship of the Libyan people, not only the Libyan regime. That is why I expect the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government to inform us – when will they achieve the necessary balance by, at least to the same extent, being committed to the interests of the people's representatives in Bengezia, as it is dedicated to the interests of the regime in Tripoli? I expect the government to launch humanitarian activity in our society, to help the victims in Libya, in the same way that they helped the workers in this country. I don't mean any weapons, any kind of violence or political support. I mean humanitarian aid, which is necessary, medication and food, above all. It takes a little more balance in the media. The media openly favours the party that, in our opinion, is in conflict with its citizens, and our society about this is arbitration with no elementary information and insight into the real picture of the situation and relations in Libya itself. I think it's our responsibility. I expect the Ministry to act more correctly this time than it was when it knew that with those, such as this government, who secretly support Gaddafi, produced a political affair in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53247	I give my word to Ambassador Dejan Pisarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53248	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, using my right to ask Minister Milutin Mrkonjic as MP. The question is this – will the reconstruction of the start-up regional road L 214 that connects the Great Plan with Lapova continue. Namely, what's this about? In 2006, a reconstruction began and it was made to the populated town of Lozovik. Contemporary signalling, vertical and horizontal was made during reconstruction, then a good paved screen was done, etc. However, the continuation of this journey has not been done and for what reason it has not been done I really don't know. To get closer to understanding what the road is, it is a road route moving from Belgrade, through Grocka, the Great Plana, Lapova, and beyond. Just through the area of the Great Plan municipality it wasn't done. I can't help but notice, not to be a little critical in the whole story, I must say in public, that there are three Members of the Great Plan here, unfortunately nothing has been done. I'm here to help my place do something. I can also say that in the environment, in the surrounding municipalities, there is a great deal of work and thanks to the MPs who are here. I'll give you an example of Lapov. There's a Kronospan factory in Lapov that employs people. No one can tell me there's no contribution here, because there's Mr. Zlatnic, the president of the SPO, and our colleague probably has a contribution, Mirko Chikiriz, there and there, a large number of employees are employed. Another example, the Raca municipality, which is also much smaller than any coastal village, is working there by the Jura factory and currently works there over 600 workers. No one can tell me that it's not the work of our president, that it's allowed people to work and I can tell you that people are too pleased, by the Natalians, the Welders, etc., there from that neighborhood and everyone praises that venture. The next example is the Svilajnac municipality, a colleague of Misa Marinkovic, who made it possible for the German factory Reum to come to Svilajnac and to employ workers. However, in the Municipality of the Great Plan, which has three MPs here, and all three of us from three different parties have done nothing. What's the problem? There's a problem with the local government. There, the majority assembly, in the local government, is made up of DSS committees and SRS committees. The DSS and JS committees are there in opposition. We criticise, but for nothing. The local parliament is currently in trouble, certain committees have been defected to other groups, and the assembly majority is totally unstable. This way I want to bring this problem out and I just want our community to be as successful as other municipalities. Also, the Danube region has five MPs here. All five of us are from five different parties. So, in one word, one disunity, one discrepancy is in the middle, that no capital investment comes to where we live. People expect me, because I'm always out there on the street and in the village, doing something to help. In this way, I would like to try, if possible, and invite the President of the Municipality of the Great Plan and his associates, if they have the hearing, that, with my help and help, two other MPs who are here, to establish contact with the municipal and republican authorities, to do something about it. Because the Great Plan municipality is going through a highway about 40 kilometers in corridor 10 and literally nothing has been done there. Also, Smeder's is the same problem. In that sense, I have asked this particular question and, if there is a hearing that is done this time, it will be good, and if it wants the President of the Great Plan Municipality and his associates to connect them in some way, because they are obviously in a fight with the Republic Government, let's do something for the benefit of the citizens of the Great Plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53249	Thank you. You overestimate my influence on travel. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53250	Dear People's MPs, under Article 286. I request the Rules of Procedure to explain and inform the President of the Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. It is about one obligation that this congregation has accepted, and it has not fulfilled. The assembly should be defined to decide whether it wants to be an observer at the Parliamentary Assembly of the collective security agreement. The commitment was accepted at last session of the parliamentary assembly, last fall, in late October. Our delegation was at the meeting and its president, MP Dusan Bajatovic, took the obligation. In fact, he himself demanded and prayed that such an opportunity be examined, for which the Council of this organization is in the mood, but there is no decision of this congregation. It's been months, as far as I can tell, nothing happened. The parliamentary assembly holds its next session in the second half of May. It's still time to decide on this and send a request for observer status. The first question is why is there so much to wait for? Is it a bureaucratic routine, or is it an obstruction of one of these possibilities, because we've been receiving at the very end of that date when we're supposed to send that request? The second question is, will that happen in this congregation? So we have to go through procedure. Even if we want to reject one such possibility, as requested by Mr Bajatovic, we must make a decision because it is the obligation of this assembly, and the Parliamentary Assembly of the collective security organisation expects it. So we have to treat ourselves fair to others and when we make a commitment, we have to do it. Finally, my biggest question, to which it does not have to be answered directly, I would certainly ask these two to be answered, is actually the question of our strategy in collective security today in the world. The presence in this parliamentary assembly of this collective security organization is very important for this country. It is important for the sake of the matter itself, and it is also important for the balance compared to our membership in the NATO Partnership for Peace and for the balance towards NATO. Namely, these two things cannot be compared, NATO is a militarist organization that sows death around the world, and this organisation, which is now slowly developing, is one peace-making organisation aimed at maintaining and supporting world peace and collective security through communication, co-operation and debate. Since we now have an opportunity to make at least some minimum balance, we really need to take advantage of and show that we are actually military neutral, which is our official policy and claims. So we can't enter any military alliances, number one, but we can join peace organisations, for security, for all such initiatives. It is necessary to do so as soon as possible, which is why I am sending this appeal to Madam President of the Assembly in order to define Serbia. I think a positive response to this initiative of the Parliamentary Assembly of the collective security organisation is understood, but in any case we have to decide on it, as soon as possible. That's why I'm asking you to answer these questions in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53251	Mr. MP, of course I'm taking care of the work of the congregation bodies and I'm informed of the idea you're talking about, that is, the invitation to participate in the gathering you mentioned in the Russian Federation. As you know, last year our MPs took part in the work, or were observers. The Security Committee considered the point at the last session of the agenda and instructed the Committee on Foreign Affairs as it stands in the procedure. Therefore, the Foreign Affairs Committee will consider this question, but what I can tell you is that someone from the Security Committee will, in any case, take part in the work. As far as strategic security issues are concerned, I hope you do not expect me to give an answer through the form of a parliamentary issue. MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53252	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a question that concerns this comment of yours that you have now made, Prime Minister, and ask him why he allows, and the same question applies to the president of the state, that the Constitution is constantly being violated? We cannot now comment and violate the Constitution to cover various committees and various decisions that we will make. We have the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which has defined certain things extremely, clearly, precisely and precisely. We repeatedly violate the Constitution, and very incorrectly, and we cover everything with some decisions that someone will make tomorrow, simply take some steps of responsibility when the time comes. Another question that I would ask the finance minister – is it okay that at yesterday's session, at which they were adopted, the minors passed the debate in principle, seven financial laws, which are extremely important and key for this country, the finance minister is not present to explain these laws, but to send Mr Djelic, who had no specific authority to resolve these issues and to provide certain answers? Secondly, during the session of the afternoon yesterday, he was very incorrect. This proved to be a small presence of the number of MPs in parliament and the ruling coalition, as well as opposition. You, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, had a delegation yesterday at the beginning of the session, and we were many MPs in the hallway, moreover, and we said goodbye to them, saw them, etc. Meanwhile, in Mrs. Comic's O.R., she began the session and immediately gave her word to Mr. Djelic. So seven key financial laws for this country, which mean life for the economy of this country, began a quick session, that we couldn't even apply. I came in here on time and brought in the application, and Djelic already started talking and automatically no more reporting. Imagine, out of seven financial laws, very serious ones, only 10 MPs in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia have applied for discussion, as the rest have not arrived to apply, nor to submit applications. Of course, many left and left. It was a shame to have such a debate before 10, 15, 20 MPs, which occasionally was, and especially the opposition MPs, I think at one point is seven-eight in the hall. It's not nice for the laws that are very important for this country to just pass. The law on restitution, which is an extremely important law, awaits us these days. It will be prepared quickly and formally brought, but technically it will not be applicable and it will be a stumbling block to the EU. You will see that it will be a great stumbling block for us to join the EU. Therefore, the law will be passed in this parliament and voted purely formal, and technically it will be inapplicable and no financial resources will be provided for its implementation, which I am convinced of. Therefore, I ask you to take all measures that laws that come to parliament do not have to return for two or three times, do not have to be amended and complemented by every law, do not have to be unserious, but that law that comes here to be a serious law and when it is adopted, that this issue be permanently resolved. I repeat, the law on the restitution being prepared is not a condition for it to be realised, to be implemented, or financial resources. This law, as many of your associates and coalition partners announce, will be formally adopted, in order to meet some EU criteria, to get candidate status, but it will in practice be inadmissible, because it is not prepared, it is not done and cannot be implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53253	Without a tendency to compromise, however, I am obliged to say that yesterday the government's authorised representative was Vice President Djelic, which is more than legitimate. On the other hand, Vice-President Comic strictly respected the Rules of Procedure and held a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As for your finding that a small number of MPs are present occasionally in the O.R., most of us can make each of us more often present. I give my word to the Faith Radetti.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53254	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SRS has been drawing attention to the unbearable behaviour of the former legitimately removed coalition in the Bayin Garden municipality for ten days. Last Wednesday, Ivan Markovic, a member of the Municipal Council, was brutally beaten there, otherwise a member of the G17 Plus party, only because he supported a newly formed coalition, in which the SRS, DSS and two G17 Plus council members are. When this man was beaten, Mr. Ivan Markovic, in a bar in Baja's Basta, Radovan Kremic, a member of New Serbia, who served as vice president of the municipality, brought two of his beatings and they brutally beat Mr. Markovic to justice. He immediately requested medical attention, was in a local health care facility and was immediately notified to the police. What's worrying is that the police only reacted two days ago, and it's probably pushed by what the SRS in public is trying to attach importance to this truly incredible and unbearable event. After police intervention, only the attacker was charged with a misdemeanor. We believe that this is inadmissible and that the way they try to preserve power or get a new ruling coalition majority, mostly representatives of the regimeal parties, is unacceptable. In Baja's Basta, in addition to being brutally beaten, I said from the G17 Plus party, daily pressures are being placed on the parliamentary majority, above all on the SRS committees, in order to get someone to give up their intention to continue supporting the newly formed assembly majority. The most pressure is put on SRS committeeman Gordana Cenic, who is a young woman, a widow, lives with underage children. She is also invited in the night hours, in the late evening hours, to be offered various promises and openly asked to leave the coalition and the SRS parliamentary group. And that's what the local police in Baja Basta have been informed of and no one is doing anything to protect this woman and, after all, to protect the legitimately elected coalition in Baja Basta. This is not just the case in Baja Basta, in Alexinac, for example, Dr Radovan Zivadinović, who was an SRS board member, according to our knowledge he received a solution from the Deputy Director of the Medical Centre in Aleksinec and it was the price to leave the committee group. Fortunately, there are a large number of council members who support the coalition in which the SRS is and that government has failed in this way to bring it down. Also, there are committees in Aleksinec, they're being threatened. Again, a young woman who is openly threatened to break both her legs and arms if she does not leave the SRS has been particularly affected. He spoke to his colleague Pisarevic earlier about how there was a change of government in the Great Plan. Here's concrete data. We also informed the public. In the Great Plan, the president of the municipality, Dejan Sulkic, sold the JKP without tendering to the Austrian firm Weber Werner Por and the SRS, which was then part of the ruling coalition, tried to prevent it. Since this was sold under very suspicious circumstances, it happened that four council members were given a job under suspicious circumstances and without a public competition. So our question is, are these legitimate European principles of taking over? Just to tell who I'm asking, we ask the departments of police, justice and state administration and local self-government – will they finally start doing their job in accordance with our constitution and our laws, not on the recommendations of Brussels and Washington?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53255	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 12 years ago, April, with the start of NATO bombing, the regime announced, in addition to external aggression, unfounded and against international law, and internal aggression. One of the first victims of internal aggression was journalist Slavko Curuvija. For 12 years, the Serbian public has been burdened with investigating who organised and committed the murder of Slavko Curuvija. According to information available to the SPO, all evidence has been collected against the organisers and perpetrators of the murder of Slavko Curuvija on 11 April 99. According to our information, there is a reasonable doubt that the operation had its name "Couran", that it was a code for the murder of Curuvia and that the operation was conducted by senior officials of the Belgrade centre of DB, that one high-ranking official of the Belgrade centre DB "golf" DB transported another high-ranking official and murderer after the crime, from the scene of the crime. According to our information, since the investigation has been completed and we have information that the case is being held with Special Prosecutor Miljko Radisavljevic, I would like to ask the special prosecutor a question – is the investigation closed and, if the investigation is closed, why is there no indictment, if there is evidence available to the SPO, and if there is no evidence to press charges, then the investigation should be extended or, if there is no evidence, the investigation should be suspended? According to us, the evidence is quite credible and the case includes the same persons who participated in the organisation and preparation of some other political killings, particularly Ivan Stambolic, in the attempted murder of Vuk Draskovic and the murder of high-ranking officials of the Serbian Renewal Movement at the Ibar Masteral. Why is this asking the Serbian Renewal Movement? Of course, not because Slavko Curuvija was our member, he was never our member, but because we think, as Christians, that life is the greatest Christian value, and that whoever takes another person's life should be sentenced and punished for it. On the other hand, we come to the level of human rights, if we strive towards the European Union, and it rests on human rights, the basics of the European Union's formation are respect for human rights, then it is the most difficult human right to overcome when you take someone's life away. In today's Serbia, eleven years after the five-octobaric changes, the streets of Belgrade can't have political murder organisers, murderers and followers of the victims of political murders, and we all pretend like we don't know what happened. If we want to build a normal society in the process, and surely we want to see murderers in prison, my question is: why does this procedure that is heavy on the Serbian public not go with the prosecution?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53257	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs Zoran Nikolic, Momo Colakovic, Djordje Milicevic and Zoran Kasalovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in view of the joint principle and uniform review of the draft law referred to in points 12, 16 and 17 of the agenda, I have also called on the sittings of Dusan Mrakic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, Dragan Jovanovic, Assistant Minister of Infrastructure and Energy and Zoran Cirovic, Assistant Minister of Finance. We move to the 12th, 16th and 17th points of the agenda: – PROPOSING OF THE ELECTRON MANAGEMENT OF THE TRANSPORT LAW BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EIB AND THE FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION OF THE COURT 10 AUTHORITIES 1 BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EIB (Common Main and Single Search) I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be distributed as follows: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Siniša Stamenković to the PUPS parliamentary group; MP Miletic Mihajlović to the SPS - JS parliamentary group; MP Milos Radulović to the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica; MP Mico Rogovic to the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia's international MP Nikola Savivić to the SRS. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending the Law on Transport in Road Transport, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the ECS Guarantee Treaty, the electronic count between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Treaty Corridor 10 Autoway Phase 1 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Does Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure and energy, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53258	The Honorable Presidency, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as usual, is my honor to be in Parliament, in a high house and to refer to the laws on the agenda. The road transport law was passed in 1995, and in 2001, 2005 and 2006 he suffered only changes and additions that did not become more relevant to the concept of the law. Since the legislation has significantly changed the conditions and mode of transport in road transport in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it was necessary to make appropriate changes and amendments to the legislation governing transport in road transport. The new solutions contained in the bill eliminate disturbances created on the internal traffic market, primarily in public transport and transport for their own purposes, covering the transport of passengers, persons and things, which specify and repairs the position of operators carrying out road transport operations in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and also contributes to preventing the occurrence of illegal transport operations. At the request of a large number of car taxis, their associations and trade unions, the draft law pays particular attention to the conditions and way of carrying out a car taxi, which in a much more complete way regulates matter in this type of vanlinic transport, ensuring that problems and negative phenomena are significantly reduced or eliminated in the performance of the car taxi in the coming period. The introduction of more complete and precise individual legal provisions enables the introduction of order on the road transport and services market. The conditions and mode of transport in road transport are more fully regulated and inspection supervision is improved by the regulation of new inspection powers. The new legal solutions better regulate the road transport services market and make it more stable and unique. Exports of fines charged by the law enforcement authority and fines charged on the spot by the perpetrators are revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The more complete regulatory arrangements for transport in road transport allow transport operators in this type of transport to increase the volume of work, as well as the possibility of better and safer carrying out their work. In this way, total economic flows are directly stimulated through the growth of demand in the entire economy. The inspection supervision of the application of the provisions of the law will be intensified and effective co-operation with other competent state authorities will be established. The amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act should introduce order and allow for more efficient prevention of the grey economy on the traffic market. The reasons for the adoption of a law confirming an EPS guarantee contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, concluded in Belgrade on 29 November 2010, are contained in the provision of Article 16(4). The public debt law, which is prescribed that the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to settle the debt is given in the form of a law. Also, the reasons for the adoption of a law on the confirmation of an EPS guarantee contract for electronic numbers between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank are contained in the fact that the European Investment Bank approves a 440m-euro loan for a project to introduce a system of numbers for remote reading and inclusion and exclusion, provided that the Republic of Serbia guarantees the commitment of the public enterprise Elektroprivred Serbia, as a borrower under the contract to finance the EPS electronic count, between the European Investment Bank and the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia", concluded also on 29 November 2010. Article 4 Decisions on the establishment of a public company for the production, distribution and trade of electricity are foreseen for the public company "Electroprivreda Srbija", in the following text, the EPS, among other things, to carry out the production and distribution of electricity and manage distribution systems. In line with the above-mentioned actions carried out by the EPS, a request was submitted to the Bank for the approval of a 40m-euro loan for the financing and implementation of the project. The total value of the project has been estimated at 83m and 700m euros, out of which 40m euros have already been allocated under the loan agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the EPS since 2 September 2010, while the funding of three million and 700 000 euros will be provided by the EPS. I wouldn't read any further, you can ask anything. Third law applies to Corridor 10. The reasons for confirming the financial agreement Corridor 10 – Highway E 85 phase 1 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank are contained in the provision of Article 5(2). The Law on Public Debt, under which the National Assembly decides on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. The European Investment Bank is a financial institution which, with the approval of loans, with minimum annual interest, primarily for the development of underdeveloped regions, modernising transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure, the competitiveness of the European industry, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the protection of the environment, enables easier integration in the EU, balancing the development of economic and social cohesion within the EU. In line with the bank's forward performance, the Republic of Serbia has made a request to the bank regarding the approval of loans to finance the continuation of the Corridor 10 road construction project – E80 highway of 195m euros. Corridor 10 is defined as one of the pan-European corridors that form the trans-European travel network at the European Transport Ministers' conferences, at a European conference held in Crete in 1994 and 1997 in Helsinki. Corridor 10, with its basic works that make up the Belgrade-Budapest route and Belgrade-Nish road route, which continues on the Nis-Sofia and Nis-Presevo routes, with a total length of 792 km, is one of the most significant routes on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and as one of the most significant regional routes connects the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Hungary with the Republic of Bulgaria, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Greece and the Republic of Turkey. Corridor 10 is defined as a priority route and within the framework of the development strategy for rail, road, water, air and intermodal transport in the Republic of Serbia from 2008 to 2015. The bank has already approved part of the funds needed to finance the construction of the 384m-euro Corridor 10 road, based on a financial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank Autoput Corridor 10, concluded on 23 October 2009, financing the construction of the E75 highway on the road route of Grabovnica-Levosoje, 75km long. The project envisions the construction of a new section of the E80 highway between Proseko and Chiflik, 36km in the Nis-Dimitrovgrad route. I wouldn't read any further. Just one sentence, which I'm not going to read, with this track we're rounding up a billion-euro figure and 195m euros needed to build Corridor 10, so what was agreed and agreed. These shares I was talking about, one of them has already been auctioned. Therefore, I ask the Parliament to adopt these three laws in today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53259	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Does the rapporteur of the Transport and Communications Committee, MP Velimir Ilic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53260	I'm very glad that this law came on the agenda because there were a lot of problems getting things in order. This primarily referred to taxi drivers, many road users, carriers, etc. New Serbia and many other parties have been trying to bring this law into order, fix it, and I am glad that we have helped to shape this law and adapt. We are pleased that out of the nine amendments that we have made, the eight governments have adopted, which is our contribution to do everything to improve this law simply so as not to make changes and additions later. I am extremely pleased that many users, especially taxi drivers, will be pleased after this law they eagerly expect. Once again, I want to thank the people who worked on the amendments in the government and accepted our eight amendments, where we tried to put the law back in order, fix it, because based on some long-standing experience and cooperation, we had very constructive proposals. I hope that the law will be passed without a problem and will simply solve many of the problems encountered in road transport.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53261	Does the Financial Committee's rapporteur, MP Milan Vukkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Siniša Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Associates, today we have one of the laws that we believe should finally be addressed by a very large number of present problems in the field of road transport in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This law requires regulation of issues and relationships which are subject not only to the law, but also to publish so far a large number of rules, regulations, regulations and directives that should finally cease to govern this issue, and that it finally begins to manage the Law on Road Traffic. The new solutions contained in the bill eliminate the internal traffic market disturbances, specify and correct the position of all economic operators carrying out road transport operations in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and give some new solutions to the transport of goods, persons and things. We feel as a parliamentary group that the requirement of a large number of carriers, both in road transport and in car-trash traffic, is justified and requires that this law be adopted as soon as possible and implemented in the everyday practice of our citizens, businessmen, for the transport of goods, for the services of people. I will pay particular attention to the basic problems of taxi transport, which can be classified in several of the most significant groups, and this: firstly, it is inadequate regulation and is too much self-will for local administration authorities in this regulation. I don't think these solutions that the law has given are preventing unfair competition and the price of services. The intended amendments and additions to the Law on Transport in Road Transport, in the part relating to auto-tax transport, should be the common urgency of all MPs, should be that this area is at least about regulated legally, given its unquestionable importance for the whole of our society. The current situation in car taxi transport in the Republic of Serbia is unacceptable, and this situation is directly due to the lack of adequate legislation. Namely, car taxi transport, as regards the law as a form of regulation, is regulated only by part of the Law on Transport in Road Transport, with only four members and eight provisions, and in the rest of the way taxi transport is regulated by the provisions of local self-government decisions, as sublegal acts, which led to the fact that one business activity is regulated in several different ways and which creates chaos in everyday application. When added to the fact that almost every decision by local self-government was the subject of an assessment by the Constitutional Court of Serbia, and that almost every in most or smaller parts has been advertised as unconstitutional, it is easy to conclude that in the area of legal regulation in a taxi and in general in transport there is a major chaos. The ideal situation would be if a special law on taxi transport were passed, whether as a special law, either as part of, hopefully, of future road transport law, but until things are resolved in this way, we are obliged to change the existing Law on road transport at least in a temporary manner to resolve some of the basic issues related to car taxi transport. According to the proposed amendments, a few things would be achieved. It is primarily necessary, by changing Article 6, to regulate the concept of a person who can carry out a car taxi, and in that sense, our proposal is that only a legal person or entrepreneur, whose only activity would be a car taxi transport. The main reason for this amendment to the Amendment of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Road Transport is compliance with the laws and regulations governing traffic safety, as well as the specificities of a public transport car taxi. In fact, if a proposal were to survive that taxi transport could be carried out by persons whose taxi activity is too heavy, as stated in the law, so few taxi drivers and few are, but only one of the activities, the provisions of the positive traffic safety regulations would be drastically violated. Subject regulations more than clearly regulate the number of lessons a professional driver can spend a day doing this work. Moreover, extremely strictly prescribed vacations these faces must use. It would be extremely difficult to imagine that one person performs his other activities during the day, and during the day, for example, eight hours of work drives a taxi, and then starts to perform his other additional activities. This process would seriously endanger the safety of road traffic, persons and citizens, and must be prevented by the latest changes and additions. In this regard, our parliamentary group has submitted an amendment requesting that the "weighty" be deleted and that it remains the only occupation as a taxi profession. In addition, auto-tax transport, as a specific type of transport, represents a great need for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially in large cities, and would be unserious to carry out this activity by legal persons, along with other business or independent activities. Also, according to us, it would be necessary to amend Article 9 of the Proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Transport, as under the now applicable Law on Transport in Road Transport, and by the provisions of Article 36, great powers have been conferred on local self-government. Again, we draw attention to the fact that local self-government tends to fully interpret the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, and in particular those of the provisions governing car taxi transport. This claim is certainly accompanied by the fact that the Constitutional Court, at the time of the application of the Transport Act in road transport, has made more than 20 decisions establishing the violation of the Constitution and the law by local self-government in the field of auto-taxis transport, and is particularly indicative of the fact that over a thousand proceedings of this kind are currently being conducted before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, in which the legality and constitutionality of almost all sub-legal acts taken in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are being governed by this action. The regulation of a provision by which local self-governments would no doubt draw attention to the need to comply with the Constitution and the law, from which they draw the powers to adopt sub-legal acts, would give other results. Thus, for example, it would prevent the Law on Transport in Road Transport from prescribing conditions that must be met by a taxi vehicle, and then local self-government from making a decision requiring both cars of up to eight years of age or with Euro-three and Euro-four engines, which are not mentioned at all in the law. In this part, it is still necessary to amend Article 35 of the proposed amendments and additions by inserting the part relating to advertising. We are witnessing that in the Republic of Serbia over 90% of taxi carriers are entrepreneurs, while the rest are legal persons carrying out this type of transport. We are also witnessing mass advertising of taxi associations that offer passengers a discount on the price of service established by positive regulations. In particular, it is not about companies offering discount for services provided by their employees, but it is about services provided by entrepreneurs, members of taxi companies operating as companies and other forms of legal entities. The legal person offers a discount on the service provided by the entrepreneur as an individual, which is absolutely unacceptable, and such norms would completely prevent such phenomena. Individuals believe that such a proposed provision, which would prohibit advertising below the minimum price established, would be unconstitutional, however, the argument is not valid. This amendment would directly protect the conference and prevent dumping, and in a number of laws we have a situation that regulates the compensation for services, so the law on legal fees is prohibited below 50% of the officially established price. Why doesn't that apply in taxi services? At the same time, we note that these changes are not contrary to the Law on Advertising, as a lex specialising regulation in the field of advertising, so it is allowed to deal with advertising in other regulations, and as a classic example of the Transport Safety Act, which prohibits advertising of special devices which would reveal devices to measure vehicle speed, i.e. radar detection devices. From this point on, we would like to point out and apostrophe of the very difficult position of auto taxi carriers in the Republic of Serbia, because this situation is due to the poor regulation caused by the general dissatisfaction of taxi operators and service users, i.e. Citizens, which has an extremely harmful impact on the entire economy of the Republic. In the form of entrepreneurs, this activity carries out more than 17 and a half thousand taxi drivers per registration, of which only about seven and a half thousand are registered in Belgrade. Given the fact that the taxi service has become a waste of its own for people who have lost their jobs, there has been a pre-immension of this service that can no longer endure all the conditions of the technique available in this service. This fact is not only seen in unfair competition by persons not registered for the performance of this activity, but also by persons registered, but not in accordance with the rules. As a result, the future state would have to deal with the basic issue in this area with the status of taxi drivers, as well as other drivers in road traffic, and through the resolution of tax problems, through the resolution of unfair competition, the sanctioning of unfair competition entities, and not only taxi drivers, but also other associations, which would certainly be best achieved by passing taxi laws as a special law. In the voting day, we will support this law on one condition, that the justified and truly rational and celery amendments are accepted and be an integral part of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53263	Ten minutes and 50 seconds of the authorized representative's time have been used. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53264	Mrs. Comic, I will refrain from the discussion since the minister is not here. I don't think there's any point in me talking in his absence because the topic I want to talk about is a loan taken as a part of Corridor 10, a situation in which Corridor is located, the responsibility of the minister for a whole series of failures that follow his engagement and his ministry on the Corridor 10 project, the damages we suffer, etc. I'll refrain from the discussion because I don't think there's any point in doing it in his absence.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53265	Two minutes of time has been used by the president of the parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53266	On behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I will speak a few sentences about the adoption of this law but mostly in an affirmative sense. Of course, there is always room for criticism and depends on which aspect we look at all these issues, as well as other issues that are within the jurisdiction of certain resolutions. Given that we are living in one transition time, in a very difficult time, in the time of the financial crisis and other troubles that are pressing us, and in the race with time to change many things in time to catch up with what is desired, to join the EU, it is not difficult to find many facts and reasons that many things are being criticised, even those that are on the agenda today, but there are also other aspects that look at these things quite differently. So, when it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, it is certainly important to start from the fact that this law was passed in 1995, that it suffered amendments 2001, 2005 and 2006. In addition to the basic legislation in legislation, in this area, we have a number of sublaws that have been trying to bring new circumstances into line with what is needed and time and what is a practice in life at the moment. It couldn't have been done in an adequate way anymore. Certainly, to praise the phenomenon in the National Assembly of Laws on these amendments and additions to the Law on Transport in Road Transport, which will modernise this regulation and compare the needs of today's present-day, which does not mean, however, that this law and these amendments are ideally addressed by these issues, and that there will certainly be a need to monitor certain difficulties in the application of this law and in line with the needs of these areas, also, at a given time or through the adoption of sublegal acts, through the adoption of new instructions in order to bring this down to what these problems are in local self-government. Also, at a given time, new changes would make progress in regulating this area. Of course, we've had a reaction from many associations and trade unions, many employees in this area. It is commendable that we make certain changes there. When it comes to auto-tax traffic, and when it comes to line traffic, and when it comes to transporting things and transporting things for their own purposes, and most importantly, this law seems to be an attempt to improve the conditions of subsistence, to introduce innovation, so to speak, in a legal course, which prevents unfair competition. On the other hand, it also prevents the grey economy and creates some better assumptions for innovation that are not good at this moment because of the overall crisis and financial crisis in one wider space. In that sense, the SPS-JS parliamentary group supports the appearance of such a law and will certainly vote for it. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Corridor 10 – G85 phase I Treaty, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, I want to express on behalf of our SPS-JS parliamentary group a complete commitment towards the realization of this effort by our country and all the responsible factors that we finally have, in due course, the completion of Corridor 10, which represents the pan-European corridor within the general trans-European travel network defined in international terms. Any lagging behind in the realization of this large task is an unacceptable and unacceptable handicap in the sense that we must keep pace with time, that we must do everything to make the infrastructure, both travel and rail, and all others to one decent level. Of course, infrastructure is the basis and basis for the overall development of one country, one society and a better one, to create better conditions for attracting all of our citizens. We heard that the European Investment Bank, approving loans with minimum annual interest, and for the realisation of such projects, such as infrastructure or for the modernisation of some other activities, actually encourages easier integration into the EU. Of course, that integration that we want in the EU, we cannot accept it only in words as one fiction, a single fission that actually means nothing to ourselves, if in real life we don't make some changes, qualitative changes that will make us in some foreseeable time, how much, approximate what happens in a wider environment in the region, and even in the EU. The completion of Corridor 10 in the length of 792 kilometers is a basic assumption, I would say, that is the imperative need we have to finish, because otherwise we will remain a appendix and a deadlock on the Balkan Peninsula, and the main roads leading to the Middle East and connecting the entire regions will bypass us. This certainly is not a good assumption of what we want in terms of further progress and keeping pace with the environment, with the region and with other countries. This is about a loan that is provided for the completion of the E80 highway section south of Nis towards Dimitrovgrad. The total value of the highway is 391,200,000 euros, it is indeed one huge figure, but it is conditioned and dictated by what are the conditions, configuration and numerous requirements for the construction of the stock. The European Investment Bank provides 195 million dinars with this contract. This ensures that we have two times two lanes, with two stop lanes, a width of 28.4 m and 26 m in those conditions where the conditions dictated by land configuration are more difficult. There's 31 bridges on that section. There are also two ramps, one parking lot, service center, loop at the White Palanca. These are huge procedures within this project, and they certainly require so much money. Of course, we will certainly have counterarguments in terms of why we continue to be in debt and why we take one such loan. The residence of our SPS-JS parliamentary group on such objections is the following, we need to step up and make progress through the development of infrastructure, because it is the basis of the entire society and the progress that is expected of our country, which are primarily expected by our citizens. Waiting for someone and for that same job to work on a rock-on-stone or brick-by-cylinder system is one long-term hesitation that will run over us and actually put us absolutely out of the machine, out of step and out of what the surrounding countries are doing and, of course, what the community is doing that we want to get into tomorrow. So every advance assumes an additional effort. Taking credit is one variant that is otherwise known in the world and in terms of global interests, if it is the state, and also from the perspective of individuals, individuals, people are always in debt with the desire to round up one job, with one reasonable rate of borrowing, return, with certain conditions that will ultimately make a improvement for all of us in faster time for further progress at some next moment, and for the needs of generations to come. If in this global and strategic way we don't look at things, then of course there's nothing better for us or for the generations that come after us. In the same light, I would only speak a few sentences about the next law regarding progress, improving technology in the electricity industry. It is a proposal for a law confirming the EPS Guarantee Treaty, an electronic number, between the Republic of Serbia and the Investment Bank. The project, worth over 80m euros, will in part be financed by the loan that Elektroprivreda is taking from the European Investment Bank, and the Republic of Serbia should be guaranteed by what the contractors are, or by the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, to return the same 40m-euro loan to the agreed items. This is about introducing a system of numbers for remote reading and turning on and off. Of course, even in the field of electricity, we can't stop at where we are today. The technology in the world in all systems and in all areas is making tremendous progress. We owe it, and we need to improve this technology, so that we can work together and communicate with the surrounding world on this technological plan. Otherwise, if we have another logic, one moment we're going to have a cruel reality, that we're living and working with technology from the last century, and someone's gone a hundred years ahead. So, of course, this system counts for remote reading and inclusion is one of the phases, and it will continue over time, but it should start and certainly make progress in this area. Modernising this technology in electricity is also catching up with the technological development of the modern world and carrying out its work in modern conditions, which is also imperative and the need for all of us. In this sense, I have made some findings in one affirmative sense, but I would add something else. Of course, all the other criticisms that come about the implementation of the programme, i.e. projects within Corridor 10, let's say, the easiest thing to do is, at the very least, to bring it down to one man, to one minister or to one ministry, but of course, it's no use. We criticise here and in the National Assembly and elsewhere, but in terms of one complete mobilization of all the entities that implement one project. I think Minister Mrkonjic or only the Ministry if it were fully in the power to realize this job would then be much easier and more respected by some deadlines compared to perhaps one complex way, as it is realised today. Of course, this is also about the second aspect, which we may be talking about in a year, let's say about when new elections come, I don't prejudge when there's going to be elections, it's not in our competence, although we have a position to talk about it, but when we talk about the new government, then through the government law, through the ministry law, we need to agree well and determine the competences of all those resolutions that will be in office and who will be more operational and capable, and also more responsible to carry out a specific task, if they are the entity in full to carry out certain tasks. That's what I end up with and I repeat that the SPS will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53267	I give my word to MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53268	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I'm glad you're back, because I don't think it would be fair to have a discussion in your absence because, of course, it's not a secret that we've criticised you so far, but I think elemental decency obliges us to have an open conversation. Since the issue of Corridor 10, Corridor 11, Railways, JAT, Prokopa, Luke Bar, of everything that you and your ministry appear to be an actor, points to the problems that existed before you were a minister, unfortunately, during your term, they are not solved, in our opinion, only further complicated, I think it would be important to take this opportunity to explain the situation we are in. These changes and additions to the Road Traffic Act are not controversial. I don't think there's any problem with the loans that Elektroprivreda is taking in order to improve its technical capabilities, but if we're talking about electricity or here about Corridor 10, about lending one section of the road, we're absolutely talking about something that we need, we need to ask the question of the efficiency and ability of those who get support here in parliament for their work. I expect you here to talk about it, not to have it all down to a few seconds, a minute or a sentence in the media. It's very important that we know what's going on with Corridor 10. That's very important. What's going on with the contractors who were hired? We need to know what's going on with Corridor 11, on that road section that was officially opened almost a year ago in 2010, Ub-Lajkovac. What's going on with Prokop? What's the situation with our national air carrier? What's going on with the railroad? All of this together needs to get one clear answer. We need a plan. I'm not going to quote all the statements and deadlines you mentioned here. I don't think that's necessary, when both you and I, and the MPs here and the public who's following us, we all know very well that the plans haven't been achieved. We need to get an answer to the question – why is that? Despite the great criticism of you personally, as Minister, I do not believe that there is any single individual who, by his role, can be a key obstacle on that path to achieving such important projects. What's going on with our system? Some institutions have been formed, say the Infrastructure Council, the president of the country is chairing the council. Some plans have been made. Members of the council, meanwhile, are moving projected dates without any accompanying explanation. You mentioned a billion and 200 million euros in loans, or dollars, available to us right now for the job. This is just the revenue we expect more than the revenue we expect through the privatisation of Telecom, as part of the money we have set as the mandatory limit of a billion and 400 will go to the Greek partners. It's not a matter of the economy of this country, of the economy, of the state of society. When will we withdraw those funds that have been granted to us and which are standing somewhere? I don't know how much interest in this case is granted, but unrealised funds, but I'm sure she's paying, too. What is it that parliament needs to do? Where the space for us is as a parliamentary party, so that this chaos in which we live is somehow cleared up. The fact that today's train from Belgrade to Nis travels longer than when the railway was built over a hundred years ago. The fact is that once a prestigious national airline is in a virtually unembarkable position today. The fact is that this Prokop, a project that binds to our generation by being born with a Prokop that is being made and here our children are born and grown up, the Prokop is still being made. Corridor 10 – highway, Corridor 11 – highway to Montenegro. Can we get some clear plan of how these serious structural problems will be solved? How will this share of Corridor 10 be done? Is it in the same way that these have been done so far? What's going on with the project documentation? When you talk to those who are moving deadlines today, and have previously defined them in only a familiar way, they say that the CIP did not do its job. If hundreds of engineers were engaged in the CIP, we actually gambled our time. Is that true or not true? First question. The second question, in which way, if true, will something like that be solved? If that's not the cause of the lack of project documentation, then what is it? Is that a political ride? If it's a political ride, let's say something like that. Don't let them come from Brussels to teach us that. At this point, they don't have any particular interest in anything like that. For what? Because they get, we pay them interest on funds that we don't normally withdraw, simultaneously make corridors across some other countries, the traditional transport that went through Serbia is getting smaller and smaller. We live in such a world, you and I know it, and everyone who deals with politics knows it. If we're not able to realise our interests, and we can't realize them if we don't define them first, we don't say what the goal is, what means will be achieved, in which way, no one else will do it for us. It's an ideal opportunity to take 20 minutes to deal with you personally. I think we should leave that opportunity for another situation. When there's a little more politics. If we're talking about roads, about Railways, about national aviation and companies, then I think we should, first of all, ask that fundamental question, how should this country be organised to be successful in these jobs. One ministry and one government could fail, a minister could be removed, but it is unacceptable that because of the political incompetence, inability and dishonesty to tell the truth, the systems that have been created and which generations of our children will not have the opportunity to create. That's why it's very important that you tell us what's going on. Did the state pay back the debts to the passengers? Is it or isn't it? Did we clear up with the way these debts came to be? We remember a period of two years ago when the contract between the company that the government owed the most to and the government was nearly halved for a long time, it wasn't, but from 300 to 170 million. How is it possible for the state to sign a 300 million contract first, and then it turns out to be 170 million. That's what the problem is. What companies do that? Believe me, none of us know it anymore, whether it's the Ways of Serbia, whether it's the corridor, whether it's the CIP, whether it's a private company, nobody knows it anymore. Now the holder of the work on corridor 11, Road Company, so instead of Road Company, the Užice Roads took over that part of the job, and now the Užice Roads are looking for a change of project. How? If they're looking for a change of project, was the project a bad one? If he was bad, let's see who's responsible for it and how those mistakes are gonna be adjudicated in the time ahead. Let's talk about a total of about 250m euros in loans we're taking. What's our status in the EPS? As in any other public enterprise, and we know very well, the average salary is 60 grand. Does the current have to collect? Electricity needs its price to form on the market. If the price is not marketable, the entire economic system of this country is being destroyed. Before the social account comes out, I think the government responsible for its public enterprise should question the efficiency of the system it manages. Whether it's managed in the most efficient way, or we need to wait for some TV shows to see what we can do in a big system like EPS. How long will that get us? Well, it's going to fail. The system will fail, like some who have made us indestructible. We're in the 21st century, we're talking about the Railways, every time we criticize you when you come here for 100 or 120m euros, to pay salaries to railway workers for a year, and we criticize you for that, and 3,000km of rail, and most of the railroads were made in the 19th century. Let's have a real picture sometime. Use this one and when you will return to the congregation and tell us the truth. Don't let me read to you now when you told me when Beska will be in May, what you said about March in January, it doesn't make any sense anymore. When are we going to get our way through Vojvodina? What's supposed to happen, do we have to go to work? It's a common problem for us. A frustrated country, a visionless society, we wander from today to tomorrow, plot about intrigues, and destroy what's best between us. Did we have a good construction industry? We had a good construction industry. Did she bear the economic development of this country from 2000 to 2008, she did. We've passed a disastrous law, everyone knows it's catastrophic. Seventy thousand people are out of work. There is no power within your ruling coalition to change something that is unsustainable. We're completely uncompetitive. Will the Turks work with us? The Turks want to work with us. Does the Chinese want it? They want the Chinese. When you talk to those same Turks and the Chinese, who want to work here, who bring their money, you're actually facing partners who are not clear what you called them, when you're doing everything against their interests and their initiatives. What's the problem with the bridge at Borca's? The Ministry of One is familiar with the project, and the other is not familiar with the project. There's no telling what the city is doing or what the ministry is doing, which we've suspended in the meantime. And 195 million is asking for a clear plan, and does the government know who's going to do the stock? Does he have any idea how effective work will be done? Is there a project? If it doesn't exist, when will it be made? We take and we know the deadlines and we know when the payoff starts, in six years, we know how to withdraw the funds, by 10 million in 20 tranches, we know when we can call, no later than 15 days before the tranche deadline. Do we have a project? Who was building the project? What guarantees do we have that whoever designed this project will be able to complete the job? Or were they making the ones that should change now? You've been brought into your ministry, which is so overloaded, you need filigree efficiency and precision. There's no pattern. We know what our priorities are, and that's how we have to put up a government. You're the Minister of Infrastructure, and you don't have telecommunications. You don't have any spatial planning. You lose all your time in agreement with those who took away the instruments you need to run your ministry. What's that efficiency? There's no way to do any of that if the government moved to 2013. That means that some other government will have to keep doing those jobs. What does our history teach us? That the new government should come and spend half of its mandate in the division of power and reckoning with those who previously led the country. First, your government annulled the tender and broke the contract we had with foreign companies to make that same Corridor 10, part through Vojvodina. What does the future government have to do with what you're doing? Just one clear plan and a deal that everybody knows. When we're driving through a hole, they're the same for you from the SPS and for us from the LDP. We insist on that clear plan. That's the twist I'm talking about. You've come to the Assembly, tell us that. What kept you from doing those jobs? Relations in your coalition? That's not an argument, Mr. Grouchy. It's not an argument, but it can be a topic of conversation. Let's say we don't accept that, it's a political responsibility, but we're willing to change something based on your experience. Let's change that. Who's our President of the Council? The President of the State. What does he have to do with the infrastructure? Does that mean he transferred his authority to that institution? If he transferred authority to that institution, then he was compromised in the business. There's none of that advice, nothing serious. We're not interested in compromising the president of the state, are we? We can criticise him and ask him to be better by the next term, and then we can run for office and ask for support for ourselves, and we can put out an account for his mistakes. But we have no right to build our position by destroying everything around us. Give us an argument. We're looking for 195 million. Who's doing the project? When will the project be completed? Who will be the bearers of the business? Have any of these experiences been appreciated on this section, which must be respected, in order for it to be completed differently from all these previous ones we've been stroking since you came to the head of this ministry two and three years ago? We have here, but it would be rude to even think about saying it's your interest. I think you were more interested in ending this before the deadline. Right? No one with that fact would have a problem. But we didn't do it. We've been through all the plans. Why? The Travelers are protesting us. We blew up the road economy, we destroyed it. Another problem – destroyed the construction industry. It's not just the result of the global economic crisis, it's the consequence of the internal inability to leave the politics of demagogy, populism, and the purchase of votes. You know how much it costs a mile of highway. No one travels to a country located at the end of the world, and it slowly becomes Serbia. When, in the campaign where we are all in place, you go to municipalities bordering Bosnia, Montenegro or Kosovo, then the people there tell you – there is no luck here because the bus is turning and returning here. It's slowly becoming our country. We've been making roads for 11 years. Those companies that were good at it, we destroyed them. The people who were capable of it, we spent it. Of course, money isn't something we can be proud of, we don't have it at all, we have to be in debt. If we have to be in charge, how are we going to get it back? Today 250 million for EPS and part of Corridor 10. Someone's got to get that back tomorrow. The EPS should be put in order. Before the power starts picking up, let's see what's going on in Colubara. Not that it's politics. That's why we have a problem with Europe. When they talk about fighting corruption, they do not mean bringing in individuals who have worked as porters at the gate, but rather think about the systemic measures that the state and politics will distance themselves from the ones in which it is unsuccessful. Unless it's meant to usurp power, which is undeniable, then finish something for yourself. I think that's the subject we need to talk about. Accept this dialogue. I don't want to waste the rest of my time, accept the dialogue, and I'll answer in your replica. As far as I'm concerned, that's enough for this part of the debate. But only the truth – why were you not successful in your work and what is a systemic obstacle? It's not enough to just want something. What do you think you're going to change, that this would be different from what you've been doing so far?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53269	Mr. Minister, before I give you my word, I am pleased to inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that a group of high school students, members of a delegation of the student parliament, is at the gym, and attends the session. Let me read their names. Attending are: Srdjan Balać, Katarina Bošković, Dalibor Vasić, Aleksandar Grgur, Predrag Grujić, Ivana Grunčić, Aleksandra Dronnjak, Sanja Dukulev, Natasa Dukuljev, Ognje Dulović, Gordana Dunai, Aleksandar Đukanov, Katarina Đukić, Lena Ilic, Dejana Ilic, Nebojsa Jankov, Nenad Kvrgić, Aleksandra Knezevic, Aleksandar Kovčević, Andrea Koč, Đorđe Lazić, Karolina Lodi, Sara Losonc, Maksimlijan Majer, Ognjen Mečić, Zorana Milojevic, Miloš Mirković, Dragan Pajrić, Ivana Pjurica, Ivana Podunavac, Milan Radović, Miljana Radović, Vladjana Radić, Vladjana Radić, Ivan Radović, Ivana Radović, Ivan Šavnić, Ervinić, Ruvić Mavić, Ruvić, Ruvić, Ruvić, Ruvić, Ruvić and Ravić. Let's give them a round of applause. Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53270	I welcome our young citizens. I'll be a little bit more careful, otherwise I'd like to answer to Mr. Jovanovic a little bit sharper, and we can do that later. That's a nice question you asked me, especially my pleasure. Only one correction, these kids upstairs are young, but most MPs here know that I haven't been hiding behind the authority of anyone, not even the president of the state, and everything I've done, I've only done professionally and in the way I thought I should. That's what I'm doing today. So, Mr. Boris Tadic is the president of the state and I would never let what I'm doing challenge him. Of course there are problems I want to talk about here right now, but there are things that aren't for this composition here. The government works uniquely, does what it does. I'm the Minister of Infrastructure and Energy right now. There is only one construction engineer at the Ministry of Energy and Infrastructure. Mr. Jovanovic, it's me. The ministry is unconceived and where luck is there that in the next government it is called the Ministry of Transport and Transport, as in all countries of the world. Construction of infrastructure projects particularly goes the other way or as we did today -- special enterprises are being formed, and they have always been. Professor Micunovic remembers it, just like I do, the directorate for the construction of this railway, those railways, Đerdapa etc. Thanks to this coalition, and that's the only political line I'm going to say, in my start in the economic development programme, she put the corridors, first of all Corridor 10, travel and rail, I've accepted that I'm wearing that job. I am the sole responsibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Jovanovic. What have we done so far? Personally, I leave it to the experts to assess that you're criticizing me again, that it's the right thing to do if a big project like this puts the whole state behind it. That tells me my 40-year experience. I'm not going to mention rebuilding the country, where I had absolute support from everyone, and that's why she gave the results, not because I'm so smart. My proposal was to form a council. It's shaped the way it is. The council worked well, good grades were made, and who was making such statements was the matter of our political education. I'm asking you from today when you're talking about Corridor 10 information you're basically asking me to do. I don't comment on who said what. So, by forming the Council, we just confirmed the definition that the infrastructure, which on all the scales of European criteria, was the worst, we all know that, because years before that, it was not done, it wasn't done, I'm not going to get into it, it wasn't good, and we've defined ourselves for it. I've never used the word crisis in my actions. The only projects I consider to be positive in the area of infrastructure are the Corridor 10 projects, roads and railways, Corridor 11 to Cačka, positive. I will immediately answer Mr. Jovanovic, and let Mr. Shami check – what does this mean, a net foreign exchange inflow from traffic? It's cheapest in the world, but the state has to build objects, railways, so international trains can pass, and then it's easily collected in Europe, they can make way for cars to pass, airports to land, take the money and fly away. It's a condition. Unfortunately, our infrastructure, from my time, from your time, is as it is, as we found it four years ago. I'm not getting into it at all, and I wouldn't comment on it. So if we know all that, then the net foreign exchange inflow based on Corridor 10, which is now around 120 million, over the next 10 years will increase by a new 120 million. The project is cost-effective and I always point out that the opposition has always been in a position to vote for all the laws relating to Corridor 10, that it may be one of the points where we should seek the absoluteity of the community. I think we already have it. Of course, counting on the objective difficulty in which the state is located. I'm not talking about the crisis at all. There's no crisis. I didn't believe that the world's money and money would come from the European banks either. When that money came, from that moment on, I started giving deadlines and making people work. Of course, I know that wild privatisation took a toll on our businesses. It doesn't matter who did it. Of course, I knew our companies couldn't bring a million cc's of gravel from central Serbia to the north for a year, and that our oil was bad, and it's ours. NIS is ours, so whenever our builders buy oil outside, then intervention comes, Dacic calls me, so I chase, etc. But not to talk about it. These are the objective difficulties I've seen. There were no other difficulties. So, Mr. Jovanovic, we've finished all the major projects. I wouldn't go into the details, but these main projects were distributed by companies that worked with us, and it was always the basic parameter that we had to hire our businesses. I claim that our experts in the area of designing traffic infrastructure are still top-of-the-line, regardless of the CIP. We can talk about the CIP later. I haven't been in the CIP in 12 years, and you know it. But there are good experts. So the main projects are done. The expropriation was done in part, but I hope it's already at the end where it was supposed to be, that they're not waiting for the world's money, because expropriation and projects don't pay the world's banks, and the expropriation costs us about 130 million euros and projecting somewhere around 50, for major projects in Corridor 10, which are all over today. I'm sorry if some bridge isn't finished somewhere, but it's always going to be, that's the process of change and let me sometimes have to be that way, but at least the press doesn't call me the biggest liar. But if it hadn't been for those deadlines, it wouldn't have been a mile today. So the projects and the necessary expropriation we have completed and provided a billion and 195 million world money, and we have allocated 35 billion in dinars from our budget. The Republika Srpska Assembly has done everything. As far as that goes, you don't have to do anything else. You're looking for results and it's okay. Where are we today? In order to achieve the goal of getting money from world banks, we first had to show that as a country in those projects we were going and that's why we started there on the shares that were projected, and they weren't major projects done by a mile of highway. The ideas were and the spatial plan was, but the main projects weren't done and we were doing the segment parallelly, so in the north we started 20 km, in the south 20 km, we finished the bypass, what the previous government did and the bypass around Novi Sad, which was already started and we end the Beška bridge. That's what we showed all the world's banks, you have contacts with them, and ask them that we're interested. Then came the money we're talking about. Today absolutely, what you're looking for, we can say, plus-minus a month. I have to remind you, 500 miles of highway on Corridor 10, don't take my word for it, we've entered the upgrade. So there's no double tape everywhere, we got one, half, we got a whole highway somewhere. We're at the end of a 200-mile highway. I'm sorry, it's a project that's been looking for a while. Since you have communication, check in Croatia how it was done. Of course, we've been here a long time, and you're absolutely right, you've lost it in the organization, not because the coalition is who it is. Seeing as you believe me, there are probably better experts than me, but that job I knew I was doing. We were simply looking for a model of how to do it to the end, without costing us much, so we said -- the JP "Serb Roads" maintains regional and highway routes, and "Serb Corridors" or Corridor 10 will, as it was originally, build. It's the best, most efficient version yet. I repeat, the Ministry doesn't have that prerogative. We only used part of the budget, which went from the NIP, there were a lot of delays, I agree, through the NIP and through me, it was about six billion, it went over the budget, and that's our domestic assets. The rest are all World Bank loans. We found about 250 million loans around Belgrade: the Gazela Bridge, bypasses, a circular route, etc. And those loans were activated today. Today, in the travel economy, there is not a single World Bank credit or European banks that are not in office. As we do, it's a special story, but they're all activated, it's the government's position, to say that we have the opportunity to work and that, which was the hardest part, we hire our businesses. Don't be angry, there are a lot of different opinions, I am obliged, as Minister of the Republic Government, to hire our workers. You've heard that a few times, it wasn't my political parole, I didn't even want to fire the government workers. It's just my job to hire these people. That's the case with these people who were at my place yesterday. They object to wild privatisation, not because they don't have a job, because privatisation wasn't good, management, I say openly, it's no good, but there are 5,200 of our employees in the company. So, these are my employees, they weren't at my place yesterday, but I went downstairs and got them. So, there are problems in that organization, I said two about transport and about NIS. That's not the problem, I'm saying to justify, Mr. Jovanovic, the difficulties I've had, but the ones we've overcome. So today you don't need my guarantee. "Serb Corridors", such as the DOO with 25 engineers, are no more, led by Mr. Misic, who has his own board of directors, which contains five experts, are not politicians, where no SPS member, which is constantly resented by my comrades on the left, the company is run by Corridor 10, credits are on him and is responsible for the realisation of the job. The ministry has, as the first sentence says, control over the job, and "Serbia's Roads", as a public enterprise, is tasked with maintaining regional and highway routes. And it has its own board of directors, where there is also no socialist. The total budget of the Road of Serbia is around 300m euros and some million euros. It's not much, but it doesn't matter if I don't talk about it. It's a condition today. Once again, we're working on a 170-mile highway today. Where, Mr. Jovanovic? In the north of 120 km, there's a "Epsilon Leg." One thing we need to understand is to make it easy on my soul, and I see that Mr. Jovanovic is interested in it, the "pission leg" wasn't projected at all, you're right, it wasn't even planned, but when you get into such an investment, and when you know that it started 10-20 years ago, I see that you know everything and it makes me happy, I'd like you to go down that road with me once. The citizens have suggested that we end up as half the highway as well. So that we don't ask for money again, as we are now chasing money for a tour of Belgrade from the world and European banks, because these are difficult roads, we said – okay, let's go 23km and that "pissilone arm", and we'll project. It's not a secret, it's not political marketing. And Subotica will get two legs, bypass, throw out cargo traffic from Subotica and the citizens of Subotica will have that part of the road. It's the only thing that's been unknown. It's also a problem today, because it needs to move power lines, etc., but we're going to be a little late, so there won't be any more deadlines on July 1st, but in the north we're going to end up 120 km, from Horgos to Novi Sad 88 km, those 23 km connected to the "Epsilon Krak" and 10 km ahead and behind the Beška Bridge, that's with the Beška Bridge about 9-10 km and 2.5 km roundabouts where the pipeline is crossing, because it wasn't solved, and now we're solving it. So, in total, we're going to shut down those 150km and more, the northern leg of Corridor 10 of Batajnica, which also started working yesterday, to Horgos, the highway will be finished, with that at the Beška Bridge, yesterday I was on the bridge, maybe move for a month or two days, I'm sorry, I really haven't raped the deadlines, because the bridge is still, sometimes the dead people, will be finished, with the shops that have to be done after that, maybe August, but I think we can have the whole north over on July 1st. The government is in office, so the 150km will be completed. I repeat again, that's half the highway. It'll be over in July. As far as the south is concerned, it's done in two places, one refers to the border towards Dimitrovgrad, where the Alps performs works about 20 kilometers long, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank, half-half, can give you an exact specification and I know it by heart. Jobs go by the dynamics that have been drawn, part of the business, half of what around Dimitrovgrad is supposed to be done by the end of this year, contracts all exist there in the Directorate, and this second part by May next year. In the south there is a share from Neradovac to Levosoja, half of the shares received by the Greeks, about 10km, which began to work and the deadline for completion is May next year. So that's what we're doing, that's that 170 kilometers. I remind you that there are also three large buildings on the section from Bubanj Potok to Orlovaca, which are three bridges, and in such projects there must be phase construction, tunnels and bridges are the hardest. They start first. It's also a Stražice tunnel, it's done since the last time, and it's supposed to be over this year. So Dobanovci-Batajnica and that part around Belgrade are due to be completed by the end of this year and the second part by May next year. It's all still at the age of 12. As for the World Bank's tender for shares from Grabovnica to Grdelica, it's about eight kilometers, 36-37m euros, it's called, we'll have a contractor on April 12th, so, please, Mr Jovanovic has gone over it, maybe it's not his, he doesn't need to know when, why, where I often disagree with the media, and I want to really speed up. When it enters the process of carrying out contracts between the world banks and the European Bank and each bank, their procedures must be respected. That means every move we're making is being sent to the bank, the bank is sending a response, but there's no intervention, although I've already started somewhere and there's no interference, there's no intervention, then it's 15 days, a month, etc. So, the moment the tender is over, I say on April 20th there will be two tenders for Neradodovac, Vladic's Han, 26 kilometers and Grabovnica - Grdelica 8 kilometers, these are World Bank's money, the tender ends on April 12th, so we should expect the beginning of the works in May and on those shares. Then there's just a piece of the Gredile ravine, the hardest part, and there's Predejane, and I know what the next question is, probably, it's the hardest part, I can't guarantee it, but if we discuss the tender, we'll talk to him for sure by the end of August of this year, then we'll see that we fight to get it over with. As for the stock from Nis to Pirot, the stock from Proseko to the Red River is now being prepared for the tender. These are the European Investment Bank's money and shares from Piroth to Ciflika's already launched tender and will begin the works in April. So, it's only 26 kilometers around Pirot. To short the story, of those 330 kilometers that we're talking about, 24 kilometers through the Grill, the hardest share, and 26 kilometers around Pirot, relatively heavy shares, those two shares, means about 50 kilometers, I'm not sure, but I expect to call the tenders by the end of August. So, I have no personal reason, you're absolutely right, to be satisfied, but in the conditions in which we've been working, and since we've finally started this job, I'm satisfied. This year, let me say, about the corridors will be completed those 150 kilometers in the north completely and what I've said about these shares that have started working, except there's always the tunnels, there's construction tunnels, so rarely anyone who gave, Mr. Jovanovic, deadlines, rarely who, I agree with you. I don't know what would happen, and personally, when you ask me, now I won't say, personally, I would be pleased that in half the term of the next government we end it. Now what is the situation we can do, believe me, with all these diseases for which I am absolutely responsible alone. No one in the government is guilty, no matter what the consultations, I could resign and get away for the first time when I saw that I wasn't alone, of course. But there are no big stories about corruption, because we respect all the norms, all the ones I've often broken in my career, to understand each other. So big projects, come on, this sentence will probably go to the media, looking for the improvisation of the one who leads and risks. I just said, I'm willing to risk the job done. Of course, and go to jail if I have to. That's why I need your support in this very sense that you're talking about right now. Just don't criticize me for standing behind someone's back, please don't insult me, and this is all right. So, the Assembly, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, did, this is not a phrase, all of it, and I keep pointing out, a full consensus on the meaning of the implementation of these projects, now in the government remains, one or the future, to finish it. As for the railroad, of course, I did not, as a man who spent 40 years in that building, allow us to enter the improvisation of this project, because it is a much harder project and much more important for our country because it is worth four billion. So, what's a railroad, what's a railroad program? That on our tracks, on Corridor 10, we're going at this famous speed, which you often criticized me for, from 160 to above, to be a two-wheel track everywhere, and I remind you that today from Nis to Dimitrovgrad we have a one-wheeled, unelectricated, it's not even in Texas, an old track, and that, it's Corridor 10, it's the weakest place in Corridor 10, that the electric line is all over the length and it's for mixed traffic. That's the goal, Mr. Jovanovic, that's the railway goal and it costs four billion and 600, and that project is 18 years old exactly, I wore it in 1993. I remind you that even then, we had an agreement with the French before these sanctions, that they would enter into that railroad and realize it. It's a great opportunity for the Serbian economy. We're not going in there like this, we're going to go in the way we really need to. We work where we're willing to work and realize those projects that are of paramount importance. I remind you once again, a government cannot take its own task to realise such large projects. As for Prokop, you know that we've tried and now, there's credit, and I've talked about it a few times. I wasn't a supporter of commercial loans that are given here so that the job would get someone else, the one that gives money, which makes sense in some way, well, we pay back the money. Now it's not fair to say, Chinese bridge, I'm not in progress, I can't talk, we understand each other, but you know it well. So Prokop is now in such a phase and he was two years ago in such a phase that it's hard to find an investor who can figure out what we were doing there, and I of course. Then we defined ourselves as that Russian variant, not because I love the Russians, but because there's equipment on the railroad that the Russians are giving us, which we don't have. Again to keep some of the work for us, and let's get some of the work done by the Russians, and that's where we split the 800 million half, let's say 400 million can be done by our builders, and the other 400 million is also for the bar track, for the reconstruction of the bar track and for Valjevo-Loznica, the equipment and the machines that we don't have anyway, that's the essence. That's why the arrangement is good, provided that interest, Mr. Cirovic, leads the business, is of course the way it is in the European Bank. It's waiting for Prokop, the first term is, don't take my word for it again, April 15 when that main Russian comes, and we'll see what we do. We're done with the projects. I don't know where the idea that our projectors aren't good is, but, well, you can tell me that. They may not be organized in the right way, and these are our enterprises of the Institute of Roads and the Transport Institute of the CIP, they have 1,500 people, there are three or four other companies, the Vojvodina Road Center from Novi Sad, he does a lot of projects there, so our designers are good. Now, if you'll excuse me, I don't know what else you asked me, these are key things. I'd be happy to take down Corridor 10 as a mortgage. You know everything today, no secrets, and you give me a responsibility, write me a proposal to be replaced, here, I agree right now. Now write a proposal – The Dark One is guilty of Corridor 10. I'm not going back, because 65 billion, let's say, have entered the country since 5 October. So, where are they? Don't interfere and don't defend me, there's no need. When one of the heads of government tells me – I ask what you are not when there was money, what is a billion-and-a-half for the highway and hire our businesses? He says he had no one to push, we had two billion in 2006, so we didn't push it. I'm sorry, I'm not going to ask you that, Mr. Jovanovic, but I'm responding to what you said. I'd like you to be my guest and I'd like to show you all this one more time. Please once again, the organisation in the realization of these major projects, it should be a good experience, is this: Serbian Corridors run the business, Serbian Ways maintain roads, and this is today such an organization. So don't claim to be chaos, there's no chaos. We made a long deal, but we made a deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53271	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53272	I'll have two minutes after your 23rd. Mr. Mr. Gristle, it's not a matter of personal responsibility. So what, you resign and then what? We're interested in the government, we're not interested in the Council. You and if you wanted to hide behind the president's back, I don't think you'd be too successful at it, 'cause everyone's stuck behind it. But something else is the subject. Do we have an Infrastructure Council? Well, that advice needs what you just said. I can't even count those shares anymore, August, when what's going to happen, and that's the most concrete job this country needs to know about. You mentioned the name of a man we know nothing about. The most important man, if this country's economy is spoken of, is the man who manages the business of turning a billion and 200m euros. We don't know who he is, he doesn't exist in our public life. Why? That's the darkness. Do you know what's going on between you, what's the problem, that's another question? No vision, no magnetism that drives society. In these projects, people don't see their chance. Domestic companies have failed in state projects. Did Planum fall on a bypass around Belgrade? It's gone. Did the Bridge fail in the affairs in which it was employed by the state? It's gone. Well, the PPP went down in state affairs, didn't go down in Libya. "Countary" in state affairs. The state is the biggest debtor at this point, I'm not saying your ministry, your state. EPS, Railways, it's not good for our oil. Well, you know what, we've been saying that for three years. So what we expect from you is something that's completely different from what you've offered. It's the easiest thing we'll do with your resignation, but it's too cheap for what we're talking about. This country is an infrastructure cripple, a cripple. In your term of office, our national air carrier is failing, and in your term there is a national railway at the level of the historical invoice. She can go to some tech museum. The airport in Nis failed, right? It can't be held commercially.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53273	Two minutes. Thank you. The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53274	I didn't answer, I'm sorry. As for Railways, of course the railway reform, I remember that for 40 years again, is one important segment. She's been brought all the way. The railroad will be reformed. How? That's it. I filed a report to the Traffic Committee two weeks ago on the subject, so that this infrastructure, like everywhere in Europe, will be separated from transport, and the infrastructure will take over the state, and transport will get maximum liberalisation, so anyone who wants to drive our country can drive. Therefore, it was brought to an end. And that reform, I say, at least in five I took part, this one, however, is finished. The same thing is with JP "Serbia's Ways". And we've brought this reform to an end. It just takes government decisions. As for the air carrier, I remind you again, my first question was when I accepted the post of minister – what about the companies that are privatizing, I don't like selling the word? He says they're in the domain of another ministry. Again, I'm sorry to say, I haven't even dealt with JAT as long as they were in the domain of another ministry. When we didn't find a partner for JAT, he was returned to the Ministry of Infrastructure. We have now moved, brought new managers, agreed with them, these are JAT's own people, gave them a loan guarantee, and you've made a decision about 50 million to end this year's money, and to provide partners by the end of the year, or, if they don't provide it, the government has already made a decision, that we go bankrupt and make a new company. My opinion is that we have to have an airline. As for this job that he's doing right now, he's also elected a privatization expert and we paid for it. It's Dilloyt and Tush, who now runs that activity along with JAT management. You know what you want. It still has to take some time to get it over with. As for the railroad subsidies, everywhere in the world, Mr. Jovanovic, you know as well as I do, all railways are subsidized everywhere. There's no railway anywhere that isn't subsidized, but we've tried another thing, that we're also reducing these subsidies precisely because of what I'm talking about, to show Parliament and Parliament what the internal reserves on the railway are. If the subsidy decreases and we want to give some bonuses for a billion, let's see what we have to do. It is now in the railway restructuring process and will be adopted and on the agenda. You'll have that information very soon. And that's the question we've raised, and we've followed those laws that you've criticised me for, and if any law has been moved somewhere, it doesn't matter, I accept criticism, he's in agreement with Mrs. Delevic's office, but by April 15th, all the traffic laws will be in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53275	Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53276	Very clearly, if we're talking about projects, none of us have a dilemma in the ability of people, but we have not a dilemma, but obvious facts that speak of the incompetence of organizations in which these people are engaged. These are the same institutes that made roads 30 or 40 years ago, bridges 30 or 40 years ago, won international tenders in the world's largest projects. They're the same people. We're talking about an organization. If the Council worked well, where are the results? No results, no results that the Council has set as its own goal. Something very important, Mr. Mrkonjic, you're talking about not having such a ministry as yours. You mention the Ministry of Traffic and Transport, for example, as something that makes sense. We had a government reconstruction, so why hasn't it changed? We had a government reconstruction so the government would self-construct itself through reconstruction. Here we are today -- a society demotive, people with no perspective, companies at risk, can't stay a third year underwater. That's a problem for the state. What happens after the election? All right, we'll come to power. What are we going to get in that power? The ruins again. I'm behind what we did by 2003. The money that came into the country then was the money that changed this country. The billions you're talking about are billions that were gambled in the period after the assassination of the Prime Minister, who didn't have the kind of dilemma that followed many after him in this country. He was ready to reform the country and change it, and there were results. That's when the roads were made that we're still driving today, regionally, interstateally. Then they started these projects, made contact with the world. Responsibility, of course, is always first personal, but in this case, this is the responsibility of the entire government. She is unable to do this job, and the fact that they would hide behind you, as they hide behind Tadic, it cannot be acceptable for us this time. First, the Prime Minister, he led your team. He was here defending the reconstruction of a government that is dysfunctional in the most important government business, which employs a billion and 200 million. I understand that as an epilogue of this discussion of ours. (President: Two minutes. ) That is why we cannot support this approach, not because we want Serbia to end up in muddy juice, but because it is clear that we will continue to melt. Cvetkovic should come here, so he can say how what has not been done so far will be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53277	People's MP, replica time has been used. Thank you. The minister wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53278	I appreciate your attitude, but I disagree with you. This job I'm doing, I'm running and I'm responsible for it, and I absolutely advocate personal responsibility, but in all segments, including the MP. I claim that it is of paramount importance to us, and you will see it in the latest lists of the European Commission's assessment of where our infrastructure is today, just because we started to implement these projects. And that pick-up -- we don't need to go to Europe. No, we're building our country so we can live better. I never even talked about it, which doesn't mean I'm not for Europe again. We need to make roads and railways right here, and I say it's a driving force, and when we talk about investment, what you're talking about right now, that billion and 200 million euros that are entering our country. Of course, that should be said, that our companies, unfortunately, are not in a position to send all these tenders out, but I will try until the end of the term, or until it is replaced that our businesses are working on most of these jobs, and that will be a project that you will be proud of, Mr Jovanovic, too, and that is why I suggest you vote for this law and show your energy, your youth to stand behind Corridor as a project, and you propose me for a shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53279	The word is by MP Milos Radulovic, the authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53280	In the context of this debate, in addition to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, we also have two laws relating to credit responsibilities. One refers to a bill confirming an EPS guarantee contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, worth 40m euros. Loan funds are used to replace existing outdated numbers. With this replacement under the project, worth 83m and 700,000 euros, around 200,000 will be replaced. I don't think the citizens will be very happy about this, because just a few days ago, on April 1st, whether or not this date has been deliberately selected, because this government and everything it does seems like a first-april joke, the price of electricity has been increased by 13.5%. If you add a VAT to this base of 13.5%, essentially that increase is about 15%. So much electricity has cost the citizens of Serbia. At a time of great crisis and the fall of living standards, by increasing the cost of electricity, you have made life of citizens even more difficult anyway. Basically a very small number or practically, Mr. Mrkonjic, negligible, and you've heard that in the statements on most electronic media, there's a small number of citizens who say, and even the poorest ones, that they don't spend 350 kilowatts of electricity. The second credit relates to the draft law confirming the financial contract, Corridor 10, the E-80 highway between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The loan amount is 195m euros with a 30-year repayment deadline, a six-year maximum start and a maximum payment in 20 tranches. This loan is intended for the project, i.e. the construction of the shares of Prosec – Ciflik in the distance of 36 kilometers in the direction of Nis – Dimitrovgrad. The total value of this project is 391m and 200 000 euros, with the European Investment Bank providing 195m and 200 000 euros, remaining funds for a 72m and 500m euros loan, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 120m euros and a grant of 3.7m euros. The condition to get this loan is that the creditor, the European Investment Bank, can participate in lending this project with 50%. So far, funds from the European Investment Bank worth 600m euros, the World Bank 275m euros, the Greek government 100m euros, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 150m euros have been provided for the construction of Corridor 10. Otherwise, the European Investment Bank has already granted a loan to the Republic of Serbia of 384m euros for the construction of a highway along Grabovnica – Levosoje 75km in length, still on 23 October 2009, and that the route is not yet completed. Mr. Mrkonjic, back in 2009, when we held a loan debate here for Corridor 10, you said, I will remind you, I will quote what you said: "We have provided 1,125 billion euros to finance the construction of Corridor 10 through our country. Neither am I as the greatest optimist and lover of Corridor 10, bigger than Boris Tadic, I did not believe. Today I am proud of my new obligation to organize. "You have just told us who is most responsible for the construction of Corridor 10, you accept the blame on yourself, but in essence the most responsible President of the Infrastructure Council, Mr Boris Tadic, is who you cited in this statement when the debate was held in the 2009 Assembly. As DSS MPs, we have not disputed the loans relating to the construction of Corridor 10 and the need to complete it as soon as possible. In addition, in the economic programme DSS, one of the pillars of Serbia's development is the development of infrastructure and construction of Corridor 10. That is why they are neither controversial financial resources to achieve that goal. For us, the issue is something else, which is the disorganization and irresponsibility that this goal, like many others, is achieved. It is a feature of the government's work -- many promises made to citizens, and citizens show by their relationship to this government how much they believe and how satisfied they are with the fulfillment of those promises. Let's go back to Corridor 10 and the rest of the roads and all the promises made by this government of yours. Just to see what the government has done to this day. I will remind you once again of the discussion and what you stated during the debate at that session in 2009. "This year we only did what we did, to complete 20 kilometers south, to complete and only do the second tape. We don't brag about what wasn't done in the north and finish the tour around Belgrade, that's 48.5 kilometers. We also made all the arrangements necessary this year for them to be hit there next year. So, next 2010 we can realize 100 or 200 kilometers of highway and those there, in 2011, even so much. Then Corridor 10 would be finished. The goal is to finish Corridor 10 by the new government in 2012 and we'll do it. The corridor will be completed. "Mr. Grouchy, those are your words here in this assembly. One more thing, then you said that the billions and 125 million funds for the construction of Corridor 10 were provided and that it was a skill shown by this government that at the time of the crisis it was able to provide over the necessary resources. The problem is that for that over-needed asset, we pay the interest, and the funds are not used where they need to be. From that promise you made in the congregation, little has been fulfilled. It is obvious that out of this outlined goal of completing the work on Corridor 10 to 2012 there will be nothing. Mr. Mrkonjic, let's see what happened during the government's term of office for three years in general in Corridor 10, 2008 was a section of Ostruznica – Orlovac, a highway around Belgrade, half a highway in length of 7.7 kilometers; in 2009, the share of Levosoje – Presevo, half a highway of 21 km; in 2009. Horgos – Novi Sad, two half-way sections of 10 kilometers long; in 2010 a tour around Novi Sad, full profile, every honor, in the length of 12.5 kilometers. In almost three years, Mr. Mrkonjic, this government has completed only 12.5km of highway. You started work on a 150km highway, which is almost half of the total route, but you didn't finish anything. Mr. Milan Kovacevic said, I don't know if you've read that statement: "That's because you don't know who's drinking, and who's paying for it, which the three ministries and two companies covered the highway work and everyone in their portfolio looked only at their own interest, and the Ministry of Environment, and for infrastructure, and the Ministry of NIP and two enterprises, the Company for Roads and Corridor 10." As the people say, a small bar and a lot of crocodiles. You promised jobs for 100,000 workers on Corridor 10 during its construction, higher revenues than tolls -- 100m euros, new construction sites, new routes. The culprits for broken deadlines and unfulfilled promises are now wanted everywhere - in the ministries and among the contractors. One of the promises of this government is the construction of the highway Pojate-Kruševac-Kraljevo-Cačak by October 2011. It's just a promise left. No project documentation has been done either. A tender for project documentation was launched, performers were selected, so that according to the Deputy Prime Minister then, National Investment Plan Minister Verice Kalanovic, the tender would be annulled because he had no money. Mr. Mrkonjic, how long does the reconstruction of the bridge on the road route of Pojate-Kruševac take at Stalac? It's been almost a year, the reconstruction isn't over and the question is when. And anyway, what's the reason not to complete the reconstruction of that bridge? If it can't be done within some reasonable time frames of bridge reconstruction, then what about some big projects? For this year you announced the papers and deadlines for their completion on Corridor 10. I will remind you – Horgoš - Novi Sad 87 km, deadline July; Kelebia – Subotica 24 km, deadline October; tour around Dimitrovgrad 8.7 km, deadline May; Piroth – Dimitrovgrad 14.3 km, deadline May; Vladičin Han – Gornji Neradovac 26.3 km, deadline December; Donji Neradovac – Levosoje 15.8 km, deadline December; Grabovac – Grdelica 5.6 km, not 8 km, rock July. It's April now, you think anyone believes in your deadlines, in your travels? In May, more specifically on 11 May 2009, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic said -- works on the southern corridor begin within a month, and this year's plan to complete 40 km will be met. I'm sorry it hasn't been done in the past few years at least on so many highways a year, because in that case, a large part of Corridor 10 would have already been completed. It's been two years since he made that statement, and there's nothing from the south corridor for now. They started out as some road trip work in Lykovec. Machines have been brought in. You took a picture. The machines have been moved. Now it's said to be working in Unspeakable. You said in May 2007 – I have things under control. The papers won't stop anything anymore. I don't feel guilty about the delay of Corridor 10, because there's no delay. The papers won't stop anything. If I fail, I'll resign. I submit, the Corridor will be completed by 1 May 2012. This government won't even welcome 1 May 2012. If it had been for any responsibility, everyone in this government led by the Prime Minister would have resigned. What will remain behind this government? Unfinished roads, unstarted projects, the highest unemployment rate in Europe, 400,000 people who lost their jobs during this government, the lowest salary in Europe, the highest inflation, over a million people living below the poverty line. So it's just big promises and big delusions. What else can we expect? An additional 200,000 are announced to run out of work, an even bigger collection of life supplies, even worse, bad living standards and higher debts. Just since the beginning of the year, you've been in debt close to two billion euros. To cover the budget deficit, 500m euros. This year alone, we have to pay 230m euros for interest on the loans taken. By 2013, a billion euros should be paid. The external debt, as well as public debt, has grown so much that debt data indicate that the state and its citizens are threatening bankruptcy and debt slavery with this government. In the end, let me get this straight. The government's strategic objectives are to develop infrastructure and agriculture. It stands in all the statements of its own people in this government, the prime minister, the president of the state and economic teams. How much this government takes care of strategic goals and responsible policy towards citizens best shows a shortage of flour, its price and the price of bread. The bread "sava" is 55 dinars. It's a family 100 dinars. This kind of story about Corridor 10 best shows one headline in the newspaper – highway, three points, continues, like Julia Jones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53281	Used the time of authorized representative 17 minutes and 45 seconds. The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53282	I'm not gonna repeat what I already said. I understand the opposition struggle in parliament, but I don't think one serious party should perform so unseriously. What did you do before me? Why don't you say so, if you're fair? Tell me, what did you do before me? You didn't even know where Corridor 10 was. I'm not mad. You didn't know what Corridor 10 was. Now you're going to give the lectures. No, we have to explain ourselves once. You led the state, which you didn't make Corridor 10. In your time, there were two billion left in 2006, so you didn't do anything. You didn't even know what Corridor 10 was. Be at least that fair, so support the project. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Popovic, to ask him some things. Support the project and replace me. I said, you have the right as an MP, and you suggest I take my shift. You operate on false facts. You're from that neighborhood, so go around, go and see what's been done here. I ask – why hasn't Corridor 10 been done before me? Be so fair. I'm not old enough to be able to spit on anyone without being behind it. What did you do as an MP to make it better? If you're criticizing the government, I agree, I accept that criticism, but I personally don't allow you to act like one and say what's not true. I'm not going to deny it, because I've already said it three times, at least three times I've said it all here. I said everything you said, of course, and what I didn't do. Was it done 100,000 last year? It's done. Well, you're not the man who fell from Mars, at least you're some kind of businessman, at least you were considered a businessman. So what, to build a 100,000-mile highway in two days? I guess you knew that, at least be fair. We'll do it. We're three months late, so what's the big deal? What else have we done revolutionaryly, and let us say, help a little. I'm saying today, and everything you said in that part is true. Of course. We'll do 120,000 this year, we'll try another 20 or 30 to finish this year. We'll try to get to the famous number of 200 this year, but I can't guarantee it, in Grdelica where I don't know what else is waiting for us, that it'll be over by 1 May 2011. Please, when you operate, I said it three times, tell the facts. You took Corridor 10 as a reference now, but it's not good. It's not good, because it'll wait for you after that. Same thing. You'll be the minister behind me, probably. Well? But I'll never perform like that, but I'll appreciate the difficulties you're in. I said a little while ago, we talk about what was going on and what were the conditions. I repeat, as far as money is concerned, of course it's a big deal, that we have a billion and 200 million for concrete, real and sound projects, that there are states, not me. It was a big deal and it made me most of all die to finish it. Your criticism will hit me a lot where they're not real, where they're real, I know where I'm wrong. Please, I'm asking for your support. Don't fight the other way around the Corridor now. Say it - the Corridor is the project, but you, Mrko, are not for it. I'm not mad at you at all. I don't need that at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53283	The People's MP Milos Radulovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53284	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, if you listened carefully, I said that we did not dispute the need to make Corridor 10 and that these funds were not controversial. That's a fact. Once again – in the economic programme DSS, one of the strategic goals is to build Corridor 10. (Milutine Mrkonjic, from the place: I didn't hear that, I apologize.) Just something to tell you, don't take this personally. So here we're talking about the government, the government's work, no one's neglecting some of your efforts to show it's over. But let's be exact then. (Milutine Mrkonjic, from the place: give me a little commendation.) ) Let me tell you what was done at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica – in 2004 Beška-Belgrade, left lane of highway, 33 kilometers. Is it true? In 2005, the U.S. - Roast-Rabovnica, highway, 22 and a half kilometers. Is it true? In 2006 - New Sad-Beška, left lane highway, 19.22 kilometers. Is it true? In 2006 Comren-Average, highway 14 kilometers long. That's the stock. That's what's done, what's done. We do not argue that there was a preparation, as you should say, that there was a preparation at the time of the previous government to complete a certain highway. That's a fact. Please, you don't have to take this as a personal nickname. So we are simply talking about the responsibility and desire of all citizens of Serbia, as well as of us MPs to end something that is the strategic interest of all of us in Serbia as soon as possible, and that is the conclusion of Corridor 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53285	The word is from MP Mico Rogovic, authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I don't want to talk about your participation in the government, it really is, perhaps in an impressive period until 2000, when you were an important political factor, I don't mean you, but the party you come from, and then some results existed in that part and segment, but what happened after that with the construction operation, and you and I know that well. I don't want to talk about your participation in the government from 2004 to 2007, because you were wondering at the time, and you're talking about this government, and I don't want to talk about this government where you don't take an important political place either, given the strength of your party in this ruling coalition. I have to tell you that, not you, but the party, you are probably a little detached from your principles, principles, ideologies, since, specifically for your ministry now combined, you represent the ministry, as your colleague said, which raised the price of electricity by 15% in Serbia, automatically and other costs. My basis for today's presentation in the context of the SNS parliamentary group will be on the first draft of the law, i.e. the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, otherwise, the law amending most of the old bill, most of the members, but there are so many criminal provisions that you are also criminal provisions, and for that, you must admit, you and your ministry have almost doubled, thereby disrupting the important functioning of both Serbian citizens and physical entities and, normally, businesses, as the most important vessels of this society. As I have told you another example, or suggestion to you, chairing, that you pass on to the President of the National Assembly and to the Secretary, that legislative proposals, especially when it comes to an emergency procedure, cannot come to the procedure, or cannot wait for us at home addresses, at MPs' clubs on Thursday night or Friday, as was the case with this set of legal regulations, even before. We are usually not here for these days and are not all Members of Belgrade, in order to prepare ourselves in quality, counting on me and all my colleagues in this respected home, it is necessary, especially the laws of emergency procedure, to deliver them in time, and it is necessary, Mr Minister, that you also do not allow the laws in the process of emergency procedure. What's the emergency? In doing so, I must also remind you of the European Commission's position, which you are calling upon, which in part of the 2010 report, which refers to the Republic of Serbia, on the 5th section of the National Assembly, has made these views: "It is still actively working on the adoption of new laws. However, the quality of the results of the legislative work suffered due to the practice of passing laws by an urgent procedure. This practice continues to resort frequently, even in the case of applicable system laws, there is not enough public debate on the content and impact of the bill." That is quite enough reason for the fact that what I have presented in the previous part and the leadership of parliament, as well as the representatives of the government, or ministers and prime minister, to be respected and do not behave in this manner with very important and systemicly important laws in the assembly procedure. What is important for your ministry, Mr. Minister, I must point out, nothing personal, about your ministry, about people who are your associates and who are preparing certain legislative proposals, which you represent here, as a representative of this ministry, is that from your ministry lately, I am particularly referring to the frameworks of the old ministry that you've been running, come the laws that are unclear, as is the case with amendments and additions to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, not to say that they're misspelled, and given the comments we're going to make on the draft of this first bill, you'll see. We really do not see the reasons for some solutions why they are like this because they are also a brake for economic operators and for the economy, so that by increasing unnecessary obligations, the conditions for working and creating, in any case, the problematic existence of the rest of the economy, the high costs continue to be their threat to existence. We are, or the SNS is, submitting a solid part of the amendment, which we really think you should accept at the very least, in order for the law to be of a much better quality, especially for economic operators, although I am now, Minister, really giving you one proposal regarding this first law. Here, you give us a 30-day deadline, we'll try and make a second bill, a brand-new law, and then the public, you and the representatives of your ministry, decide which law is better. So much for the first draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, on Corridor 10 and other things. I really wouldn't talk, there was enough talk. After all, it is not only the highways in Serbia that are the only important road infrastructure. The other day, your coalition associate, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, reminded you that Serbia is not only 30km from Belgrade, not personally, but all of you from the government, and when you start, for example, in western Serbia, then grab your head, what, where and how. Here, I have to get to Baja's garden today. Which way to go and how to go to Baja's garden? This also applies to the M-21 highway to Koseric. That, Mr. Minister, also refers to the Kokin Ship-New Varosh Road section, which you opened six months ago, which has not yet been completed. There's been a lot of talk about highways. There is a shift, but not clear enough, given the goals that you, forming this government, gave to the citizens of Serbia and to the promises that you yourself, as minister and representative of the government, in this sector, have indeed passed deadlines long ago. Now, according to some of your announcements, we should be charging tolls on some of the highways, Mr. Minister, and we haven't finished certain shares. So the last time you were the representative of the international road transport promoter, when you were the legislator of that law in the Assembly, you said, by circumstances, that I was also on behalf of the SNS explaining that law, or making remarks after the law was passed, you said to submit amendments. Here, now we've tried to really amend this law, no matter what you accept, it's impossible, the law that says it was passed in 1995, has been changed on many occasions. I think that even now, except for the part of the taxi carrier, the rest of the law is a very high burden on the economic operators, and we'll prove it through discussion and proof, and hopefully you'll be able to look at the amendments. We don't really put conditions here as parts, or members, of your coalition, which support you, so they say, we will vote in favour of this law if you adopt some important amendments. Well, you're with the representatives of your coalition, maybe you were out at that moment, so you didn't hear that part of the speech, you were supposed to be with the representatives of your coalition before the law was passed in the assembly procedure to sit down to agree, to accept all their amendments, not here part of the ruling coalition to play the opposition at this time and the opposition to you. Unbelievable. That's why you're looking for support in us. Because that support, apparently on this side, of your left, as you say, is not complete at this time and at some other moments, and is conditioned by amendments to this bill. In order to explain some things, I hope that your representatives who have done this proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on Transport in Road Transport have not found it difficult, for example, to compare some of the laws in the environment, to compare the laws in the EU, because we are all calling on the EU and we should respect European standards. I am sorry that you did not refer to one strategic document in your opening presentation, which is the Strategy for the Development of Railway, Road, Water, Air and Intermodal Transport in RS in the period from 2008 to 2015, the cause of travel infrastructure in all areas mentions developments in the 1990-2000 period, and where in the Head of Transport Systems Development and the improvement of the competitiveness of domestic carriers on the transport market it is noted that our legal regulations should comply with EU legislation. Therefore, in the further part of my address, to you and the public, I will compare a legal proposal from the environment, from the Republic of Slovenia, to prove to you that what we, the SNS, in the light of amendments and in the light of some other proposals, we have proposed to you, as representative of the ruling coalition, and that it would not often, in the Assembly, change the laws every six months, which were not long ago in the procedure and lost every day for such a thing, by several million dinars only for the assembly debate. So, I'm going to make a parallel between the Slovenian road traffic law and the amendment proposal and the addition of the laws that you sent us to the Assembly. Here in Article 20 of the Slovenian Law it is permitted to use a rental vehicle for transport. Listen, Mr. Minister, at the end of the presentation, I'm going to give you the law really in Slovenian, but as you say, you're just like me a little bit more, but really an old generation, I hope that language has no reason not to understand, because we lived in that big country. It's not easy to translate that text, those young people who earn have time to learn some languages, it's no problem. In the meantime, they'd better do it than some other stuff. So, the Slovenian law, in Article 20 of that law, allows for the rental of a vehicle to be used for transport. Our law expressly forbids it. Then, only one vehicle is prescribed in Slovenia for line transport, Mr. Minister, and you are looking for at least three as a representative of the socially responsible authority. In Slovenia, we only need one vehicle, and in order to be registered, you are looking for three vehicles under the new law. It's for a line-up. Also, Slovenian law does not require that extra-line passenger transport can be carried out on buses. I have to remind you, and you know it well, I hope you've been around, that Slovenian local rural roads are better than our freeways. This is what we asked for with the amendment. What of these differences can be concluded? It is concluded that our government is making every effort to prescribe the most difficult conditions to carry out economic activity that really prevents the development of the economy and cannot be determined what it is positive to gain. I hope you'll take some of these comments and try to give an answer. Which is why in our country, in the RS, conditions for doing some work, for economy, are far more complex and uninsultably more difficult than in the environment, for example in Slovenia. The lagging behind and the situation in our economy is largely the result of the adoption of a poor set of legal regulations, when I say a poor set of legal regulations, partly refers to the first draft of the law, given the changes that it is necessary to make so that this law would not be an obstacle to survival. I can't talk about the development of the economy, I can talk about the survival of the economy in RS. I hope that our efforts, the efforts of the SNS parliamentary group, will be able to convince you of some of the necessary changes to the existing Road Transport Law. Once we move one step further, here in Article 45 of the Slovenian Law, it is permitted that line transport can be carried out by a smaller vehicle than eight seats. An eight-seat vehicle, plus a driver, on lines where there's no bus work. You want to claim that our transporters operate on lines that are profitable, on lines that have a need for 24 or more passengers, which is an example of practice. I hope you're the man who frequents Serbia. For example, I was almost convinced that on the way to Priboj – Belgrade over 300 km, a registered car carrier that owns several, even dozens of buses, rides that line. Why? Because there are no passengers on that line. I have personally made sure that in interstate traffic on the Skopje line – Užice minibus is not half filled with passengers at any time. Then what are we talking about, Mr. Minister? What kind of social responsibility, what kind of situation you're going to bring the business entities involved in this business, or perhaps this law, you intend to introduce some new entrepreneurs into this area, and that the existing operators involved in road transport are eliminated from this area. Or it is about the competition that needs to be introduced into this business, and it is certain that the existing economic operators will indeed be at risk in their operation at this point in time after the adoption of this law. The worst is what you predicted, and it is like nowhere in the world inappropriate fact that you give such small and short legal deadlines to comply with the regulations, within two months and within three months give to carriers who do not have buses on the lines and buy buses. Are you, Mr. Minister, ready to separate subsidies for this part of the business? What's this about? Once-in-the-EU licenses to all modernised countries cannot be lost by passing a new law, but are in force until the time when the licence has been issued, and existing economic operators cannot be made more difficult by doing this job, and what you are really doing with the bill. I'm telling you that the amendments we've tried to mitigate things, although the fact remains that on behalf of the SNS I suggest you leave a 30-day deadline and give another draft of a legal solution and compare it with this proposal and then see your co-workers in the ministries, which you say you choose by your expertise, and when you enter your ministry site, Mr. Minister, there's no biography about any of your state secretary and assistant. Are we supposed to be looking for biographies for your secretary of state and your assistants? You say you chose them by expertise. By expertise, someone ends up where it doesn't have to end. But you can't answer for people in your own name, but you can answer and answer for the laws you're proposing here. Indeed, indifference is in the work of your team to pass this law. There's little time in this part of the debate. I will also look more closely at this law and when it comes to details, or amendments. Also, in the part that you have done well, which is car taxi transport, there is a situation that in Slovenia you have the possibility of a taxi driver and taxi carrier registering in several municipalities. What does it accomplish, Mr. Minister? It is achieved that the quality of the service is better. It is made to be a cheaper price for users of these services. Although you've really improved this part of the law, there are still some things we want to change with our amendments. Automaticly, it is a part of discrimination, and when we talk here about some discriminatory provisions of the law, as is the case with a car taxi carrier, then you, like some other ministers, will say – well, it is about positive discrimination. There is no foothold positive discrimination against European practice and the situation that in Serbia the taxi driver cannot be registered to several municipalities and that it automatically disrupts the quality of services. It's not Serbia Belgrade, Mr. Minister. The road transport law is indeed extremely appropriate and excellent in the practice of the city of Belgrade. But when you move away from the city of Belgrade and you prohibit one carrier from driving a smaller vehicle from a village, from a little bit of nowhere, and there are plenty of them in Serbia, because, unfortunately, the interior of Serbia, itself, becomes such, you limit the carrier from a smaller seat to drive people to the centre of their municipality to pay a regular tax to the state. What are you going to do in this area? You'll probably drive people into a gray economy. Besides, in this country, no one's even saying that members of an important sector are getting paid by hand. So, as representatives of the government, not you personally, you've been spending the last few months of the gray economy over the salaries of some employees. One more suggestion. I suggest you be Minister of Education soon, considering how you received these men who strike yesterday. It would probably not be a three-month strike in education, and this situation would not be with educators and students, instead of your colleague, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53287	The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53288	The minister's coming out, but I believe he'll be back soon. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, in the framework of a joint search, we are considering the Road Transport Act and two other contracts in this area, one of which refers to electronic numbers, and the other contract refers to Corridor 10. In my discussion, the most I will limit myself to this road transport law. We know that the basic version of this law was passed in 1995, with intervention being made several times after that, i.e. amendments and additions were made in 2001, 2005 and 2006. Since this is a very important topic, I think it would be better to approach the adoption of a whole new law. This is because this law concerns a large number of subjects, and matter, as I said, is not united, but is scattered through more of these acts. Then there will be difficulties in its application, because all those who are most directly concerned by this law are not fully trained, are not ordinary and are not skilled in interpreting the laws. As a reason for the adoption of this law, the proponent states that the conditions of road traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have changed significantly. Of course, there's no telling how or how these conditions have changed. I agree, I absolutely agree that the conditions have changed, but unfortunately these conditions have changed worse when it comes to transporters. Participants in road traffic are barely surviving today, many have failed, many are failing, and this law increases penalties and other imposes, making it practically more difficult for road transport operators in the Republic of Serbia. I don't think that's the way to bring order into this area, and that's why the SRS has a big problem in that sense, and we've intervened with a large number of amendments. This is just one introduction, but that's not the worst thing about this law. The worst part of this law is that various sublaws are used to dilute, devaluation and essentially modify its contents through various regulations, regulations, opinions, directives and the like. However, laws are passed by formal regulatory procedure. So there is a public debate and everything that goes with it, but the laws are mainly translated from the English language, with the Croatian version of the translation being increasingly used lately. Only it may be translated from Croatia by switching from the Ivakavica to the evac and throwing out some words of Croatian new talk. This is how the homework you received from Brussels is done, but also what is brought, which brings this assembly, then breaks the rules, regulations, and all the other things that go along with it. The best example of what I'm talking about and what your laws are is the Traffic Safety Act that was passed two years ago, as we know. Within the framework and within that law, about 40 of the sublegal acts have been adopted or yet to be passed, and some of the ancient laws of 1982 have been applied. Immediately after the entry into force of this law, the problem with its application arose, because appropriate ministries, such as the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, the environment and other ministries, did not bring appropriate sublaws in time. Of course, this can't be wrong for the Ministry of Infrastructure, but in principle and in general I'm talking about what's going on here when it comes to the laws passed by this government. As I said, many rules have not yet been passed, and among them, the most important rules have not been passed, a set of rules relating to driving training and how driving tests are passed, and in this area some of the provisions of 1982 still apply. However, you almost brought it in, maybe a month ago, one first-aid training rule, if I'm not mistaken, but as if you didn't bring that rulebook because there hasn't been a provision in that rule since it's been applied, so it's basically a dead letter on paper. Previously on Homeland... we had a chance to see the blueprints of some very important regulations. But now there are no more of these regulations, and many of them are really necessary, in order for this matter to be complete and complete. Therefore, when it comes to the Ministry of the Interior, in which the traffic is surrounded, the Regulation on new driving licences and regulations and registrations has been laid down, they immediately began to apply. Which is why, of course, it's clear to everyone, there's money, so driver's licenses should be hit in the pocket immediately, money should be poured into the Republic of Serbia's budget. But on the other hand, as I said, driving training, passing a theoretical and practical part of a driving test is still under the 1982 Law. In this area, the government is making a mess, and it should represent the essence and it is the essence of the 2009 Traffic Safety Act. So we have a situation where candidate enrolment is done under the new law, candidate training is done under the old law, age conditions for candidate entry are carried out under the new law, the laydown is done under the old law, the theoretical part of the examination is conducted under the old law, the issue of permits by the new, and the worst, without any transitional deadline, and that transitional deadline, these transitional solutions are foreseen by law, and they are three months. Then there's really no one alive who can handle it. The biggest problem with this is secondary traffic schools, because they practically had to, in one day, when this rule came into force, and they call it "D" day, bring and adopt curricula and training programs, conduct training, organise exams and everything else, which, of course, was not possible, and now there is a legal vacuum and no one alive can get out of all of this. If this were really like this, if I didn't say anything by heart, I'd show you on one particular case, let's say one person who's 18 and wants to be trained for the "C" category, means in a direct way to get to that category, and that's the case with high school students who train for that same category, for the interest of motor vehicle driver. When it starts in this complete procedure, that person is trained in the old one, and the license gets a new one, and that's not a "C" category that he intended to train for, he's already getting a test license "B" category for which he wasn't trained, and the "C" category license gets only at 21 pre-filled years, with what he can do in the meantime if he wants to get a C1 category license. During that time, three times he has to draw medical confidence, three times he comes into the MUP's rooms for proper permits and of course he pays taxes that have been raised by 200 percent. And to make the irony bigger, the trial permits say that even persons over the age of 18 are subject to facial surveillance with experience. This is how it is done in certain ministries within the government of the Republic of Serbia. But it's not the only mistake, with a request to issue a driver's license, a personal card is mandatory, and when it comes to ID cards, new ID cards, when putting new ID cards in a reader's name and last name, it's read with Cyrillic, and parents' name is read with Latin. It's some kind of program, people said to me by some name of "steel", which was done by people from the MUP. Now it turns out, if it's the parents' name Vesco, then it's not clear whether it's Vesco or Beco or Vojko or Boyko, etc. So, in one word, it's really very unserious and it's a real problem about this. But there's even worse than this. A special story is tests to pass a theoretical part of the driving test, which has not yet changed from the old program. So we have a situation that on the tests for passing the driver's exam there's data from the old law, that the speed of movement of the vehicle is 60 km per hour, and we know that according to the current law, that speed is 50 km per hour. When it comes to the amount of alcohol in the blood, according to the old law, that amount was five permeations, and according to the new law, three had passed. By car school, people don't know what to do. However, some recommendation came, some instruction, I don't know what to call it, by the MUP, to confess to both, both old and new. In other words, the correct answer is acknowledged and the wrong answer, which is a real nonsec. There's something else about this, so I'm going back to the essence of this law. When it comes to license plates, we know that on our New Year's roadways there are more and more cars with new license plates, that there are new registration areas, which is all good, but every Serbian citizen has become aware that on these new license plates there are letters that don't belong to the Serbian alphabet, such as the letters x, w, y, maybe a letter. Since I come from Nis, the license plate is NI, and then G and W. You really need to understand that it's coming back from each other. There are millions of combinations for each registration area. If every citizen and every child in one registration area had their own car or more, they would still have the opportunity to regulate it without using these letters. I don't understand why this was done this way, when we know that in neighboring countries, for example. BiH, the letters x, w, y are not used there, on the contrary, although BiH is a country under, practically, an EU occupation, only seven letters are used there, and only those letters that are the same in Cyrillic and Latin. So they were bigger patriots than we were. I can see the gentleman laughing, but all this stuff that I'm talking about really is. Here's an example of Bulgaria, which is an EU country, there's only those letters that are the same in Cyrillic and Latin, because the Bulgarian letter is officially Cyrillic. In Macedonia there are also no letters x, w, y, etc. There are also no letters in Croatia, and only some smart-ass in Serbia remembered to insert letters x, w, y, etc. into that rulebook. Is this a way to pass the EU, I think, because there is no EU order here, because if there is an EU order, it would be in Bulgaria or other countries. Perhaps someone assumed some intention of people from the EU and then hurried himself to do so as soon as possible, to satisfy someone's wishes and appetites. As for other things, let's say, the MUP boasts the positive effects of the law, and the real point is that these positive effects were only in the first few months, and all the later positive effects, in fact, reflect the increase in fuel prices and the decline of standards and then less drive and, fortunately, accordingly, proportionally, there are fewer accidents on the road. You praise many of this law on road transport and that is your right, to state certain arguments for this law. I have to say that there are good things here, that it doesn't just turn out to be a criticism. It is said that by passing this law, carriers are given the opportunity to increase the volume of work and safety in their work. Maybe that's true, but I think the increase in the volume of work is achieved only by increasing production, not by adopting these or those regulations. It is further said, "The application of the law will not create for the citizens and the economy any cost", which I think is not true, because if transporters increase costs, and it is obvious from the law that it is true, they have to invoice it through the price of transport and economy and citizens and thus indirectly and transport, both citizens and businesses will also have increased costs. On the other hand, all transport operators, in transport operations, did not support the adoption of this law, and you claimed the opposite here in the bill. The best evidence is that recently the owners of the van have shown protests in the streets, primarily Belgrade and some other cities. I must also say, to be honest, some of the provisions of this law are essentially not ill-conceived, which I can agree with. The problem, however, is that they are not applied in some other sublaws, and there is nothing of them in the end. I welcome the intention of this law to eliminate illegal transportation, as well as other negative phenomena about this. Really, it's a thing that no one in their right mind can object to. For example, the good side is that it determines the price of transport, which cannot be less than the lowest prescribed per mile. Really, that's also a good thing. There's one thing about licking. Some agree, some disagree, but I find it difficult to carry vehicles that have been purchased through the lysing system because this can also represent a two - edged sword. Today, there are more and more of those who cannot reconcile their obligations to the lising, and if you go a little south of Belgrade, right here at the river drum, you will see on the right there are a large number of vehicles standing there in some parking space, which have been taken away just because the lising recipients were unable to service their obligations. Just for a little while, if we walk through the law itself, we'll see that there are a lot of things that could be done in a different way, in a better way, and that's why the SRS intervened with a large number of amendments. I've heard here off the record that some have been accepted, if that's the case, I really appreciate it. The great flaw in this law is that it is the most based on inspection supervision. I don't think inspection surveillance has ever solved any systemic problems. It's being solved the other way. Of course, the inspection should exist, it should do its job, and the problems, the main problems are on the other side and they should be eliminated. Just one sentence. As for the declaration of compliance with EU rules, I must say that this matter differs from most of the laws we have passed in this House. The law says there are no relevant EU rules to comply with this law, and if Serbia is integrated with the EU in some area, it is in the area of traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53289	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group, the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, the SRS parliamentary group and the ZES parliamentary group. The word has the first registered speaker, MP Zoran Bortic, followed by MP Aleksandar Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53290	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, the Honorable fellow MPs, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, which was sent to this meeting of the National Assembly by an urgent procedure to a significant extent to contribute to the new standard of terms and mode of transport in road transport in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The new legal solutions will improve internal market disturbances, both in public transport and in transport for their own purposes, will specify and improve the positions of operators transporting passengers, persons and things, and this law will contribute to preventing the occurrence of illegal transport operations. The proposed law will in practice address the shortcomings and irregularities in road traffic in the territory of the Republic and allow for the introduction of order on the traffic market, transport and provision of cell services organised and operated in that area. In particular, it should be pointed out that the proposed law establishes new commercial offences and infringements for which the legislator provides for fines to be charged at the scene of the infringement and changes the range of prescribed fines. An important newspaper on public transport regulation refers to the introduction of vehicle owners' rights as provided by the lising system to carry out road transport in Serbia's territory with these vehicles. In this way, the draftr of the law makes lising recipients equal to the persons owned by the vehicles. The law also extends the powers of local self-government with regard to decision-making regarding bus stops. The registration and over-the-line of driving orders, modes and conditions of operation and the type of transport from bus stations shall be subject to the applicable driving schedules, as well as the way in which train tickets are issued. In the area of transport of goods and passengers, the legislator specifically tightened standards preventing the grey economy in this area, unfair competition and the application of dumping prices, as it determines that the transport price per mile cannot be lower than the price prescribed by the competent authority in accordance with the law. The proposed legal text also resolved the classification of bus stations in categories brought by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Transporters are obliged to provide bus stations with a registered and certified timetable for each line, as well as a valid price list, with bus station managers providing transporters with a smooth reception, use and dispatch of the bus from the platform. At the same time, bus stations are required to conclude cell service contracts with carriers. The proposal for this law also specifies the obligations of the carrier in the liner transport of passengers to issue a clearly booked train ticket for a specific route, with a registered travel date and with a trademark or stamp of the carrier, as well as a numbered certificate for the transport of passenger luggage, also with a trademark or stamp of the carrier. The proposed amendments and additions to this law are in line with the new Transport Safety Act, which has detailed the obligation of the owner of the motor vehicle to be technically correct when carrying those vehicles. In order to avoid the recurrence of these provisions, the draft Act amending and supplementing the road traffic law abolished the obligation to sign the vehicle's technical correctness control in the road order. In this way, the legislator went towards streamlining the legal rules. It should be pointed to the fact that the bill's proposer has linguistically adapted the legal text to the current social moment, which has contributed to the alignment of the terminology used in the positive regulations of the Republic of Serbia. In short, it should be pointed out that, in practice so far in the application of the Transport Act in road transport, there have been many shortcomings. These shortcomings were primarily related to the order of transport in line in the transport of passengers, the way in which the vane transport of passengers, the way in which the public transport of things, the way and the conditions in which the car taxi is carried out, the way in which cell services are provided, but also to adequate inspection powers in this area. All this has caused significant material damage to all those who have legally performed road transport activity or provided cell services in carrying out that transport. In order to remove the identified weaknesses caused by the very unfavourable position of economic operators in this area, the legislator made it possible to introduce order on the transport and road transport services market by amending the Law on Transport. It is certain that the introduction of this law into our legal regulations will ensure stability on the market for services, in transport, in road transport and that this market will become more developed and unified. The law will contribute to reviving the overall economic flows, as well as optimal capacity engagement in transport in road transport and raising the quality of this transport. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the EPS guarantee contract, electronic numbers between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, obliges the Republic of Serbia to be a guarantee of the obligations of the public undertaking EPS, which signed an agreement on 29 November 2010 on the financing of electronic numbers with the European Investment Bank. Thus, the public EPS company is owned by the Republic of Serbia. It has been credited to the 40m-euro distribution, production, distribution and management of the distribution system for the project of introducing remote-reading and consumer exclusion systems. For the realisation of this loan, i.e. for the release of a 40m-euro financial line, the loan contract provides for the Republic of Serbia to be a solid borrower, which will guarantee the timely and complete implementation of all monetary obligations, so that the EPS can start using the said funds as soon as possible. In order to realise the project of electric numbers, we need to adopt a law on the validation of this contract. As a result, this law is also proposed by an emergency procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in addition to the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Contract, Corridor 10 highway E-80 Phase 1 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, contained in the provision of Article 99(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that the National Assembly confirms international agreements when the law provides for the obligation to confirm them, has a number of reasons to pass this law. This Corridor is defined as a priority road route and as part of the rail, road, water, air and intermodal transport strategy in the Republic of Serbia from 2008 to 2015. Starting with the fact that the European Investment Bank, as a financial institution which, with minimum annual interest, approves loans for such and similar projects in less developed regions, in order to allow their easier integration into the EU, the Republic of Serbia has submitted a request to the bank for credit approval. The 195m-euro credit is intended to finance the continuation of the road construction project 10 Roadway E-80. The Law on the 2011 budget of the Republic of Serbia authorised the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia of 300m euros for the purpose of implementing the project, i.e. the construction and reconstruction of the highway on the roadway Nis – Dimitrovgrad. In order for these funds to be put into office and for the work on Corridor 10 to be carried out in accordance with the planned dynamics, the billmaker sent this proposal to the National Assembly to be placed on the agenda and adopted by an urgent procedure. Starting with the importance that this law, as well as the previous ones we are talking about, has in the development of the Republic of Serbia, the SPS-JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all three laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53291	Nine minutes and 45 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger Alexander Pejcic has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people, Dejan Pisarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, representatives of the government, I would like to welcome Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, but he is not here. I wanted to ask him certain questions that I didn't get an answer to, since I asked them in the form of a parliamentary question, but I expected them to give me an answer today. He's gone, I hope he gets into this discussion of mine. Like many of my colleagues, I will tie myself closely to the draft law on the confirmation of a financial contract and on the construction of Corridor 10 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. To be honest, I must say at the outset that I highly appreciate institutions and people who are putting forth a lot of effort and effort to realize a particular project. So this government of the Republic of Serbia has put forth a lot of effort and effort to build the Corridor 10 route. For the three years she's been in power, she's only 20 kilometers away. If you take it, it comes to you about seven kilometers a year. It's an extremely fantastic success of this government, and if we continue at these rates, Corridor 10 will only be built in 2050. Corridor 10 or corridor X, and we all know what x is – unknown in the equation, so is Corridor 10, and especially for us citizens of the Jablanic district and citizens of Leskovac municipality. We don't know what the trail will look like going through Leskovac municipality. It takes approximately 50 kilometers of Corridor 10 route to pass through our municipality. We in this Corridor 10, or in the construction of Corridor 10, see our development opportunity. We see Corridor 10 as a development component of our district, which is one of the poorest districts, and since this government has been defined as even regional development, we expected it to continue in that spirit. Since the most complicated part of Corridor 10 is through the Gredile ravine, and the most expensive part should pass through the Gredile ravine, we have also addressed individual institutions, individual ministries. We had a series of meetings with Minister Oliver Dulic, Minister of Spatial Planning, we're talking about the local self-government of the town of Leskovec. The meeting was attended by representatives of one and the other, the Ministry of Capital Investments, representatives of the CIP, representatives of JP Zeleznica, Puts of Serbia, Corridor 10, as well as representatives of our Directorate for Construction, all MPs from Leskovac. We have come to the conclusion that you need to get out of the deadlocks and you need to help the municipality of Leskovac, local self-government and give the CIP the task of doing a quality idea project. The CIP reference institution has done a really good and quality project, which costs 12m euros cheaper than the current railway project. Namely, the project planned by the Ministry of Spatial Planning plans a tunnel that needs to be dug up and penetrated. However, this project offered by the CIP is much more efficient, as I said cheaper. But the Ministry of Capital Investments and the Ministry of Spatial Planning, as well as many reference institutions dealing with this project, did not accept this project, we don't know why, so in the towers, there's talk that a certain construction company bought tunnel digging machines and for these reasons gave up this idea project, so I wanted to ask the minister if it's true or if it's just culinary stories. We at the bar have one political consensus on this issue of passing Corridor 10 through our municipality. That's why we haven't even adopted a plan for spatial planning. Otherwise, our president of the Zivojin Stefanovic Assembly, a member of the SPS, filed criminal charges against the Ministry of Spatial Planning, against the Ministry of Capital Investment, against JP Corridor 10, and against JP Paths of Serbia. You see how much political consensus we have and consensus on it, even if we're ready for more radical measures, to block the highway, i.e. Corridor 10 in case we don't want to meet. Such a move by the government, which has been defined for even regional development, only encourages migration from these areas. Otherwise, about 2,000 people have moved out of the Jablanic district and south of Serbia annually. This way you're just going to speed up that migration, and since physics doesn't know about empty space, assume who's going to move into that space. I expect the Ministry of Capital Investment to revise its decision and accept the idea project, as well as the Revised Commission, to accept our project because it is cheaper and can be realised much faster.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53293	Five minutes and 46 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Dejan Pisarevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53294	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, listening to the discussion of our MP in the preceding part, I was under the impression that we are the People's MPs of general practice here. Why general practice? I can tell you that we here understand everything and everything. Simply, this law that's on the agenda, and I'm talking about the Law on Road Traffic, that's my profession, that's what I do, and then I'm going to say about this particular thing about that law. It would be the same as talking about the veterinary and medical law, etc., so that something isn't true. What's this about? This law is good and excellent. For those of you who don't know this matter, I can say responsibly that this law applies to the regulation of traffic in a functional and organisational sense. This law has nothing to do with the Traffic Safety Act, which was spoken of here by previous conversators. The law is complemented by those provisions that accurately specify what is needed for the normal functioning of this matter. As we all know, traffic is one living thing, one large branch of the economy on which one state depends, and it must be arranged as such. This law precisely regulates car taxi transport, transport line, transport vanlinian and transport for its own purposes. When I talk about a taxi ride, I can tell you that before today's assembly I had a conversation with 20 taxi drivers and two associations from the Municipality of the Great Plan and Smederevo. I have presented this bill and I can tell you that they are satisfied. As you know, taxi drivers are one very serious category, the mirror of a city, because when a stranger comes to a town, he first turns to taxi drivers where and how he's going to go. They're one force, that if something's wrong they can show it with their protest. However, this law suits them. In what way does it fit? It's precisely specified in Article 6a where you can clearly see, which so far has not been, that a taxi driver can provide taxi services in the area of his city, which is normal. If he starts driving out of town, he goes to another city, he's obliged to take off a taxi tag while waiting, and he doesn't turn off a taxi. It's normal to protect competition. That's how competition is disabled and that's a great thing. It was heard here in the discussion that more taxis were needed. I can tell you that in the west, let's say, if the city requires 500 taxi drivers, 501 won't be able to be, it'll be able to buy a license in someone else's. That's good. What else is really good? What's very good for taxi drivers is the way they connect. At this point, the Traffic Safety Act or the Vehicle Registration Regulation shall be joined. For the first time now, the new plates are so-called out wild cab drivers. That's a good thing, and whoever deals with matter has noticed. Every taxi vehicle that has a company on the roof of its vehicle must have the last letter code "TH" so that wild cab drivers won't be able to put the company in and buy passengers. It's a good moment that the law provides. When it comes to the public transport of passengers, it is divided in line and outline public transport of passengers. As far as line transportation of passengers is concerned, more or less, the law has remained as it is and all the provisions provided for are excellent. A colleague here said he only needed one bus for a line, he doesn't know the problem. What if there's a bus on the line and it breaks down? Who's going to replace him? On that line usually travel students, children, etc. The kids buy a monthly ticket, then there's no transportation and he has to pay the ticket to another carrier. In that case, three buses are needed. The vehicle can be right on the way, and there could be a malfunction in some part, and there's a repair from three to five hours. That's the basic reason he predicted there would be three buses and that's a great solution. As far as vanlinic transport is concerned, there is a bus and no longer needed because it deals with certain tours that go somewhere, usually it's excursions etc. And there's always time for another colleague to get engaged around that transport to continue the transport on a further tour. This is where he might have to go into the criminal provisions. It didn't count on that moment. That's another problem. That's the problem on the ground. You know there are republican and local lines. They're intercity lines, but they're called republican because they get a solution from the ministry. These permits are issued by the ministry, and local self-government rules on how transportation will be carried out. There is now a kind of abuse, but to the detriment of the citizens. What's going on here? If the same carrier that has the line of the Republic and covers the municipal line, it should normally send a municipal bus to the municipal line and it fits the line. So, let the Republic go at that time and then drive that line at the same cost. The result is a non-maintaining line, and the second consequence is that the VAT card is 18%, here 8%, so it's a bigger map. There might be some provision to predict, maybe you didn't have a case like that, so it should sort of be arranged. Since someone mentioned here that on a line-up transport there couldn't be a vehicle less, the law prescribed that on a line-up transport there could be a 20-seat vehicle. So, one minibus type "mercedes" or "ivko", they have 25 seats, they are small consumers and they can arrive much faster and better than any other minibus of a larger category, so I personally think in that part where the criticism was applied that there is no basis for criticism. In the case of a transport category in a road transport which is vanlinic, it is in other words contracted transport. So, in the vanlinic transport, transport contracts are being arranged, the time of departure is precise, etc. It is all well defined and it is foreseen that, at all times, the transport user, or the service provider, has proof of the use of the transport. There's now a little vague one thing, a little unknown. I've had a chance to meet a problem like that in the field in my line of work. What's this about? It is clear that we carriers are exempt from the tax on transport in vanlinic traffic. In that transport, there should be evidence of payment. It shall not be specified whether the evidence of the payment of the invoice established by the service provider or whether the proof of the payment of the copy showing that it has been paid, or whether the proof of the payment of the blank account issued by the carriers themselves is determined. That should be done. (President: National MP, the time available to your parliamentary group has been used. To be specific, this law is good, and I see that time is up, I don't want to owe any more. Personally, I think you've got the message. In voting day, we will support this law because it has brought in many newspapers and that will help this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53295	Before we continue our work, honourable Members of Parliament, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf, members of the student delegation who are present at postgraduate studies at the London Faculty of Economics and Political Sciences, and who are monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery of the National Assembly. Present are: George Monogioudis, Christopher Shan Louie, Andrew Thomas Park, Siu Pui Lee, Anna Costa, Joe Show, Daniyar Taumurat, Sakine Koc, Marcos Dragoni and Tamara Mijatović. (The President welcomes the guests at the gallery in English. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević. Another example of co-operation, MP Zoran Antic has a word, but the agreement made that MP Milan Lapcevic has a word. Does MP Zoran Antic want to speak after him or in his place? They will inform the parliamentary groups on their own. I don't want to usurp the chairman's microphone. So, MP Milan Lapcevic. After that, the People's Messenger Milan Veselinović, then the People's Messenger Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53296	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that there is no Minister Mrkonjic, because he is obviously not comfortable with this debate in the Assembly. There's a lot of facts out there that aren't pleasant, but what to do is what they are. Two years ago, in May 2009, we had a special session asking parliamentary questions. I then asked one of the parliamentary questions to Mr Mrkonjic, it was just about all these topics that dominated the work of parliament this morning, and they were about building Corridor 10 and these famous projects that the ruling coalition announced would do during its term of office. At that time, the debate was quite unpleasant, at times and bile by Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, where he even called me ignorant, that he would teach me right, which means Corridor 10 and how it would end, etc. However, after two years, here we meet again in parliament and what we have been saying, unfortunately, is proved to be completely true. Two years of functioning and working on the construction of Corridor 10, strong loans have been ratified in this assembly, and unfortunately since the fact that we are on the ground, we have almost nothing to catch up on. The tour around Dimitrovgrad began at the beginning of last year. As far as I know, I was in Dimitrov City a month ago, lasts, something's going on, but only so much. When it's finished, God knows. The rest of the White Palace, according to Nis, hasn't even started yet. When he will, you don't know. The shares of Presevo towards Nis, i.e. from the border towards Presevo, continued towards the Grdelička gorge, in 2007 one tape was made, the other began. At the time of Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic's ministry, the second tape was completed and, of course, there were promises already announced several times on television. I was there two months ago. You go two or three kilometers, then you run into a bridge that wasn't built, and then you go to another lane, and then you go around again and so on. So it's not even finished, let alone released. So that story about Corridor is completely dreary. It's done, of course, on a stake in Vojvodina and that's, I say, the only bright spot that can justify the work of the entire government on the construction of Corridor 10. Share and important strategic direction from Belgrade towards Požega, so-called Ibar highway, nothing happened in that field. The concession is broken, and the crowds are amazing. Travelling from Belgrade to Lazarets is at least an hour. So much for how much we need roads and how much we've done. The great story of Corridor 10's developmental opportunity cannot possibly be covered by the noise, the lift of tones and similar things. I think that, in the end, sooner or later is measured and look who did what and where we are. As I recall in this parliament, we have repeatedly ratified various international loans and no one from the DSS parliamentary group has said anything against these loans, because these loans are needed by Serbia and are needed to finally build that corridor. The corridor is something that both this country needs and as a transport and transit corridor, a corridor that brings a lot of resources to our country. We've always supported such loans. Minister Mrkonjic asked for support from MPs and parliament to help build corridors. Our help is being looked at precisely by these laws to come to parliament as soon as possible, to ratify them, and we think about the laws on loans, and then move on to operationalization. Unfortunately, that's not there. I appreciate Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic's efforts and his energy to speak very strongly about Corridor, about the importance, about building, about having a lot of energy and to go on the ground and to commend the performers, to make them work as fast as possible. But what's wrong with him is that he always goes out with some pretty unmeasured or unserious statements in terms of deadlines. We'll finish the Corridor complete by 2012. It's barely a year until 2012, and we can't finish what started four years ago. When you have that complete picture, then you realize that we are quite a non-serious country. Imagine a country that has 7.5 – 8 million people, which can't end more than 30 to 40 kilometers of highway in four years, with these huge loans. That means something's wrong. Either whoever organizes this job doesn't do it right, or this country doesn't have enough capacity to do it – there's not enough engineers, there's not enough designers, there's not enough good contractors. I remember, in 2005 I traveled through Croatia to Slovenia. That's when the stockpiles started from our border to Osijek, to that part of the ship, to the part where the highway was made. It was about 30 kilometers through the Slavonian forest. In a year and a half, the Croats organized themselves, threw out all the machinery they had in the country and ended that part of the road. That's all we have to do. We'll start when these extraordinary or regular parliamentary elections are over, when this coalition is out of power and when the sleeves are seriously rolled and this business is organised properly, when we include all the civil operations in this country to work on that corridor. I hope that within a reasonable and realistic time frame, and it will certainly not be below three to four years end that corridor and begin to collect huge revenues from transit. I won't talk about it anymore, because the minister isn't here and he can't answer. I really commend his preconceivedness when it comes to some other things, and we had some controversial things about strikes in railway companies. He came out here to meet, he got people to talk and he solved the problem. So you don't have to be mad at these facts. What's true, unfortunately, must have come out of sight. I just want to say two more things about these laws. I don't know how he allowed a serious man to pass by at the end of last year, an increase in taxis on a van, where many people were hit by huge registration fees, where the van was evened with jeeps. Now people who do their own private business, have their own shops and shops, have these delivery vehicles, have to pay huge taxes, or registrations that range from 80 to 100,000 dinars. It's another blow to their pocket, and also to help, under quotes, entrepreneurship and overcoming the crisis. As I recall, there were talks with the representatives of the association, promises that it would come back. Over several months and nothing happens. I suppose it will soon come to parliament and that people will be stripped of these enormous burdens. As for the ratification of the credit-change agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, Serbia has an outdated system of reading electricity consumption. I'm sure there's something to be done on that plan. It's necessary to introduce more modern, more accurate systems, for reading to be remote, to be remote. I have to ask one logical question. We are taking credit from the European Investment Bank, the state has concluded a contract with the company "Saž" from France to open a number production plant in Nis. For this, the state will encourage the company, Sazma, eight or ten thousand euros per new employee. So, we're going to budget some money to get people to work. That's commendable, because there's a huge number of people out there that don't work, but I'm just asking -- what's that logic? We'll take the loan, we'll give the money to the company to open up the office to produce the numbers, and then we'll give that loan that we've taken to buy those same numbers that they're going to produce, and we'll build it into households or industrial plants. We had, and today we have domestic producers that can produce similar numbers and meet the needs of industry and electricity. I think it was much more logical that we spent that loan to spread the tender and give the job to our domestic producers, to raise our domestic industry, because that's probably how we can create extra income and improve something in this country. If everything that is produced in this country, if everything that is invested from this budget or from all credit goes on consumption to foreigners, then I really don't see how we as a country will be able to get out of this big crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53297	Ten minutes and 45 seconds have been used by the MP's group. With this presentation of Lapčević, we end the morning part of the work. I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. At 15.00 hours, we continue to work, schedule and in a order of MPs according to the application for a word. The first registered speaker is MP Milan Veselinovic, followed by MP Zoran Antic. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in the afternoon part of the session with a joint and principled review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Transport, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on the Guarantee of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia Electronic Numbers between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the Proposal for a Law on Confirming the Financial Contract Corridor 10, Highway (E 80) Phase 1 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. According to the order of the application, MP Milan Veselinovic, followed by MP Zoran Antic. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has been reported. National MP Milan Veselinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have three important proposals for legal projects, and one of the most important is the Law on Transport in Road Traffic. The other two laws are laws where the state of Serbia takes new loans, which is unpopular for everyone, but that's what our people say – evil years have won an eagle. Let's move on to an analysis of this road transport law. A law that is very important and important, not only for us here, but also for the citizens of Serbia. It is known that since 1995 the law has not been substantially changed, it has simply suffered some cosmetic changes, but the problems have accumulated from year to year, so there is a real big mess in the area. A special chaos was caused after 2000 by the arrival of these Dormouses – Osmania, who today criticise some companies, i.e. companies that are privatised and who love not to work by these companies, these business entities. They look up here, and they forget that they are the creators of that famous and devastating privatisation law, which destroyed the Serbian economy, agriculture and almost everything else, so the damage is done to this area too, to public road transport, because we know that many of the companies that do transport are privatised, in fact most of them. There's a lot of trouble out there. I'll start with my New Market Sandzaktrans, which is kind of privatized, secret and illegal. One giant in that Yugoslavia, perhaps 10, has been, and unfortunately today there are three buses that can be carried out by public transport. The workers are disbanded, there's one more part of the workers waiting for some severance, a social program. Such is the fate of many, and "Transport" in the King, known problems in the "Auto Transport Morava" Vrnjačka Banja, Cačka and in order throughout Serbia. Did that have to happen? I don't think so. We Serbian radicals have been opposed for years to such a destructive policy that has brought this people to the brink of destruction, poverty. And this area that is important to the citizens of Serbia is damaged by that privatisation. I will specifically refer to these new bosses who bought these companies, these economic operators doing public transport in road transport. Not only did they dissipate workers in these companies, but they forced the rest of them to drive the bus themselves and charge the tickets. Well, now, is that man jeopardizing the safety of 50 passengers or more that he drives without talking about their material condition that is humiliating? That's what I'm trying to say is that this traffic safety law is in danger. And here would be a lot of work for republican inspectors and labour inspectors. As far as this law is concerned, I will refer to some remarks, I must say openly, as my colleagues have previously said, that this law was necessary to pass, that it has its faults related to some precision and its application in practice, but that here very little has been referred to the problems of very workers in this business, especially taxi carriers, where the burden is brought down to local self-government and given great authority to solve these problems, and these problems are difficult for the reason that many people are out of work, so it simply hangs the taxi name and transport passengers. We also have problems in remote places, mountainous and mountainous areas of our Republic, where we should have allowed transport to run a van or transporters with taxes and company registration for those passengers, because there are villages where maybe a dozen or 20 old persons remain. That's where these cases should have been taken into account. I'm saying, talking about taxis and taxi carriers is a special story. Oh, God, in this time and age, somebody's gonna fix this problem and take care of what I personally doubt. But, behold, there are some shifts in this law regarding the lowest price to be determined, meaning for this loyal competition, which can contribute to some improvement. There's a lot of things being said here, and that's why this law was passed. I think the biggest reason is that Serbia's citizens suffered the greatest damage and that this law is one inevitable, but it would be better if a new law was essentially passed so that this one would not suffer any changes in a few months as regards the application of this law. I will refer to this law concerning the draft law on the confirmation of an EPS guarantee contract of electronic numbers between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. As far as I could tell, there was another loan here, the EPS owed another 40m euros in the previous period. I wonder myself – what about that money? Now, the European Investment Bank borrows new 40m euros and mainly wants the money to focus on numbers-related innovation, remote reading and exclusion. I must say openly that this Elektroprivreda of Serbia holds a monopoly in Serbia. What's really going on there, I don't know, but every year, there's a new and new impose on the citizens of Serbia, increasing the prices of electricity and their services. I've been trying to get some information on what's causing this. I got the information, I don't know if they're right or not, that there's a huge loss in power supply itself, and then stealing electricity. When we see all this, it turns out that those companies and businesses and citizens who are honest should pay prices and those who steal electricity. The second important thing is next. This is about making these numbers of "Sazem", it's an electronic French firm, and otherwise in our country there are at least five or six companies that are able to produce these numbers. We had an EI Nis, which produced digital numbers. Unfortunately, you closed her down, too. I'd like to remind you that some places have been chosen here to make these numbers, i.e. Squirt, Vrbas, Vranje and Novi Pazar. I'm from Novi Pazar myself, so I look forward to what to do in Novi Pazar, but I'm a little skeptical in the sense of – why are these places chosen? Is it from a hat or some other indicator? As for the draft law confirming the Financial Contract of Corridor 10 Highway E 80 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, none of us here can be against the construction of the Horgos-Novi Sad and Corridor 10 highways, but we are quite skeptical in this regard. I also heard from Minister Dulic, who said it was a problem and the next government, and we just don't believe all this is going to happen. A previous 384m-euro loan was made here, and a new 150m-euro loan is now being made. It's about the great responsibility of our country, God forbid they use those funds where they're supposed to be and where they're most needed. I will also look back on Serbia's internal infrastructure. We who live in the Serbian state's border areas are sometimes pleased when it comes to the highway, and will cross towards Montenegro, and towards the south and the like, but, behold, Munir Poturak is there, God forbid it comes to the turn and that loan that is unpopular. But Minister Mrkonjic, too, when he visited our neighborhood, saw that in Serbia's interior, the road infrastructure was desperate. It is the cause of many troubles in our neighborhoods, primarily migration movements and eviction of the village-city. You can imagine that even today in our areas, on the mountain of Rogoznica, the caves and Golia, there are places where children go 14-15 km in one direction to their school. I asked Minister Mrkonjic to use his power and to connect such villages with macadam, so that bus transport could be carried out by those students and children. But so far, it's just a letter on paper. Simply, if this is how Serbia's strategic development is seen, we will come to such a situation that one day we will have Belgrade and the desert. Unfortunately, we read that every year one city of 25,000 people moves to Belgrade. I'll just say one example. More than 10,000 residents were registered in Prijepolje, Priboj and Novi Varoša in 2010. Do you realize now what that's like when a figure of 10,000 people log out where we're supposed to settle in and stay in the area? It's just one example, not to mention the white plague. No one has ever thought of writing a law to prevent a white plague or anything like that. That I don't take any more time for my colleagues, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53300	13 minutes of MP time was used. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic, followed by MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, first of all, follow this road transport law. I'd say, as far as SNS is concerned, we expected a lot more from this law. We are aware of all the problems that occur in road transport and have significantly increased by privatising transport companies. In fact, a lot of monopolies have been created, very little competition and service prices are too high for our citizens and essentially do not reflect the right situation on the ground. What is evident through the privatisation process is that cellular services are significantly expensive and one of the good things in this law is that at least somewhat this has been solved through some qualification of cells and price list that will be able to apply. But much remains unsaid, first of all, when it comes to driving orders, local self-government authorities who have received higher powers, but I fear that these greater powers without some additional regulation still mean monopolization at the level of municipalities. Because you already have a fact today that in a large number of municipalities line transport deals exclusively with one carrier. Next, you have the fact that even in the intercity transport, you have very few carriers, even at the county level. That is why today we have a situation where transportation in certain segments is extremely expensive. I would take advantage of the opportunity to mention the environment I come from, and that's Pomorava County, where you have three cities within 10 km and to see that through the price of the ticket, the transport sector is making a very nice profit. The bus ticket between Jagodina and Cuprije is 130 dinars in just 10 km, 1.20 euros. You yourself know that the extra-line transport, usually a kilometer of transport, is worth about one euro. When you take into account this mathematics, if you consider increased depreciation and increased costs, you get into a situation where, for example, this relationship between Jagodina and Čupre needs 10-12 passengers, not only to maintain and pay the costs but also to make a profit. Obviously, we don't have any real competition when it comes to transport and this law should have done much more in that sense. On the contrary, in some segments, it seems to me that this law has allowed further concentration, that it has given priority to large transporters, and that it has put the fines under question. The conditions for action are significantly tightened and a large number of small carriers will not be able to survive. What bothered me most personally is the lowest price of transportation. Where does the government determine the lowest transport price? What the hell is the real government doing here? Please, we have thousands of entrepreneurs today, companies in the private economy that are failing, maybe because they have unfair competition, maybe because they are subject to dumping prices. How can you exclude one sector, the transport sector, and in that sense, the government is engaged to protect this transport sector, and, let's say, leave unprotected total trade. I'll give you the information, in this two months of 2011, you have some 2.227 companies that have been deleted from the register. You have over 6,000 stores in just two months that have been deleted from the self-registration register, probably, first of all, trade shops. What did you do as a government to protect these business entities? Did they fall under unfair competition, under the gray economy, possibly under dumped prices? You have the fact that during the night there are no big markets and that around them are closed to dozens of small shops, that there are dumped prices, that at the moment those markets are closing, they're significantly rising prices, and they actually have a monopoly on one part of the market. The government can't think of it as it does, or the idea of one ministry, to protect one part of the economy, and to keep the other part unprotected. This is one way and the approach that is extremely not marketable. The price system has to work. You can't, in fact, give up the economy market by the government's decision. I guess that's why we agreed in 2000. I know gentlemen from the Democratic Party who often have that saying – there is no free lunch. What does that mean? That the government might decide that the carriers from today, or tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, so it will determine that minimum transport price, can come to that free lunch? In addition, if, as an excuse for the lowest transport price, you are calling for the fact that there is too much gray economy, which has unfair competition, so please, why this whole law? Then why are you changing this law if you haven't solved this problem through a change of law? The question is, what is your ultimate goal? I have the impression that the ultimate goal is to protect those who are big, those who have acquired through the privatisation process, not to mention in what way, large assets, which obviously have fewer markets, because the economic situation is getting worse, and that hundreds, perhaps thousands of those small carriers, which have one or two buses, are literally written off by this law, or the accompanying regulation will come into a very awkward and difficult position. Generally, when you add it all together, this provision is unacceptable and of course the Serbian Progressive Party has responded in this sense and I hope that we will also have the support and understanding of MPs from the ruling majority, because this is contrary to some basic market principles and unacceptable to react in such a selective way in one legislative project. What we might yet resent in this story, when it comes to road transport, is some power that traffic inspectors have also obtained. Please, who can charge the fine on the spot today? It can't be a financial, market inspection, traffic police. I really don't know which body, which institution can do today on the spot blocks or, how will you, some recognizables, charge fines. Well, that's extremely inappropriate. You can make a record, you can subpoena someone for a commercial offence to be punished, but on the spot you charge fines, I really don't know in which area and what other inspection, which other institutions, other than traffic inspection, as you have prescribed in this law, have the right to do. Then, take away the vehicle. Please, what do you mean, you take the vehicle away, and then you let the man prove his rights or not? It's a measure of quite a dragon. I understand we may be in 1945, but we've been away since 1945. I think that such a measure is extremely inappropriate, and in that part, the Serbian Progressive Party has reacted with a few amendments and we also expect a much more serious debate when we enter the debate according to the amendments. We've filed nearly 30 amendments to this bill. As far as the taxi is concerned, there's a lot of trouble. The problems are even taking place in the service sector, because we don't have production today. When you're out of production, you've come down to favors and you've got thousands of people looking to survive in any way and trying to do it in a legal way, not to come into conflict with the state. No one enjoys, I guess, being haunted by an inspection and waking up every morning and thinking about whether someone's gonna knock on his door. Such a carelessness, I'd say, Government, and they've come into a situation where they're increasingly transitioning to the gray economy. It's another consequence of this and this law. It is obvious that you, not only of the Ministry, but of the entire government, do not have enough contact with reality and are not fully aware of the situation today in Serbia. At least when it comes to the interior of Serbia, when it comes to Pomoravlje, because I think central Serbia is significantly different from Pomorava, the situation is very difficult. It was not necessary, in my opinion, to allow individual monopolies to expand, even in taxi transport, but unfortunately, that manner is increasingly common. We almost had a chance to see how the government banned wheat exports. It is also an extreme non-market measure, and even the government interferes with the extent to which the margin will be on bread. It even determines that within 20 days you have to pay for the goods you've taken over. We from the opposition, I'd say, for months here, we've been pointing out that big trade chains don't pay 60, 90, 120 days for small businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises, and that's one of the basic reasons why they fail. But these big chains, which often come from abroad, you can't touch them. So when it comes to the bakery industry, when it comes to protecting as many or as many standards as possible citizens in the pre-election year, then you're ready for anything. Then it doesn't matter whether the market measure or not is market, political points are important. I'd like to finally say that as far as the SNS is concerned, this law is totally unacceptable. My colleague, Mico Rogovic, has made a very good suggestion: this law should be withdrawn from the procedure. I'm not sure Minister Mrkonjic has even entered the essence of this law. I had the opportunity, when we had the law on water and air traffic, that air traffic directorates were so much that it even accepted some international standards, that it took over Parliament's powers, where the minister himself was found. I am sure that even when we begin to discuss amendments to this law, the minister will be much to be found. I hope that at least he has the courage to correct all those illogicalities and all those failures in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53302	12 minutes of MP time was used. The word is by MP Mico Rogovic, followed by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't mind at this point that Mr. Morkonjic isn't here. I hope that, as counterpart Antic said, he wasn't even very involved in all this, but the important thing is that you are with the Ministry. I hope you will pass on to Mr. Minister our observations and what in the first part of the principle discussion I failed to make, and now I would like to compare the laws of the environment and specifically, for example, Slovenia and the law which is in the procedure and I hope that you too will see the mistakes that are made in the making of this legal proposal and beyond that. Whoever's working, he's making mistakes, but the mistakes seem to match a difficult functioning economy at the moment, and it will continue to reflect its efficiency. When we compare these two laws, i.e. legal proposals and laws from Slovenia, we come up with a situation that there is no possibility of taking away a vehicle in Slovenia's law, which you have a little comment on. But if you look at the law, or legal proposal, there are several places where you can take the vehicle away, until the court or criminal proceedings are over. The Slovenian law has no such possibility in sight. Thus, it provides for a temporary ban on the use of a vehicle in a criminal or commercial offence until the process is complete. But the seizure of a vehicle, as it is here in several places, gentlemen, in the legislative proposal, is highlighted, indeed, only in our draft laws. This is not only the case with this law but also with the mass of other legislative proposals coming into this House. This is also evident in article 44a, which goes in addition to the old law, is envisaged and most likely in that member of the bill. As a parliamentary group, we asked that this new proposal, or Article 44a, be deleted, so that no discrimination and all that is not regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is this measure, a rigorous measure, which is foreseen by the inspector. When we move on, half of this law is criminal provisions, amazing. A representative, minister, socially responsible policy, ideologies of the SPS, enters into such a problem and into such solutions and such criminal provisions. Banknotes for almost all measures provided for by criminal provisions have been doubled at the very least. What's the situation in Slovenia? The biggest penalty for businesses in this area, i.e. legal persons, is 8,000 euros, and in Serbia it is one million dinars or, translated, 10,000 euros. For entrepreneurs in Slovenia, two and a half thousand euros, and according to our legal proposal, 500,000 dinars or 5,000 euros. I would like to point out once again that there is no legal penalty for taking a vehicle in Slovenia in similar laws and environments, and in our case it is a little bit, and in these provisions it is often mentioned. I must remind you of one known fact in comparison with the Slovenian standard and standards in the Republic of Serbia - that salaries in Slovenia are 350 times higher than in the Republic of Serbia, and that here the amounts for criminal provisions are up to twice as high. What's this about, gentlemen of the Ministry? I really don't think you can explain this either. What are the other differences between our laws and European laws, such as Slovenian law? Slovenian law regulates the area and international road transport and road transport. So there's one law. We in the Republic of Serbia have the Transport Act in international road traffic and this proposal for road transport laws. In all, in the Republic of Slovenia, this legal act has 39 violations. What's the situation with us? With us, the Transport Act in international road transport has 60 violations, and this legal proposal is another 120 violations. Therefore, for the same area of road transport, Slovenia has a total of 39 violations, and Serbia has 180 violations and commercial offences with twice the maximum penalties. Do you think that the citizens of Serbia are so prone to crime, that this number of violations and criminal provisions are predicted, only you can answer that. I really don't think that's the situation. Such a policy of prescribing criminal provisions, with the threat of withdrawal of vehicles and difficult conditions for obtaining work permits, as well as a complete slow and complicated procedure, automatically destimulate new investments in Serbia, the creation of new jobs. In the principle debate, I've touched some of the transitional provisions and the amazing thing that doesn't exist anywhere in the world you've installed here in transitional provisions, and that's the situation of setting a deadline for compliance with the law of only two months. And you make a commitment, say, to the owners of the van to reregister and get buses in just three months. It is totally out of line, i.e. it is contrary to the basic legal rules and practices of all countries in the environment, if you want the EU as well. The basic rule of changing the rules that the EU also consistently respects is that businesses that are already carrying out the work do not impose new obligations, which condition the continuation of activity under the already issued permits. When new obligations are introduced, a multi-annual deadline is left to respect the differences between the old law and the new law, with numerous exceptions and reliefs for people who have registered the job, i.e. who have had licences and engaged in this activity. So, in European legislative practice, new laws cannot lead to the shut-down of companies and the disabling of persons to do some work or to continue to work as is the case here with a large number of road transport operators. What is the case in European legislation? If the persons performing the work for which the possession of the licence is prescribed, that licence shall be issued only on the basis of experience acquired, without compulsory additional training, passing exams and creating new costs, as is the case in our legislation. All the permits that companies have, I would like to emphasise once again, are valid in European legislation without exception until the expiry date for which they are given. There is no case with us or with this law, but there is a demand for change and coordination. Within two or three months, you are practically entering the area of inability to make transitional provisions, i.e. to apply the importance of the law with the old legislation. We can't say that in terms of criminal provisions, only anti-European provisions. They are, indeed, perhaps too harshly sounding in the context of such a function as you predicted, and anti-civilization, because short deadlines really make it impossible to work. I can't help but remind myself at the very end of the situation that governs this ministry. Here, the minister enters the door at the right moment, given the situation, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, in the railways, which is extremely difficult, where there are huge losses, with no clear views of recovery and of leaving the crisis, which you have talked about, regardless of all the strategies that have been made for this seven-year period. I mentioned to you a little while, we are in 2011, and the vision has not yet been touched, not a strategy for the development of all modes of traffic between 2008 and 2011. Inheritance, situation and everything else, not only your ministry's mistakes but also the situation that some other sectors have seen and more money on the budget than is needed in this section. There's been no sign of any new investment. Only remains, and unfortunately, the bankrupt JAT, in which the state invests as if in a bottomless hole, and you have said that for a moment, Mr. Minister. Who's going to pay back, Mr. Minister, the money if JAT goes bankrupt? You remember that you suggested, and we here, or the ruling coalition, supported both loans and loans, both for JAT and the Directorate and for all sorts of things. So it's not easy and it won't be easy if, God forbid, JAT goes bankrupt and all the other stuff. Someone who has passed these laws must return, i.e. The state, but the responsibility is for those who voted for it. Investments in JAT years unfortunately do not give any positive effects. We were all talking about road traffic today. River traffic in Serbia, like it's gone. Very important, still unregulated basic flows, still problems in the river flow, i.e. the Danube water flow and everything else that goes along with it. For everything to still be like filling on all of this, about the intricacies of the people you're putting into service, I told you, I don't want to comment too much. Their biographies don't exist anywhere on your ministry's website. We can, unfortunately, only learn about your associates' biography from newspapers, so I learned from one daily newspaper about Assistant Ilic, who worked as a lawyer, was in two terms president of SO Valjevo, president of the UO "Jablanica". There's nowhere to be seen, not even from his work, and he was an expert in road traffic. About your Secretary of State for Air Traffic, who doesn't have a day of experience in the Air Force, I don't even want to comment, you know that. With some of your statements, you come to contrast with the situation that exists in your ministry with the people who are being set up. I'm not just talking on the SPS line, I'm talking on the political line, I'm talking on the ruling coalition line, and infrastructure problems are still not being solved. Don't, Mr. Minister, that another strategy once again states that some period from 1990 to 2000 has caused major problems, that this period is being replaced with the years 2007, 2008 to 2011, and I hope that this government will not last that year and that you will end your mandates in the current year... (President: The time at your disposal has been used). Thank you. In the debate on amendments, we will try, just one more sentence, that the argumentation of the amendment proposed by the SNS really takes seriously, not because of us, not because of politics, because of the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53304	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53305	Mr. Mico, why are you so negative? Be optimistic, you've always been. (President: Please do not disturb each other). Don't take traffic, vice versa. I expect your full support. A fellow beside you laughs, a third-class man, my good friend laughs. Give support to these projects, if anything, because of me. Don't make your marketing on me. I'm sorry there's no leader or deputy. Give one project support. Say, well, it's been hard, but people are moving, they're doing something. Then I'd be happy and happy. Not to spread the subject now, the answer to your amendments, most of your amendments, now that I've picked up the papers after the cabinet session, most of your amendments have already been incorporated here, but your proposal, as much as I appreciate you, to make a bill, to forward to the government tomorrow, that the operational service will do so. You see how I respect everything new. At least you know me. You have no reason to break up with me. In traffic, of course, it's not all good. I know that. There are 150,000 people living in traffic today. They strike for the first time yesterday. And those people are hard to live for, of course. I'm not talking about people who are in transport, vans, etc. now, not giving Mr. Avramovic creamworth, to call me back. They're hard to live for, but we're fighting. I said – the barometer of any success of our economy is just transporters, van owners, taxi drivers. When it does, and the economy is on the move, and people have more money and it goes forward, but one government can't handle it all in one term, and I'm a man who answers his job personally, and that's why I prayed one more time, all about traffic is strictly my responsibility. No one else is responsible here, no one in the government but me, and I will do everything I can until I've been replaced. I suggested it twice today. Here, and I'm giving you that chance, so suggest you take me out. I don't mind. Until you change me, I will do everything I can to make those 150,000 people live, and their families, and to make the state live better. I tried to explain things around Corridor. It's so clear, there's nothing more to say and ask. We'll finish this Corridor, of course, but you must have more patience. That's why I need optimism. I always get out of here all happy, some time sad when some friends on the left, but give a little more optimism to the citizens, so criticize me. Of course I didn't get to do everything. What I could do, I did, but give the optimism a little more. Thank you, Mr. Mico.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53306	You will be entitled to a replica, but on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today after 1800 hours, no matter how it may seem, just in case, until we finish this agenda. National MP Mico Rogovic, right on line, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53307	Mr. Minister, at no time did the SNS, my colleague and I touch the second and third points that speak of what you say to me. We are talking about the problem of a legal solution, which is not in line with the laws in the environment, with EU regulations and these provisions lead to the problem of functioning the economy. We'll be with a smile the moment you can make this right. I'm telling you one more time, is it possible in one small town to provide a bus driver with a bus to traffic on a five-way line? These are the legal solutions proposed by this bill. That's what we're talking about today. At no time have we entered into the credit problem, the completion of the necessary infrastructure needed by the Republic of Serbia, but do not stop your legal solutions at all threatened businesses and business entities, and do not cause some solutions to put people in a position to literally work in the gray economy and on black and the state itself loses, and they also lose citizens, the most states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53308	Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53309	Mr. Minister, you mentioned that we should write some kind of law, try to solve an area. I'm just going to tell you that one of the greatest achievements is to place these four ramps and two tin houses on the payment ramp of the Fireman. I don't need to tell you anything else. For more than a year, there is a bridge at the Smederevo payment ramp, the most common overpass. Is there anything else I need to tell you? There's no problem with building efficiency, there's a problem with performers and those who ordered the works. The biggest achievement of the road company and some director, I think for the charge, the toll, some Milenko, is to write a rather humiliating decision and forward it to the incasans, to be searched by the MPs on the payment ramp, as if we were criminals. Why don't you, when you say you want to accept something from the SNS, don't you accept the law on public procurement, amending and supplementing the law? All agree, both the media and even some party members of the ruling majority, to lose 800m to a billion euros annually because of the bad Public Procurement Act. Turn it into meters, miles of highway, you'll get it all figured out.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53310	The word has a National MP Milan Avramovic, followed by National MP Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, do you know who owns the Atlas Electronics Company? I will introduce you, no less than Mr. Djordje Nicovic, a large sponsor of SNS, in which most members and officials are so-called. employees, who receive wages, who have neither profession nor knowledge, nor even come to work. One of them is Belgrade City Committee Chairman Nebojsa Stefanovic. That's why they, Mr. Minister, can't even talk about these other two points, because Mr. Nicovic has just applied for this third point, so that it is a company that will remotely read electricity, shuts down and burn, as he has already done in some local self-government in Serbia. But, I want to say, in order not to be concerned with them, they're neither the subject nor deserve it, I'm going to remind you that it was never in practice that a rabbit can teach a goat how not to eat cabbage, so don't expect to get anything more concrete in that fight when it comes to an analysis of any law, because I, on behalf of the SRS, protest that these three things are connected and we don't have a business opportunity to talk objectively about each point individually. Not to enter now into the analysis of Niteks, Matkat from Surdulica and any criminal proceedings against the director of these companies, whose owner is no less than Financer Djordje Nicovic, then you will understand why they can't even discuss this. So, if we take on the other side that I'm making a firm that, we can say freely, lobbying is no less than the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic, and on the third hand we have another one, let's say, the producer of the Rudnap Group, Mr. Vojin Lazarevic's Meter & Control, who is also the funder of one political party in the ruling coalition, then we come up with three things, a conflict that will come up with this money to read the current remotely and which is why scale and purpose. Essentially, when we ask whether it is necessary at all -- it is necessary, whether people working in EDB have problems with reading electricity -- they have, but whether the solution is remote reading because they cannot approach the clock because of pets, fences, interphones or because of what they cannot settle their debts to the EDB is a question for discussion. Since we don't have time for this debate, as a trafficker, I'm going to address you in relation to this law on changes and road traffic supplements and what I saw in general in the SRS, analyzing the law itself, which we find problematic here. Therefore, the most problematic thing is to amend and supplement Article 7, an existing member of Law 9, in which a passenger transport can be carried out by a company or another legal person who owns at least three registered buses, so there goes a second position, a third position, because of the citizens and because of the time not to read everything, but what is controversial in this law, Mr. Minister, is that the recipient of the lising is considered to be the owner of a vehicle within the meaning of the first, second, third and fourth position of this member. If we take the analysis that the owner of the vehicle, someone who took the vehicle to the losing position, put it in the same position as the real owner of the vehicle that bought or earned it, or paid for it, then we get huge problems. I'll remind you at the very beginning of the Financial Lising Act that is still in force. I don't know how the Legislative Committee declared this law without any burden, because it cuts directly after the Financial Lising Act. It's like this: entities in the financial lease business, the entity's definition, in the business of the lease, are the lender, the recipient, the supplier. Article 10 says: a leaser is a person who, while retaining property rights, is a subject of a lising. So, Mr. Minister, retaining property rights on the object of the lising, can't be the one he's given to own the vehicle, conveys to the leaser the authority to hold and use on the object of the lising. Therefore, the recipient of the lising within the meaning of this law is the legal and natural person to whom the leaser transfers the authority to hold and use the object of the lising, with the agreed time and with the agreed fee. This law defines that a user of vehicle losing cannot own it. Because of the many problems that arise in today's difficult economic situation, people can't pay off all the vehicles, end up in a court procedure, end up under some temporary measures and have vehicles taken away and cannot be subject to capital trading in any other procedure. You best know what your schedule is for companies that are big, that have 40-50, vehicles, so you say they're big, they hire a large number of workers, so we give them priority. How are we going to put in the same position as the one who earned 30 trucks with his work and the one who bought it, by privatizing a company, made it possible for himself in a bank position to take 30 lorries on a losing trip. So, they need to be even now, this one can challenge and not have to, and whoever made 30 trucks in the same way as this one that didn't do it, or what's yet to be done in principle, I want to be good to my mother, but if it will be, it stays from the situation on the ground. Article 13 states that a contract in which a leaser and a supplier are the same person is not considered to be a financial lease contract within the meaning of this law. Why am I reading this article 13? Why are there over 500 trucks headed to the Sosite Generals Bank? If the bank lists and withdraws those vehicles, it should be able to compete for anything else, and for directions, and for going out and for going to the EU or anywhere else. So this Article 7 or Article 9 of the existing Law, the position of the 5th Sea, Minister, to be deleted in order to enable an even position, so that there is no problem on the market itself. The attempt to get it through the law, the recipient of the lising is considered the owner of the vehicle, is the intention to mutilate, we can say, unfair competition in business and play already existing law such as the Leasing Act, and the Vehicle Registration Regulation because then we have problems. The owner of a vehicle whose face is legally or physically, since I wrote this, so that he doesn't spend a lot of time, so that it's faster, which he paid for in full or bought the vehicle as a whole, didn't pay for the first licking war and become the owner, it becomes clear that he can't be in the same legal status. Which is why this possibility can also be used by other people's credibility and the passing of banks and funds and to come to a guarantee to withdraw a large number both on the lease and on the disbursement, because in that case no one would take, Mr. Minister, a loan but would all use the licking, so if they return it - return it, if not - no, credit would not be a popular measure. If presented as owners, it goes legally to them, they can ask for all the prerogatives that the state provides, discounts on fuel, discounts on tyres, more transport permits, international passenger transport lines and others, because they have proven themselves to be large customers. Where? I mean, I want to buy a truck, but only when I pay off what I have to do, and it can be and it doesn't have to be. You will also have to admit that already and now there are such companies that have misused the lysing variant, presented themselves to a large company, and there are no accounts in this status that if new licenses for new directions appear, it is those who are users of the lysing can withdraw, unlike the permits that the ministry received by some agreement from a country, a new lysing vehicle and that, based on the total number of vehicles, they take these permits for themselves, which is certainly not a wish or effect. As a result, there is also revolt in transportation from people who have been saving and buying for years, keeping the company alive. Now I would not give you more examples because the essence of what I have been looking for is understood and I suppose this one amendment to this article will be more than adopted to protect consumers and competitiveness, so that it will not be unfair. What is also important in the bill itself and what needs to be included are the conditions for drivers to have in today's period. Article 9 of the existing law or of Article 7 of the amendment states this: car taxi transport may be carried out by a car taxi carrier owned by at least one registered passenger vehicle. This means that a taxi can have ten vehicles registered and that it uses one and that it forms a variant of a company, although it is defined differently by law. Article 35 states: the car taxi operator is required to include a taximeter when starting transport. It's a normal phenomenon that was. That's what I think is preventing her from showing up at a train station where the price hits in advance, even in a currency that isn't ours. And this, he says, the car carrier for the service carried out charges the transport price in the amount that shows the taximeter at the time of completion of the transport. Mr. Minister, this can't produce fruit because most of the associations who want to have as much work as possible give a discount on phone calls and if the meter shows one tariff and includes a phone call, which can't be installed in a taximeter, you'll see that this provision can hardly be respected. What makes me say that? Because the same member of the 27th municipality, the city and the city of Belgrade, by its decision determines the appearance of a roof mark, determines and coordinates the economic lowest price. From that economically low price, if you take 20% on the phone call, you will see that this provision will not be respected. What would also draw attention to is that this involvement of the ministry in helping drivers in another way, that it was fortunate that there was a traffic law itself or that there was a ministry of traffic, and then we could touch all the topics and help in every kind of problem, but essentially, when it's already packed into one ministry because of the alleged savings of the administration, what it is complaining about is the following: the punishment of a legal person in a legal person. So he says, the bill also establishes new business offences and violations, envisioning violations where fines are charged at the scene of the offence, changing the range of prescribed fines for established business offences and violations. So if we take the Traffic Safety Act and we take this bill of yours, how will the taxi driver act or how the cab driver's association behave if one rule applies to the driver of the truck in which it is said – if he violates the provisions of the member that he was driving at an unauthorized speed, that he had a device that interferes with the radar, that he has a overload of the axle and pays the fine of a legal person in a legal person or a legal person rather than a driver, why isn't that implemented in this case? I'll remind you this, too, that taxi drivers need to be helped, so that taxi drivers' views should be determined in relation to their purpose of use, not for the purpose of how the city determines it. The city can determine a position where it is suitable for it, where it has its own land so as not to make an expropriation, this or that, without having a job that's much more necessary than what it is. Then you have a situation where there are no conditions for a cab driver to get out of the vehicle at a taxi stop, go to an emergency, in the meantime a inspector shows up and finds a vehicle without a driver, he has to write a ticket, and taxi stops have no prescribed and secure everything they should have. So basically these problems and whatever. Of course, they are not so resolute and not established that they would improve the lives of people who deal with transportation both humans and things. I would like to draw one conclusion about this whole law, if we take aid in reducing customs rates, take the necessary measures provided for by law, prevent illegal international passenger transport, build a remoter if there are any other things that are necessary to enforce this law as soon as possible, perhaps this law would bear fruit only for the next period. It's inadmissible for now, and I think you're early with the same one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53312	Thirteen minutes and 30 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. After that, the Messenger of the people, Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53313	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since my group's time is quite limited, I'll base my story only on Corridor 10. Corridor 10 is actually imagined and is actually part of an international highway that should connect the Middle East and Western Europe through our country. Since the highway in Serbia lost the status of trans-European highway in 1997, we started thinking in 1997 and, in fact, doing and working towards the creation of our Shkodra on the Bojana called Corridor 10. For example, Croatia built 1,100km of highway in 10 years. If Corridor 10 had been miraculously completed, it would have brought a billion euros in Serbia's annual Serbian budget. Unfortunately, we failed to make it, and the budget is more empty each year for a billion euros. The government of Mirko Cvetkovic has said from the very beginning that Corridor 10 is the most ambitious project to introduce both the government and Serbia and the third millennium in a fundamental and symbolic way. They announced it was her priority and announced it was Serbia's path to Europe. The beginning of these work completions, as announced by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, was launched on 14 July 2008 at a section near Presevo, where, by some miracle, ironically or completely deliberately, and the project was launched in 1997, when works opened by then Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic. It's just that I can't take one association, that between Mirko and this Mirko Cvetkovic, it's been a few years for Serbia, that Serbia has returned to the same place and that Serbia, thanks to this other Mirko Cvetkovic, has returned to those 1990s, to those scenes where ministers, prime ministers and presidents of the state took pictures on those rare shares where something was done and represented Serbian citizens that Serbia is a major construction site. Then after that July 14th, 2008, the time of the great bidding came. Some of these bids are very interesting, so I'll read them. The statement by Mirko Cvetkovic from 11 May 2009 – in 30 days the work begins on the southern part of the Corridor and will meet the New Year's plan, ending 40 kilometers. Let me tell you, it's almost 20 kilometers to this day. Then, the statement by the present minister, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, since 26 May 2009 – keeps things under control. I don't want to comment, maybe it wouldn't be optimistic. The papers won't stop anything anymore. I don't feel guilty about the delay of Corridor 10, because there's no delay. The papers won't stop anything. Twice in the same sentence, just to convince you that's the case. If I fail, I'll resign. The corridor will be completed by 1 May 2012. The accident is that the term is close. By the way, on another promise from Mr. Minister, the same Mr. Minister to the President of the Council for Infrastructure and Citizens of Serbia, where he says -- the highway from Novi Sad to Sudotica will be completed by March 2011. Either the highway is finished, so it hides from Serbian citizens, or Serbia is still in March. Something's wrong. Minister Dulic acknowledged what Serbia had long known, and what the Serbian government was forced to say now -- from Corridor 10, there is nothing left. It was an empty promise at the time of the election campaign. Today it will be one of the unfulfilled promises the government made to Serbian citizens, something like those thousand euros, something like a European standard, something like those 200,000 new jobs. Dulic cited the unexpected technical problems with a domestic operation that worked in Vojvodina as a reason. It says – there were not enough railway compositions that would make stone for the northern leg of Corridor 10. I'd like your comment on this. What is amazing, and this happens after the government's reconstruction, that ministers have a vow of silence, investors still, and we don't know, and Mr. Dulic didn't answer that, he didn't want to point out – what other problems have plagued the builders? Nobody else wanted to talk about it. We didn't ask Homer, so I'd like to hear it from the minister. Are they unprofessionally prepared tenders, which led to most of them being shot down? Is it a three-way and sloppy development of major projects, many of which had to be redesigned because foreign investors asked for it? Is it a strike? Mr. Minister mentioned today, and we saw in the media that 700 Nibens Group workers strike yesterday in front of the Privatisation Agency in front of the ministry. Mr. Secretary spoke to them. They explained that they were not paid enough, that they were not paid for 2009 and 2010 and they were asked to either pay them, or they would radicalise their strike. I'd like to talk about the south leg, too, 'cause I'm from the Colubary County. In June 2010, in a very pompous manner, works on building the future highway Belgrade – South Adriatic, on the Likovac-Ub section, which is 12.6 km. Mr. Minister, don't do anything. I checked. There's only a few workers and a machine around the Unspeakable. There's nothing going on. I have to tell you that by introducing this law of silence, it's very annoying for the citizens. The citizens are asking me to ask Mr. Minister if I have a chance, what is this all about? Is the expropriation complete? Is there anything new about that? Just to point out that the story of Dimitrovgrad with expropriation is finished by sending people to court, and that little part that's done is done on someone else's land. What is also a fact, it is that the Council for Infrastructure, and the Serbian government, have realised that they must change something in their citizens' address. The B-Plan is now being drawn up, which is that, by the end of the term of office of this government, at least the work on all the shares of the Corridors will begin. If it should all look like it's working, that it's dusting everything out of it, that some of it's painting, I don't believe, Mr. Minister, that Serbia will eventually be able to take pictures with you on those corridors. I wish I had more optimism. I'm not black or anyone who thinks that way. I am sure that the optimism of Serbian citizens is not lacking, precisely because the elections are nearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53314	The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53315	Thank you very much. With special pleasure, I will answer you, Mrs. Vojić Markovic. Let's get out of the little things. I mean smaller, and it's all big life issues. There's a second time I can hear Dimitrovgrad. The first time I heard it, I reacted. There's a reaction and a mine today, but it's a builder thing. I've warned them several times. I don't know if there's any problems with the expropriation again, but I haven't heard it until today. What? About the expropriation? (Milica Vojić Markovic, from the place: Nothing is finished. In the morning, if not today, you have information tonight. I'll be there next week, but I'll see if that's it. It's that little thing. The large thing – on the part from Ub to Lykovec, the length of that section is 12.5 km, there is work and there was no pompous opening at all. Why does that bother you so much? I don't know who was there. Nobody. They started only with the works, the tender was over, everything was tendered legally, our performers were elected, people were doing everything they had to do. It's December. Check, you see the stages of work. The citizens are completely calm because there's been an expropriation there. Business is going well. That's what I said to my colleagues earlier. Don't exactly criticize everything. Business is going well. You know, you know, you know everything. Negotiations with other firms are being conducted in the government, I don't run them, otherwise I'd answer that question. There was a question about Turks, etc. I don't run them. They're run by another government team. As for the North Leg of Corridor, I don't know what Mr. Dulic was explaining to you here, he, a boy, was a doctor and he was doing that job. I repeat, the northern arms of Corridor 10 will be finished by July 1st or, as you just said, if Dulic said, with an ipislon arm by October 1st. We're three months late. It's a question I keep asking you. I haven't noticed, and for a long time in this business, that anyone before me and back in the 1990s and this time I've been talking about some deadlines, I haven't noticed, I'm not mad. I'm glad everyone's talking about deadlines now and at least by keeping it in mind. I'm telling you that the northern leg of Corridor 10 will be ready by July 1st, along with the bridge, and this year you will go to Horgos highway. If that's not clear, I'll do it again. What were the problems? Those problems are familiar. I don't share my problems with you. These are my problems, I solve them with people who do it or I avoid going back to the period when I wasn't a minister at all. I don't want to call anyone. However, this government brought its policy, the corridors were politics and former governments, I remember ten before the 1990s. Unfortunately, we're not done, I agree with you. Now it's time to finish because we have conditions. I won't say what could have been done years ago, but it's enough to say once again, without pretentiousness, I always apologize because there are four former ministers sitting here, which is very nice to me, and it helps me a lot when I talk to you here because they understand the problems. I don't want to criticize anyone. It was just another policy. I agree with you, national transport infrastructure policy, at least the global ones, means general, must be unique to all governments that will work in this country until they're finished. Right, the Croats have worked for ten years, spent 15 billion and are now being arrested, that's correct. They've worked for ten years. We've only been working on Corridor 10 for three years, working on this ending for three years. I respect everything that's been done before. What we're doing right now is three hundred and thirty miles away. What do I do? Half the highway or the highway. It's the numbers, please, whoever wants to hear from me, come to my office, it's all on the boards, that's what I put in for the press. So, 330 kilometers, we have to make it, if in three, four years, it depends on how. Please, we didn't finish the main project until this year. I guess that's clear to everyone. We haven't even finished the expropriation yet, we're doing it, but don't stop the realization. All tenders are based on international standards when it comes to international loans. And our tender for the north was a tender for domestic performers. They all answered. There wasn't any baulash. We absolutely respected all the laws of this country in which I, I admit, wanted to go in some things, which you would say, before the deadline, but we respected everything. So if there is one serious project today that we should all finish together, that's it. I've always boasted that when I come to Parliament, I enjoy talking about corridors, because all people are aware that it's our job that's very important. It's important, we have to finish it. I repeat once again, I'm not joking with those resignations at all, there's no speech. If there are any more capable, I'm willing to get out of the opposition, same as you, to make it end. When you talk about companies, one axiom this government has accepted, I was the first advocate of it, rarely in the government I say things outside of this job that I am now doing, such a man, it was an axiom – we have to give work to our people. But all the companies that were privatized, as privatized, we know, were incapable of doing big highways and projects. These were companies that maintained all major companies, such as the Partizan Road, the Autoway, the New Highway, the Planum, etc., were privatized. These people didn't do it. The first thing that was to pay back the debts that remained from the previous period objective, I'm sorry there's no Velja, that's 300m euros. Someone asked, I didn't have time to answer, I think Mr. Jovanovic, now I'm answering. These debts have been paid back in full tolls. First of all, to stabilize our pathways. That was my initiative. Then we watched how to train them. Believe me, except for one or two companies, except for Putev Užice and perhaps the PPP of Belgrade, the others do not have a license to do 10km of highways. So to get a license, they have to do it one year. We watched how to put it without getting into legal trouble. I'm glad you asked me this, because I was ready, right now, to tell you, these are the risks I was talking about, and that's why I'm more at risk than the minister, so we understand each other. I was aware of that. I've been a candidate for the minister ten times, so I didn't accept. I'm not bragging, I'm just saying. So the risks were needed to run that wheel, which now cannot be stopped. That's why I'm satisfied. I think no future government that comes, at least according to what I feel here, no matter what the criticism, I accept everything, will stop with the corridors. That's good. We've covered these companies with money, created conditions to buy machinery on the lease or whatever, never mind, we've trained human beings and given them a job. That's 25,000 builders working. The only problem we have now with Nibens is a large group of these companies, there are 5,500 workers, they are privatized as they are privatized. We'll settle that question very quickly. These days, we're going to solve this issue. There are some things, not now is the time to talk about it, but the state cares about it. These people didn't strike at any time on a construction site. I was there yesterday. I was at Ubba yesterday. I went to Ub and North. As far as that goes, don't worry about it. We have to have an understanding. In international tenders, I'll say two that are now in play. For southern Serbia, Grabovnica, Grdelica, where tenders go, and Vladic's Han-Neradovci, it's about 30 and a few kilometers away, the total value is about 300m euros, 25 companies appear and our companies are always close. If they show up, we can't intervene there, get along. That's where we respect absolutely all the ouses, the banks wouldn't allow it. It's one big problem that I'm dealing with today, how our companies get into the realisation of these projects, or going as cooperatives or subcontractors, etc. But that's another topic. That was a big problem. I don't want to spread that problem because we'd mostly solve it. I'd just like to say that there will always be a priority for these governments in general, not only mine, for the construction operation to get its job. I'm talking about surgery. I'm not talking about material producers, who also have a chance at the construction process, but it's not my portfolio, it's being run by Mr. Dulic and let him talk about it. So, what I think you should as MPs to know or in that part ask for your support, although you gave it to me, regardless of these criticisms that go personally to me, I accept that as personal criticism. There's no way anyone in the government is responsible for that job except me. That's true. Please give me all the criticism while I'm a minister. I ask you only in that sense to understand, the dynamics that are now coming will certainly be much faster than what we've organized so far. So I'm asking you to back me up so that we can continue to work on the future government as well. Don't get attached. When we talk about deadlines, I have explained it several times in the media and I repeat it once again, the deadlines are spoken to us like this – we will enter the EU, now I will not call anyone again, at this time and at that time and we are now in our 20s. So what if we're three months late? We created the conditions that our construction operation, now all our contractors can compete for any stock. It has its price. That's why I'm asking because this job we're doing right now is a responsible job and he's hiring, Mrs. Vojić Markovic, people. That job still requires a little patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53316	Right on line, MP Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53317	Mr. Minister, I don't know why you think you should yell to convince me. There's no reason. I can accept the argument, but I haven't heard an argument from you. When you talk about dynamics being faster now, I don't know what makes you say that. What are these parameters based on which you can claim it, based on which I could trust you? When you talk about deadlines, and these two things are very tied up, you're giving some deadlines that are obviously out of line with what you can accomplish on the ground, and that's why you're simply putting yourself in a situation where people don't trust you anymore. If you miss the deadline ten times, it's just the 11th time nobody's gonna believe you. With that in mind, this is my finding -- what are the parameters by which we can believe that dynamics will be faster? Next, you told me that these were your problems and that there was no need for you to explain them. Unfortunately, if it were just your problems, I wouldn't have asked you to explain them. It is simply your personal matter, but these are the problems of Serbian citizens, because Serbia does not end Corridor 10. Serbia has a problem, citizens have a problem and therefore these problems must be open here, they must be spoken of. There's no reason for you to keep them quiet, because they're our common problems. The third thing, when it comes to this southern leg, this section from Ub to Lykovec, 12.6 kilometers, where you keep telling me that the jobs are going great and that there will be no delay. I have to ask again what you're saying to me, because in three months when we see each other, you're going to tell me, well, I'm a little out of deadline, I just like to give deadlines. You don't do jobs there, Minister, but at the Unspeakable you've got some workers, there's no people, there's no machines. I don't know how these jobs are done, if there's nothing, just virtually maybe.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53318	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53319	I just said that, I'm sorry, I'm not yelling, but I'm saying it doesn't matter to you, of course. I was there yesterday, I don't know where you were looking. If you go from the direction of Lykovec, to the left, a mile and a half, people drill the pillars and drill the power points for bridges. There are four large bridges on that section, which limit the facility, just like on the northern arm of the Beška bridge one project, and it's been working for five years, it's not done by this government, it's done by the previous government. That's how bridges are important. With Dimitrovgrad, tunnels are limiting factors and they matter. So when I said I wasn't explaining the construction technology, she had her own technology, so how do I follow? I just tried to explain. So far, until business is arranged, you can talk like you're criticizing me, said Mrko, so there's no deadline. Now business and deadlines are agreed, for Ub-Lajkovac it's December 5th, it seems to me, there's a contract. For Dimitrovgrad, where the World Bank is, there's a contract and you know what the deadline is. For Dimitrovgrad, the second leg, two parts are working there, heading towards Piroth, there are deadlines in contracts. The moment the tender is called and the World Bank or the European Bank, where credits are, and most of all credits are now, we start counting the deadlines that are agreed on. Check the contract. That gives me what I tell you right. Of course, the business directorate, the Serbian Corridors, will sanction all those who do not follow those deadlines, it is no longer my business. It'll be my final form, but that's how you follow the deadlines. Since we already know today that we are these tenders that we have called and those that are being negotiated within the deadline, these are deadlines that we can follow. The World Bank can no longer stop the moment the contract is signed. I trust what I'm saying. We'll have all the contracts signed, we already have most of them today. They'll follow through Serbia's Corridors and you'll have information here on a regular basis. Personally, if I stay a minister, I'm going to argue that's how it's gonna be, in the next three months, that's what the minister thinks, I don't mean later. That guarantees me what I'm saying right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53320	Right to the replica of the National MP Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53321	Thank you, Mr. Minister, just to clarify one thing, that one and a half kilometers from Lykovec, that's the Unspeakable story I'm talking about, there's something going on and on. Let me tell you something else, every day I go there twice, at least twice a day I see how it works and how it works. In my opinion, and everyone who lives around here doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53322	Donka Banovic has been reported. Baseline, did you mention, breach of the Rules of Procedure or?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53323	Thank you. If I can, since the minister has called for my previous discussions when it comes to Dimitrovgrad and expropriation, he didn't directly mention me but obviously if I can clarify a few things here. You remembered well, on two occasions and in 2009, and last year I was talking about the problem of land expropriation. When you last remembered, I was saying that people and landowners had and that they stopped the machines from working, because that question wasn't regulated. Namely, they were offered a price for the second and third-class land of about 360 dinars. That's when you intervened in the sense that you were saying that the police were harassing these people and taking them out of the construction site. That's what they did. I don't know what kind of associates you have and how they keep you informed. Nothing's changed about that. The price was changed. That problem still exists. What my colleague said was that leg being built, but it's being built on other people's land. They were at other places of expropriation, so an appropriate price was given for the country's proper quality. Believe it or not, all these people are in court and they're still not scheduled after a year and a few days of no hearing. I ask you to ask your associates how long that style is and to tell people from the Ways of Serbia that they once tell the truth, and not to tell you that everything is settled here, and nothing is actually solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53324	The word has a minister, Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53325	Thank you very much, Mrs. Banovic. Today, as soon as I'm done, I've already called Mr. Music. So, Serbia's Corridors, I repeat once again, Serbia's Corridors as a stockholder society, where there are 25 engineers and a special sector for expropriation, the most roads, but the roads together work with them, are obliged to do the job until the end. They're responsible to me, and of course I'm responsible to you. So, they keep me informed, let's say today there was information that there were fires, mines, so stones, etc. Even to those details, I made them refer to me daily so that there wouldn't be a problem with the citizens. I'll check today and, I give you my word, tomorrow you'll have information about what's in the specific case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53326	The word has been given by the MP Radisa Ilic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53327	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the work of the National Assembly so far when a debate was being held for the adoption of some laws or their amendments and additions, there were usually two reasons. The first reason is called the EU and its directives, although these directives are inconclusive and immeasurable in our terms. Another reason is to adapt to the needs of certain interest circles of monopolist associations in order, I would say, to make their own, or to legalise their positions. If this law is not under the pattern of an EU directive, with which the EU regulation will then be brought into line because it will likely come on the agenda sometime. As far as the SRS is concerned, if someone does not misread it, we are not sorry that these changes are not in line with EU directives, but rather wondering how they will improve the road traffic in Serbia. It'll all take time until some clerk in Brussels says, send a message, delete that law, here's a new road traffic law, and then it'll all be clear. Of course, Mr. Minister, this is the condition you found when you came to your post and you are aware that something has to change. But what's most needed for this whole venture, including this Corridor 10, which is so often talked about today, is money and it's huge. You were right to ask yourself a few questions in the debate – where are the many funds from the west that entered Serbia after October 5th? We only extend this question of yours – where are the money from the great privatisation that took place immediately after October 5th? So, if these assets were invested in Serbia in infrastructure, they would immediately be seen in the standard of citizens, therefore the infrastructure would be better. We should be here again to listen to the praise of this new law that we probably won't be able to implement. First of all, we don't have financial security for the carriers. Secondly, bureaucratic procedures, if I may say so, especially transport and internationally, are very slow. Thirdly, the transport service system is slowly returning, I can literally say, in feudalism. You know, the company won't pay for transportation services. It's just that people are brought before a final act or where they take their vehicles because they can't pay the rates for the lollipop. The master simply turns the vehicle into a loading dock, takes the pole and regulates the load of goods and thus settles the debt in nature. As a fourth, a desperate infrastructure. I'm from Paracino Community. I often pass the Paracino road section – Zaječar, you know that it is reconstructed. I have to say, for a long time, the malts until about five or six days ago, there was almost nothing going on there. A few months ago, maybe from the fall, there were scattered curbs, put up shirts, left stakes, and just now it's starting to work. It is likely that many MPs who were in Bor last year, when there were extraordinary local elections, all of us saw those bridges that were in the reconstruction phase. We had those moving traffic lights. Unfortunately, we've often had the opportunity to see that the malts on those bridges were not doing anything. There was literally no living soul, and we know how long it took. Although, you'll probably say, that's the problem with the performer, who's a little sloppy about it. But, well, mostly citizens suffer for it. The problems that are evident in road traffic must only be solved by good laws and their effective application. We are all aware that many laws, that we are not moving away to other areas, specifically in terms of traffic or transport infrastructure, are difficult to apply for the simple reason that some, we must say, are brought back-to-date to meet some of the deadlines and conditions for the mythic acquisition of EU membership candidates. Now, if we're going to introduce some new interpretations of remotes, routes, taxi tariffs, that won't be able to solve any problems, and our bureaucratic combinations, especially with international transport, are, believe me, just over everyone's head. We remember last year and before last year what problems the carriers had that carried fruit and vegetables to Russia. If all that is added, I would say a very bad infrastructure, then Serbia's picture is complete. I'm simply asking in which country can this kind of situation happen so that, say, a new asphalt can be placed on one section of the highway, the highway is marked with ribbons, and that after two or three weeks, impact holes appear? That anyone can check, there's a lot of us who travel every day. These are frequent pictures on our roads. Here's the freshest example of how efficient we are, and I'd say profitable, and the problem is from the beginning of March. It was in the media, too. The owners of cargo vehicles, which are due to receive new traffic permits, should wait for a certain lengthy period, even up to a month. What's that supposed to mean for that taxpayer? It's literally bankruptcy. It is said that it will receive confirmation from the MUP that no traffic permit has been issued in time, with which it will probably only be able to be taken if it wants to drive goods to the EU or Russia. There should be some kind of co-ordination with the ministries within the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in this case your ministry and the Ministry of the Interior, that people simply don't have that problem. Without that traffic permit, they also cannot obtain the particular documents they need for international transport. Who's losing? He loses the government's register, loses the entrepreneurs themselves who deal with these affairs. How important it is to legally regulate the transport of road traffic and the fact that with 10% of the loads are precisely transporting this type of traffic. Also, about 75% of the total number of road transport passengers. Some will likely find interesting information about the number of persons employed right in the business branch. There are about 25,000 people in Serbia in road passenger traffic, and 35,000 people in road freight. So, 60,000 people. Probably those 60,000 people and feed maybe 200,000 people in Serbia. It is a large social group, very important, thanks to which, we can say freely, Serbia is moving and working. You are now trying to improve something somewhat, but I'm afraid some changes in the law have arisen as a result of the pressure of certain structures, perhaps powerful associations of carriers, where perhaps places for small and small owners of means of transport will not be. However, those difficulties, which are all common denominators, which deal with this job, have resulted from perhaps the unsynchronised operation of individual ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, if you wanted to go to the government, you would remove these obstacles very quickly, and you would clearly improve the business of the carrier. This is how you force them to raise service prices. This automatically means an increase in product prices due to expensive transport and there is a vicious circle from which there is no exit. What are these problems that the Government can solve? First of all, you allowed, not you, but the government, banks to rob not only citizens, but also those entrepreneurs, carriers of unreal high interest on the lease to buy basic assets for work. You probably know for yourself, you've heard, they're full of payloads of stolen car owners who couldn't settle their obligations to the banks. Then, the value added tax is high for this type of activity. Do you know that almost everyone has a problem with that? Then, inability to charge for services provided. So, the whole procedure goes very slowly, especially through the court, and that for certain carriers, which should, say, charge huge amounts of money for the services done, can be literally the end, unless the court responds quickly and enables the collection of what they have earned. The fourth problem is that of which the EU has also warned you, which is double excise duties on oil derivatives. What can our carriers think that their tanks in neighbouring countries fill at 20% lower fuel prices? Also, the price of toll may be high and unreal for some of the roads, which may not meet certain standards, which are present in some other countries. Next, it doesn't take a few weeks for someone not to strike from the carrier. First they strike one cabbie, legal, and then they strike those who work on black. It goes a little bit, so they strike down the owners of the van of the vehicle, doing some sort of work again in the transport of people and goods. They'll probably be strikein' truck owners, buses, etc. soon. It's just, what do people do when they lose their jobs in this transition? They have no more people to live on, what to eat, how to heal and how to educate children. The exits were found, here, in the purchase of a vehicle that performs some work to earn a living and to pay a tax to the state. That's how social peace is maintained. Now one of the officials on duty in Brussels is looking at a particular directive and saying – it cannot, it is not allowed in the EU. Then by the way, you make other laws and everyone goes under ice. Then what do we have here in Serbia? Misery, hunger and poverty. As far as these vans are concerned, they had to go to the streets, you know, to prove that they couldn't possibly be in the registration class with expensive jeeps that reflect, we all know, luxury and that they can only afford the rich. In the reasons for the law-making, you cited, among other things, the problems of the car-tool carrier, their associations, trade unions. You believe this law will probably regulate it better. That's probably what your predecessors from 2001, 2005 and 2006, said, when changes and additions of these laws were also passed. Also, you plan to introduce order on the traffic market of transport and cell services. It's time to do something about it. Believe me, Serbia's roads, and you probably know it, cruises the kind of transportation means of certain carriers to wonder how they're even registered? We see them often on the roads. However, more often we see the corrupt standing in the parking lots than they carry out their obligation to them. Contrary to them, there are carriers who simply cannot get involved in the business of transporting passengers because of interest groups that have subscribed to the order of driving in which no one on the side can fit in, even though they have a rolling stock, to make a little joke, as they do from time to time. You should think about the possibility of legally making it easier for carriers to purchase second-hand buses from imports, which are in far better shape than those currently cruise our roads. For the sake of time, I'm gonna skip talking about punishment. Finally, I would just like to refer to the draft law confirming the ECS guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The state, as we have heard here, will buy electronic numbers from the Sazem, the French company, and we all know that in Nis the company within the electronics industry and professional electronics has been closed, which has also produced these numbers, as well as several other companies. This is a law that will raise 100% the popularity of the ruling coalition among citizens. I will now tell the citizens what will happen to them when the French electronic reading numbers are installed. So, in the future, respected citizens, maybe even for five dinars if you haven't settled the debt for electricity, you'll be remotely excluded. Now you think about whether it's a mistake, a malfunction or a shut-down. So, let me joke a little bit – tying up the charliners to the bandits has passed, that many have lost their jobs, that they have patients in the house, a small child, that they have no income, that they have no one to eat, will no longer have a coma and a "great brother" sitting in distribution will press a button, like some time machine from the EU or some of our status, to bring you back to the 19th century. Then they can raise prices to the sky, do whatever they want, because the state is in charge of buying basic assets to a public enterprise that won't care about the social cases it has more and more in Serbia, but will look at its business interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53328	14 minutes and 30 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53329	Let me just say something so I may warn you, that other debaters don't discuss much about the amendment. Just today, when I left here, and I thank you for letting me go, amendments were adopted, many of which are yours. I'm not going to comment on any of them right now, but just so you know, a lot of amendments have been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53330	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. After him, MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53331	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I had no intention of talking about the law my colleagues spoke of. I will talk about this guarantee related to the EPS or the corridor contract, some political and economic aspects of these two proposals for ratification. But before we get to them, I need to look back at something you said today. What you said is, to the most extent, not responding to the truth, which is that from October 5th to the day today 65 billion euros entered this country. According to some serious economists, the figure is 80 billion. So it's not less scary or a 65-digit number, but it needs to be called a real name, that number is 80 billion euros, and where that money went, mostly those who know are not ready to talk about it. Perhaps you could ask one of your colleagues from the government, one part or a large part of the government, where the money is, what have they been spent in? They must know. But I repeat, they're not ready to talk about it. I sincerely hope that in that context, time will do its job. Why did I mention this? I'll try to be picturesque. This country, according to science, was worth eight billion dollars and 10 years to establish on Corridor 10, in the rail sector, the standards you're talking about, that our trains are going 60 miles an hour. That's 10% of the amount someone's wasted on us over the past 10 years. That someone who spent 80 billion on us thinks it's enough for Serbia to get candidate status for the EU and that they go to the citizens and get another vote. That's why, Mr. Grouchy, we can't support it. We can't agree to that. We believe that these people and politicians are without credibility to do further work on Corridor 10, both on modernising the electricity industry and on everything else Serbia really expects and what Serbia is calling out for. You're bringing us into a very confusing situation right now. You say, we all agreed on this in the Assembly – you have support in the Assembly, you have projects, you have money, and infrastructure is not working. Then you say, objective difficulties. No, Minister, objective difficulties and you know well. The difficulties are subjective, and you yourself say that you are not ready to speak in this congregation. Remember, Mr. Minister, as long as the subjective difficulties of such character burden the work of both your and every other ministry, Serbia will not start to develop, nor will it have adequate travel infrastructure, nor adequate electricity, nor anything else. Since you're looking for optimism, the SRS is not against solving infrastructure problems. In 1991, we installed works on the Moravia-Vardar Valley, because the EU did not have a pan-European transport network at the time. There were no corridors. Then we sought and insisted on both rail and water traffic if it was possible to establish and travel. We weren't hearing anything. There was no political understanding for such a thing. And 20 years after that almost one step we didn't step back. What's the problem? These laws have been passed, namely these guarantees are required to be adopted under public debt laws and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If you have had the opportunity to listen to the debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget, the SRS has submitted amendments requiring budget deficits to be reduced by 30 billion dinars, to deny discretionary rights to ministers, to reduce permanent costs, ongoing maintenance, construction facilities and other pointless political projects financed, to reduce public spending. You've shown, not you, but the government, that it can be both rational and cheaper, to reduce the number of ministers, we've only waited three years for you to remember. So you can work with fewer people and be effective. They wouldn't. They had no political interest. We also suggested that certain loans and certain guarantees be removed from the budget. But no credit and no guarantee was related to loans that would have material value as reciprocity. Not a single one. Maybe there was something that was pointless, like they asked to build a new court building here in the city center, so they needed 15m euros. They've got a few abandoned and destroyed buildings, so they're gonna make a new one. That's what we're looking for. Nothing about your corridor we asked to take off, absolutely nothing. Or as far as Serbia's electricity is concerned. So that's our goodwill, and that's our understanding and need to finance from the loan something that's going to stay in the legacy for generations. You have no right, neither you nor anyone, to challenge understanding and the need to build, to build and to build. But the political will to do that will never be supported. A political concept that seeks support for this to be supported - cannot. You say - Corridor 10, 22 km is crossed. Yes, it is. But, Minister, they're only five kilometers in two lanes. That's what you and I know. Now I'm talking a little bar-patriot. I'm a radical from southern Serbia. At least in the context of Corridor 10 it's done down there. From Leskovec, Grabovnica, to the border. Why, Minister, is the SRS looking for this? Because economic stability, which Corridor 10 will provide, provides political stability. I came from Surdulica on Monday. From Grabovnica to Doljevac I passed three cars and one military truck. You can't drive from Jagodina to Belgrade from the crowd of maltena. That's why, Mr. Minister, in Bosilegrad or in Presevo and Bulgarian and Albanian, he's angry when he falls off the hook, so he's guilty of Serbia. That's why we're looking - we need a corridor in Predian. If you need to stand up to the tunnel mob, stand up. You stand up. Just like you're slapping your hand on a table here, you're pounding in the government. But make that corridor pass where the people have an interest. That's what Vlad's Han needs. We don't have bread downstairs to eat. The average salary is 2,000 dinars per capita. You know what that is? It's a disaster. From that point on, we're looking for Corridor 10. Because the story ends in Nis, because everyone goes to Dimitrovgrad and Gradin. And down you have border crossings – the Strezimirovci and the Fishermen. A third of the traffic to point down, we'd live. There you don't need potholes or hot water, there's only a little political will you need. It's not Serbia to Mladenec. And there's Serbia down there. Then you have an absurd situation for the former Deputy Prime Minister to appear and say – so we are going to change the laws now, to return the money to the ruined parts of Serbia. For ten years, he has mastered Serbia and finance in Serbia. And if anything depends on our support, we're the least of your problems, Mr. Minister. We live in a state of absurdity, no matter how well you talk about your ambitions and the intentions of this government. Here's why, Minister. Your sector, how is it possible that a job in the construction of road infrastructure gets companies that don't have one mixer and don't have one roller? They're dealing with dozens of things, and then they get this job, they trust it with a road company, whose workers are now strikein' in front of your government or the Ministry. Until you get rid of it in the government or those who are in the government ready for it, we can't see it, Minister. That's the main problem. How is it possible for the state to participate in the creation of a tender in which a job in adaptation or a replacement of carpentry will be given to a company at a primary school, and the tender requires that the company has 300 workers and four cranes. We're wondering where 80 billion is? In their pockets, ministers, mostly, ended up in pockets or accounts of an offshore company or their companies here in Serbia, they're just skillfully hiding. Someone else is an exhibit, and they hide, finance individual parties' campaigns, fund elections, finance their human, political, and who knows what kind of bahanals and needs. They mock all of Serbia, ten of them lords to all of us. That's why we can't support a government that's completely dependent on those. Maybe you're not yourself, don't take it personally. I'm simply speaking here from political aspects. I want to comment on this, too, count. That's what nobody was talking about today. My question is, did any of the MPs of the congregation ever see what they were going to vote for? They're not interested in ministers, they'll raise their hand. I guess that's the way it should be. We can talk about energy efficiency, so you want to introduce numbers, here we can find some better side of this project that you want to do, efficiency, economics, etc., although I believe that the government and EPS, as they are, will mostly use what Radisa Ilic was saying, that they are shutting down from one room with orderly defaults. But give them money, give them a job, settle your obligations and debts to those people, and then shut them down. They don't know where anyone is more hollow, more empty, more punctured. Take note now of this, the execution of guarantees, Article 3(3) 302: the guarantee is hereby irrevocably waived the rights to any objection or exemption under the law relating to the full or partial implementation of the guarantee contract, the guarantee is obliged to settle all obligations immediately after the first written request of the bank and to pay the due obligation, amount without any restrictions on the retention or condition and without imposing an obligation on the bank to attach any particular evidence in addition to its written request, other than the reason for the submission of the application in accordance with this contract. Let one of them tell me as the owner of a company or a company or as a natural person – if they were willing to sign one of these guarantees on their own behalf and in their own personal budget? But they think it's nobody's state, they don't care. To them is the state of Alajbeg's straw. What a general interest, what a public interest. Where's the responsibility? How can they ask citizens, Mr. Minister, for responsibility when they behave like this? No one has to prove anything, what do we care, it's the state, it's not us, it's not us, it's not coming out of our pocket. All those who come after them to power, the biggest problem will be to restore the credibility of the state. And money may come back somehow, but the credibility of the political, economic, the state, it'll take us a hundred years to get back, so political, economic and any other damage they've done to us. They make money, they make money. You save up and collect them, but the credibility of this country, it'll be coming back for decades, and the exponents of this policy can't work, and they can't ask for support for something like that, no matter how nice they talk about it in the election campaign. We live in a country, Minister, something that has nothing to do with this, and I'm going to finish quickly, in which the state exports wheat, so it brings its domestic market and production into question, so it bans the export of wheat, so it obliges the state to import 33,000 tonnes and at the same time enables the export of flour.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53332	14 minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic. Time is available for 14 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53333	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, the public is generally known as the SRS's position whenever we have such proposals at the assembly session to confirm various contracts, agreements, loans, etc. This time, it is a single ECS guarantee agreement for electronic numbers between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which should guarantee that the state of Serbia will guarantee those 40m euros in this otherwise distressed Serbian budget, otherwise the total value of this framework agreement is about 83.7m euros. Now what I would like to point out to this opportunity is that it seems that the competent or responsible have counted a little bit on this number business, and it seems to me in an irresponsible way to approach this job, and especially if it is in mind, and that some half an hour ago you said as your axiom, which is that the job should be given to our people, and I would like to say, for the sake of the public, that, for example, the production of numbers in our country, Serbia, deals with a total of seven companies, that about 500 employees were engaged in these jobs, that the capacity to produce about 300,000 counted annually or approximately as much as JP EPS are annual needs. It has also been in the past practice of calling various tenders across the parts of the Republic of Serbia. What's interesting is that these tenders have been knocked down, because by making such a decision they are practically in a direct or indirect manner and roughly violated by the laws of this country. When it comes to numbers, things have, unfortunately, changed dramatically, so it happened that for the first time, a tender has been called, where the law on public procurement has been practically suspended and what at least someone is declaring is indeed in favour, and that is to allow domestic producers the possibility of getting certain jobs, the possibility of making a certain profit, seems to be not respected at this time, because it requires a production of 100,000 counted in the previous three years to compete for the full amount. Such a condition could not be fulfilled, for in our country it cannot be sold so much. The foreign markets are unfortunately inaccessible in this area. Other countries are obviously much more priced by their producers than, unfortunately, by the state of Serbia and in such a tender, and certainly there have been such cases in other areas of the economy, domestic producers go out in consortiums to meet the conditions, this time with numbers fully adjusted tender conditions, because they turned to EPS as a buyer. Nothing, though. So from that famous parole that we're buying homework to rebuild Serbia in this particular case, it turns out that we're buying Sazam helping France. I don't know if it has anything to do with President Tadic's visit right now, but these are some facts that simply show that some order of things here is significantly disturbed. Whatever credit it is, my colleagues have been talking about this economic aspect, about the fact of returning in these next few years, about interest rates, etc., credit, therefore, approved by the European Investment Bank. It's interesting that EPS's advisor to this job, so in front of them, was French. Maybe it's a coincidence that "I'm" is the firm that got the job. Let the professional public say that these numbers, which are the subject of our debate today, are being made in Tunisia, that they have the export subsidies of the Tunisian government, domestic producers have no subsidies. The number of numbers was one at the beginning, I don't know, about 70,000 and another 4,220 measurement groups, and now suddenly it's almost three times the figure. The fact that the number offered has weaker technical performances than the domestic ones offered, that there is no valid approval by the accredited domestic industry, unfortunately, that domestic producers, despite the fact that they have invested a lot of money to satisfy all that is required of them, did not come across a positive reception. What is also devastating, I have already said, is the fact that there was no law on public procurement, so any appeal to this decision is not possible. Practically, any institution can take credit and declare the country's authorities incompetent. That's how it turns out, even though the law strictly states that it's not just about donations and nothing else. If we didn't treat these domestic firms the best confirmation and one case that happened in a formerly known company from our country, which was practically shut down three years ago, when they couldn't sell anywhere abroad, and then that formerly our common state decided to replace all existing old equipment with their new one, gave them vital help to survive and thus showed how to take care of their own interests. To domestic producers, I'm not going to say she's getting away, but obviously she's not helping. Whether it's a target of some kind of interest group or not, I really don't know, but it's obvious that if we can't make planes or space shuttles, at least those numbers are safe to know and have experience in it, the only problem is that we don't get a chance to really do it. It is also interesting that all offers had to be written in English only, that very strict financial and technical conditions were laid, that the European Bank sets some additional conditions which are obviously incompatible with the applicable Public Procurement Act. The fact that it can also worry is that the selected manufacturer does not have an atest of the measuring department for the total clocks being installed along with the electric number, and that the number has no certified timer. EPS officials also point out that this public company has been trying to obtain domestic producers' numbers through the tender over the last three years, not to succeed because they are challenging them. On the other hand, domestic producers point out that the EPS obviously does not take them, does not accept them as a serious partner, in spite of some declarative pawning, in the end, and the official recommendation of the Assembly Committee on Industry, all in order for domestic firms to take part in business in some way and thus help in this extremely difficult situation. Now that we have all this in mind, then we should not be surprised at the information that concerns and changes in electricity prices, because it is practically not those serious technical and economic disturbances that the government has caused probably this addition might look like a first- April joke, but unfortunately it is not because it is both legally and economically made precedents, and it is technically disrupted that principle of tariffing in the sale of electricity. Of course, for every commodity manufacturer, it's an important principle to stimulate customers, different forms of advertising to make them buy as much as possible, for larger customers it approves of lower prices. In the case of electricity, the manufacturer stimulates less consumption. It is an interest of society and state. That's the way it is with social problems. All countries in the world are helping socially endangered citizens and in the purchase of electricity, but not by forcing them to lower prices than by helping budget funds. The tariff system that stimulates customers in the electricity sector is used to adapt consumption to the technical characteristics of the system. Hence and night tariffs, and color tariffs and technical devices managed by consumption, i.e. the production opportunities and burden of the system shall be aligned. It seems to me that in this way or in this decision, all of this is disrupted, and time is likely to show that the gift is more expensive than the measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53334	Ten minutes of MP time was used. The People's Messenger Munir Poturak has the word, and after him is the Messenger Milan Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53335	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, what I wanted to say today about these three laws, are somehow as connected as we are in Pazar, Sjenica, Tutina, and all the way to Prepolje, because through this traffic there may be a life that people communicate with each other. If the joint forces of people are not united in that part, where the Sjenica only knows about winter and minus 30-40, and when the Novo Pazar Roads Company maintains the track which may be the most difficult in Serbia and your personal engagement is solved the problem of Sopocan towards the Upper Cave, only then will the people who are born on asphalt never know how much someone's path and the asphalting of the road to the Lower Cave, where you have made such a move that 15 villages get such good communication, which now whoever goes can find new houses in which families live and new business facilities where, most honestly, according to the data of the agricultural professional service in Novi Pazar, and the number of dairy and livestock producers are constantly growing. By building these roads in that space, each dinar invested has repeatedly returned, not only because of this economic potential that we give people the strength to choose for themselves, but because these people deserve, because they live for centuries and only in time depends on whether they can survive from year to year and survive, whether it will be a good year or it will be dry, rainy, and then it reflects their lives and whether they can fight to survive and survive. Thanks to you, thanks to your engagement in the last two years, several routes have opened your eyes to that people down there. I can only say that the road from Sjenica via Karoitić to Tutin has made that part that is to be completed, and it is planned this year, you were there, makes people who travel from Sjenica to Tutin have to go through the New Market. For three hours, you made it easier for people to travel, reduce their costs, connect them with what they do far easier to sell and offer the market. New milk purchase producers appeared, new livestock growers appeared. By your involvement, I can tell you that you have made over 50 routes in the area of Pazar, Sjenica and Lower Caves connect with each other. With your credit and thanks to Mr. Sutanovac, the engagement of Garnizon from the King and the Army and the engineering unit last year was done in that space for three months. The road is also connected through Deževa, Golia, Muhova and White Waters to Pazar, which is the key to connecting, as Mr Milan Vesenovic, my colleague said, that there are 14km of school on foot in the area, unfortunately. But it is an opportunity for private transporters to find a chance and to bring their business together with local authority, along with your involvement and Mr. Drobnjak from the Ways of Serbia, local self-government from Sjenica, Pazar and Tutina, and people who have been selflessly involved in it, as a detour around Pazar, something has been made that, as they say, opens the door for you, whether it be Minister or not, in the day at night, your door is open to you. I'm not saying this, of course, that, as they say, I'm only personally praising you, but I want our people to know that it can be done when something is planned together and when on that road together with local self-government, they plan to connect funds both locally and from the budget, both at the republican level and last year from the NIP. All that chemistry, those pillars of resources made it go that way. This year has also been planned and the whole point is that, they say, the circular route connects parts of the city with the centre. It's a very simple point. We're trying to tell people at the level of local communities that it's not a matter of priority and policy to separate parts -- whether they voted and cheered with the Sandzak Democratic Party or someone else. The question is that people moving towards the center have an easier path, to allow vehicles and a smaller number of seats to create circular tours along with local self-government because of the narrow streets. Let me explain some things about the lines themselves, whether they're city-level, suburban or inter-urban. And this law, as well as the laws that need to be adopted, will have a lot of problems in application itself, because 8% is at the level of urban and suburban VAT in transport, and 18% on inter-urban and inter-urban transport. We have a situation where certain cities now have, Belgrade 16 or I don't know exactly how many municipalities there are, certain cities have parts of their municipalities, and among them is Nis. If certain urban and suburban lines are connected to several municipalities, which is quite natural and normal. The line is not related to itself, but the question is that the passenger is transported from point A to point B. The question is how to meet 8% and 18%, respectively, the issue of the position to be established at local, or city level, and that the views are made possible not only by the central bus station in a particular place, but by the number of stops depending on the area of a municipality, on the number of inhabitants in a given settlement. So the passenger who came to the main bus station wouldn't have to, because some local self-government didn't prescribe a position, to use a cab to get back, and he could have, say, stopped somewhere on Ban's Hill, or in Žarkov, or anywhere. They are bound by this traffic law and this ministry through these amendments to the law, and local self-government, and bus stops, transporters, taxi drivers and goods transport carriers. See what segment of people that are covered by these changes and which regulates the direction of movement in one correct way. Intermediate lines do not belong to carriers. The transporters create them, the transporters maintain them. The lines belong to the state, to the ministry. They were designed to transfer passengers from a certain space to their interest. The growth and development of the traffic that followed was conditioned by buses, and it has always been an obligation in the intermediate transport of at least three. At one point we allowed the transporters to have older vehicles, so somewhere the age structure of the vehicle in Serbia was over 16 years old. In time, it was defined, so somewhere since 2002-2003, we have conditioned that transporters have vehicles, or buses and trucks with Euro Three engines. Today it is already the level of "euro four", so the international transport permit is conditioned. It is not just the law, international regulations and standards and the TIR that obliges us that some carriers can carry out transportation and by what buses. What can be maintained at the local level - is it related to taxi carriers, so we only limit them to the territory of one municipality - I would only like to make it easier for those who have criticised this attitude to send a message, who wants to do the job, to join with taxi carriers who are now organized in the form of businessmen, shareholders or independent companies, to find co-operatives and associates from another place. Why should I drive tourists, travellers from Belgrade in the direction of Novi Pazar, so I can return it again if it increases transport costs and I would be less competitive than if a co-operant from Belgrade were involved, so that the cost would be mutually beneficial, i.e. income for me and for my co-operative. This law states people to join together and have their own sense of why this law with these amendments is done. Maybe it's not good and maybe we should change the attitude in which the vehicle is shut down and taken away. If we have increased the criminal provisions in this transport due to the infringement of certain items listed, I do not think that it should be done by disfellowshipping and confiscation of the vehicle itself, because not only the carrier suffers, but the passengers will suffer more damage in that case. It is only enough that these penalties are only at this level and they are a message and a reminder to all carriers that those who wish to do fair and good will be protected. Above all, criminal measures are in the direction of the protection of good carriers, not in the sense of sanctioning. What I would like to ask you to know, the Chamber of Commerce of Uzice and the Chamber of Commerce of Kings, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, had almost one meeting, primarily with the intention of informing this ministry, inspectorate and local self-government in the Pazar area of Prepolje that the principle of cabotage is not respected by Montenegrin carriers. Let's go back a little bit, at the time of 2003 and 2004, when we offered the Montenegrins the opportunity to be part of Serbia, we allowed them to register the lines, the older carriers know it well, without any protection of domestic transport. So, the domestic lines we couldn't protect ourselves, we couldn't negotiate any lines registered in Montenegro's space towards Serbia. What does that mean? It means they registered lines that jump each previous line on domestic transport to Serbia, registered 15 minutes before the carrier leaves Serbia. You have a carrier at 12:00 from Novi Pazar to Belgrade, you have an 11:45 Montenegrin carrier passing through Novi Pazar and taking passengers. We tried to react with a local inspection, if anything else to make a record, to record, to forward it to the Republic Inspectorate, believe it was stopped at a local level, believing it was a conflict of interest. I have submitted the amendment, please, or give the Republic Inspector in the area of Raška, Pazara, Sjenica, Tutina, as it has in the Užica for the space of Prepolje, Preboja and Nova Varosha, or give authority to local traffic inspection so that they can work under the authority of the Republic inspectors. No harm done. There's no increase. Money can be transferred to local self-government for one part of their services, that the co-operation in all Serbia's territory is working, because it's impossible with 19 inspectors, as many as there are, of which perhaps 12 at this moment are all at the border crossings in Serbia, to work, to control what is done. The next step in this direction is not just the question of the lines of those who are now coming and can take the most modern buses purchased on the Lizing and those who, as someone said, busses or trucks from the Jurassic era to be tolerated in some way. The question is something else, how many at one point were transporters carrying 15, 20, and I don't know how many years they were in a position to be protected and privileged and those who are coming today and to register some new lines with the new bus. If they come with new buses, whether they're foreign investors or someone else, they have rules on registration. Could it be half an hour or after 15 minutes? Is it possible to get some kind of registration or to team up, to co-operate with an existing one? It is a far better offer and the law allows co-operatives, i.e. partnering with domestic carriers. It's a chance, not to condition or give the right to someone who only shows up on new buses to work. In the 1990s, Mr. Mrkonjic, you know you've been subsidizing to the fuel carriers to maintain the lines, because it was a patriotic duty, and today it's a patriotic duty to do so. You have parts in Serbia that you wish-do not want to drive to because there may be three, four, five houses in which there are no idea how many people. If we act that way, the five-six houses in Serbia will also reach Belgrade. Here's the question -- how many of you, your ministry, have the power to force local self-government to subsidize on certain lines at the bar? Will they be an integral part of the package, to be a good line, profitable compared to one that is less profitable? Will there be a circular current in which some carriers will benefit? Of course they should benefit, but local self-government and this ministry should see the importance and benefits. It's not a question of carriers, it's a question of people, passengers who need to stay and get their human, normal right to have information and transportation on time. Here's the question of youth. How long will it last in that space? What I just wanted to mention about the law, there's one item where, in certain timelines of line submission, or registration of new or old lines, bus stations are sometimes in a situation where they can't comply with the deadline themselves, such as if somewhere by the end of May we're obliged as carriers to deliver certified driving order, that the next day bus stations are obliged to point out that notice, it's simply impossible. So within three days, the carrier is required to take the transport. And that's impossible. So if by the end of May he raises his driving order, within three days he has to take a ride. Bus stations should be allowed ten days of time, space so they can highlight that driving order. That doesn't mean the passengers won't be informed in time. Everything's computerized. All information exists when a passenger comes to buy a ticket, he gets a notice that the first carrier is first on a list at the moment he needs a travel route. It is also necessary for bus stations to enter into contracts with carriers at the time of the annual line. At this point, according to law, bus stations are required to verify each year the same contract. That's unnecessary. Contracts need to be regulated, they last as long as the order of driving takes. If five, ten, fifteen years, that contract means as long as the order of the ride and there may be a contract, order, or deadline of termination of that contract should be at least over 60 days, because 30 days is something that is recorded for the reservation and also for the account, because about a month that account is made between cell service users and carriers and about 30 days to complete the process financially and that people may know where they are, and even as regards the reservation. For you, Mr. Grouchy, I only wanted one request. What's important for that space is your personal engagement, the roadway of the Market-Senica to the Duga Poljana. It's if someone in the movie sees it in the dungs and the patches, that's what it looks like. From Duga Poljana to Sjenica is one of the great works done. The part from Sjenica to Aljinovic, the part that "Pazarput" maintains, the part still, the part that has been done by Aljinovic, is there that Užice maintains and it is arranged. This section of the detour I hear doesn't have enough money, but it's done a lot so far. Land expropriation complete. I hope the citizens of New Market will know that they appreciate your efforts and your effect. I took this opportunity to take this message to my people from the Sandzak Democratic Party and to the voters to know that they appreciate your contribution and effect in that space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53336	21 minutes and 20 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53337	This is really nice and nice. Mr. Poturak, I thank you for your kind words, but my duty as Minister is to do all this. So, I haven't done anything that's out of my reach and authority, I've even done a little bit. I'll tell you right now, most of these suggestions you've been talking about we've already taken over. It's true that the ministry doesn't have that many inspectors, but as far as this Montenegro thing is concerned, there's my assistant sitting next to me, who immediately intervened at the scene, claiming that, in our knowledge, there is no more. But two inspectors down there work all the time, and I'm telling you that's not gonna happen anymore. I accept all other suggestions in general what you said. Yesterday I had Mr. Izet Ljajic, that's my school buddy, among other things, so you know that our relationship is very tight, we were just talking about that trip. As far as local self-government is concerned, it goes as it goes and it goes relatively well. I thank you for your concern and for speaking here. But as far as the New Market is concerned, it has to go this year. We're still negotiating with the Turks, we'll see, it's not my job to do it, it's done by Mrs. Kalanovic very successfully. I expect very soon in the next 15 days that we'll make a deal. So the reconstruction, the modernisation of the road from Novi Pazar to Sjenica this year will begin to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53338	The word is given by MP Milan Urosevic, who is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53339	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, members of the ministry, since I've been working for the last ten years at the Lasta Transport Company, I'd like to refer a little bit to the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Transport in Road Traffic and the problems faced by people involved in the transport of passengers in road traffic. In my opinion, the main problems that exist are the drastic rise in fuel prices in the last few months, indifference of local self-government and, above all, illegal carriers or as popularly referred to as "wild" carriers. As for the rise in fuel prices caused by the Middle Eastern crisis, these are some of the things that this government or this Assembly and we that are doing cannot have a special impact on. Also, the indifference of local self-government, where transport is carried out for them and where disorderly payments for carried out are the same consequence, I say, of the global economic crisis and the consequences of last year's reduced transfers to local self-government. One of the major problems facing traffic undertakings is illegal carriers. You during the day, during the ride, you can see a lot of small vans on which it says - own transport, transportation for their own needs, stop at registered stations and usually cut down legal carriers and buy them passengers. As a result, since this proposal gives greater authority to the inspection, I believe it is very good, it will affect the reduction of illegal carriers. In the voting day, first of all, I will vote in favour of the law to increase the authority of the inspection service. As far as the Ministry of Infrastructure itself is concerned, as I come from the Ub municipality, which has been mentioned more times today during this session than in the last twenty years, as long as there is parliamentary life in Serbia, I am pleased, I hope that my Muggles listen. Ub, what I must really say with pleasure, thanks to the Ministry and Minister Mrkonjic, began work on the Obrenovac-Ub road, which was one of the most popular roads in the Republic of Serbia. Also, as for the work on the move between Ub and Lykovec, these famous 12.6 kilometers, I often pass there, even walking to the works that are in Stublanica in the village above Ub, or in the direction of Paluva. The fact is that what Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic says, that the road will not take the ground, it is overpasses and bridges, must be bridged by local roads and railway lines. So I believe the Minister's word that these jobs are done. I'm not a builder, I'm an economist, even though I work in a traffic company. I must also point out that the bridge at TE "Nikola Tesla" in Obrenovac, which will connect Western Serbia with Donja Sremo, is very important for our region. Also, the key thing, along the highway, with all due respect to that corridor, is the way of Obrenovac-Ub for life. That's 25 kilometers from who knows what it's like. In the last ten years, I have broken the tire at least three times, and everyone who has come to Ub says that this is the scariest road in that part of Serbia. Finally, the works began a week ago, the Stravag works, and the deadline for completion is six months. I hope in six months we come to that opening ceremony. Also, I have to thank for two rural roads that are not important for most Serbian citizens and may not be important at this time, which are a three-mile road between the village of Gvozdenović and the village of Dupaj, which is some old military road, which has reduced the direction of these villages to the Valjevo municipality, as well as the Banjanin-Novaci road, which has shortened two arms of the Ubican municipality and done so to connect people with many things. I'm telling you that this law, which will certainly have a lot of amendments on the Assembly committee, I am prepared to correct my opinions on both the lowest price and some other things that have been given. Since for ten years I've been hanging out with friends, or people who have graduated from traffic school, that road route, their thinking that this lowest price is a good thing and that it's wanted by the Gran Association of Serbiatransport. That when someone says small carriers will be damaged, those small carriers are also associated with the Association of Serbiatransport. This is not some virtual association, but an association of all carriers working in Serbia. In voting day, I will vote for these proposed laws. I hope the competent ministry will hear about all amendments, whether they come from a position or from an opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-07-0.u53340	Five minutes used by the MPs' group. There are no more entries on the parliamentary lists for the word. Before concluding a joint principled single search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their rights under Article 96 want to speak. Rules of Procedure? That's what I'm asking before the conclusion. If not, I'm concluding a joint principle and a single search. I thank the participants at the session, the government's representative and the Ministry's representatives. This concludes work for today, 20 minutes before 18. 00 hours. The paper continues on Tuesday, April 12th, at 10:00 p.m., a united principle debate on the points that follow in the agenda. Thank you.
