ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58491	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by a 91-nation MP, and in order to determine the quorum required for work, the session of the National Assembly. Please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system to determine how many MPs are identified in the system and how many are in the hall. I find that by applying the electronic system, there are 93 MPs in the electronic system and that a number of MPs are also present in the hall, without identification in the electronic system. I remind all MPs on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session shall be held on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure, which says in its first position - a national MP has the right to ask for a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials and from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. The President-in-Office, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may also exercise the right under Article 1 at a session of the National Assembly orally, in a single address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament attending the sitting, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) National MP Svetlana Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58492	Thank you. A month ago, the results of the funding and co-financing contests for the current year were published on the site of the Ministry of Culture. Programmes and projects are funded from the budget appraisal of specialised services. This budget item draws great attention to MPs every year, as few people know what specialized services mean. In any case, for the Ministry of Culture specialized services are exactly programs and projects. In the culture ministry's budget, specialised services are the highest item, not counting employees' salaries. For 2011, this appraisal is 1.2 billion, and 1.6 billion for employees' salaries. In addition to the salaries of employees and programmes and projects, nothing else can be read from the culture budget, which would suggest which cultural policy is run by this government. My first question, Minister of Culture, Mr Predrag Markovic, reads - did any funding of culture in the first half of this year, until the commission completed their work, cease? What did the programs finance themselves from? Ten days ago, with a year late, the National Council for Culture was established. One of the tasks of the National Council is to propose cultural policy elements to the minister. The Minister, however, under the letter of the Law on Culture, has no obligation to respect what the Council advises him, but we are left with the hope that he will respect it. Since the Council has yet to be established, it is certain that it will not be able to fulfil this task in due course and propose some of the more possible models of cultural policy. Serbian politics will mean that Serbian culture will, for a long time, float on unpredictable programmes and projects. Who in advance can know what programs and projects will be proposed? It is quite possible that cultural institutions and scientific teams, since there is no single framework called cultural policy, do not propose projects for certain sectors. Sectors will remain uncovered in that case. Public interest in culture will not be protected. So my second question to the Minister of Culture is: what is the public interest in culture? What does the state have to finance, and what can be partially or completely left to the market? The funds from the opacity of the specialised service of the Commission for Programmes and Projects, and they are all we have, shall be allocated on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, criteria and criteria for the selection of projects in culture, Article 6. The criteria are this, quality, importance, innovation, diversity of cultural expressions, the ability of applicants to implement the project, mass use, decentralisation of culture, application of new technologies, networking, jubilee. The third question I want to ask the Minister of Culture is this. Can the criteria mentioned in one rule be considered cultural policy at all? I have another, last, practical question. If so, the funding from the appraisal of specialised services, which will be financed by programmes and projects in culture, has arrived at the expense of the Ministry of Culture, if so, that these funds have been spent by June, until the Commission for Programmes and Projects has completed their work. If they have not arrived, then Serbia's cultural policy is headed by Finance Minister and Prime Minister Cvetkovic, not by the minister and the culture ministry. The absence of cultural policy is just the more reason why this government should replace some new, more responsible towards its people and its interests, in which cultural identity certainly belongs. In advance, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58493	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their right under Article 286? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58494	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday one of the most shameful stages in the history of Serbia and the Serbian people was completed. Calm down these jokers, please. (President: I ask you to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and in order for me to attend the session, and I ask you to take care of how you address both the public and your fellow Members and without direct address. Please. ) This stage is called - co-operation with The Hague tribunal. So far in history, it has not been known that one country has handed over five of its own presidents or presidents from the ranks of its own people, that it has handed out a complete military and police summit, and you have done it in 11 years, and that is just amazing, that you have absolutely no limits that you will not cross for one purpose, and that is to join the EU. You will never enter that EU, because those like you do not need anyone, and the least you need is the EU. That's what you don't understand, a people who have no self-respect, who have no pride, have no future, and you have shown that Serbia has absolutely no future with you. You delivered the last Hague indictee and ended your career. I am sure that the citizens of Serbia will know how to evaluate you in the next election and that you will finally end up in a historic dump, where you belong and where you belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58495	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Just sign in. National MP Maria Bulgarcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58496	Thank you. Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask the Minister of Education a question. Namely, my particular question is when will the Ministry of Education finish the rule on the appearance of documents issued by the university? Namely, what it's about. For two years, it's been a pain in the ass about the release of Bologna diplomas. Students who have graduated in the last two years can't get their diplomas. We have an example at the Faculty of Medicine where students who have graduated can't get a degree for two years, and they've paid for making those diplomas at 15,000 dinars. It's a year's worth of inaccessible because they can't get a degree, and instead of a degree, they get convictions. Certificate of examinations, i.e. Trust pays between 1,000 and 5,000 dinars. The problem is that these beliefs are valid for a maximum of six months and after that they have to regain confidence in the university and further expose the cost. We have a situation where graduate students get money for diplomas that they can't get and get a six-month certificate for that. We're talking about missing radiology specialists, anesthesiology, surgery, and it takes ten years for us to form and train an expert to do our job. And then our youngsters are not allowed to specialize, volunteer, and at last they are not allowed to take their degree. Only the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Belgrade has introduced and divided Bologna's diplomas on its own. Because our educational authorities aren't able to complete the law for two years on the appearance of documents issued by the university. In fact, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering is a diploma, waiting for 600 students, and that's where we find the problem. When a graduate comes to the Employment Service, this new ETF diploma creates a problem, because there is a national qualification framework that does not recognise this diploma. The Ministry made it look, i.e. The 2005 rule on the appearance of these documents, but in the meantime, the law was changed and the changes were most extensive in that area of title. The National Council also adopted a nomenclature of occupation and now there is a Regulation that does not comply with today's nomenclature. We know that in America, every university brings itself to what a diploma, a form of a diploma would look like and what it would say. Only our students are not allowed to do so. I appeal to the Ministry of Education to stop dealing with irrelevant things, the type of color and form of diplomas that will make them look and start dealing with essential things and the essential problems that exist in our education.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58497	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58498	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I refer first of all to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, whether there is a political will to fight corruption and when he thinks that this government should come up with a draft anti-corruption strategy, which is our biggest problem right now. To make a short joke, Greece's tragedy rests on a bribe, and Serbia's on bribery and corruption, and we all know that the report that we have submitted to the EU has been assessed precisely in this segment as the most problematic, i.e. the most painfully assessed in that report by the Ministry of Health. Since the new health minister recently said he cannot cope alone with the time of corruption he found at the Ministry of Health, I have a question for him too. When does the health minister think he is proposing to the Assembly to amend the Law on Supplemental Work, which has just been assessed by the EU as one of the main sources of corruption in Serbian health? When he thinks that he is changing the general attitude towards complementary work that we have repeatedly referred to in this Parliament as a problem, as a health problem, because all reports and events show that the most affected are the most abuses of the administration of the most severe patients in Serbia. So, as a parliamentary group, we have repeatedly referred to affairs at the Ministry of Health, asking for answers, of course on behalf of the citizens who have suggested that we ask. We also have a question for the government and for the minister of justice: Why is the European Commission report, which contains an analysis of how the money of European donations and loans in this segment has been spent? If that report is hidden from the eyes of the Serbian public, then we certainly have reason to suspect that someone does not want to know what was going on in Serbian health and how all the help that came from the European Union, which was so transparently spoken of, how was it spent, and who would be responsible if it were misused? We are also against the fact that in the name of what is said that there will be no political appointments and appointed directors in the future, that in the future everything will go publicly, transparently to competitions, so why is the former health minister appointed as director outside of such a contest? Why was it not just one minister, a former minister, that was not the first example of how a competition could be held and how can these references be won against other reference colleagues I suppose would compete with? So these are the issues we are referring to in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58499	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandra Jankovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, for the principle of the search of the 1st item of the agenda, in addition to the representative of the motion of Milutin Mrkonjic, the Minister of Infrastructure and Energy, I have also called for the meetings of Miodrag Miljković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, Milos Banjac, Assistant Minister for Infrastructure and Energy, Aleksandra Potparević, from the Directorate of Civil Aviation, Vanja Škobić, from the Aviation Control Agency, Neda Mijatov-Bojanović, Head of the Department for Legal and Economic Relations in the Electricity and Energy Sector of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, Olga Antić-Michinović, Head of the Group for Technical Affairs in the Oil and Gas Sector of the Ministry of the Ministry of Energy and Energy and Energy, the Energy Group for Energy and Energy, the Energy Group for the Ministry of Energy and Energy. We continue our work and move on to – Proposal for a Law on Energy You have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of the parliamentary group, so that the parliamentary group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Ambassador group of Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the parliamentary group PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not done so, to file a statement with the order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, MP of the PUPS; MP Djordje Milicevic, MP of the SPS-JS; MP Arsen Djuric, MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica; MP Bojan Djuric, MP of the LDP; MP Mico Rogovic, MP of Serbia and MP Goran Mihajlovic, MP of the SRS. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. I suggest, since the minister is in the building and we expect him to come in, let's wait a few seconds. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 157(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I opened a principle search on the draft law and asked if the representative of Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Energy, wants a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58500	I'm sorry I'm late. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, as always, it is my honor today to be able to explain two laws before this highest home of the Republic of Serbia, the Energy Act, which I will now explain, and you have a new law to strike new foundations for the development of Serbian energy in the coming period. After a large number of public debates, especially those in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, and after very good criticisms from the Energy Community in Vienna, which is the reference body for the integration of Serbian energy into the EU, I can tell you that the new energy law is a turning point in the development of this important sector in our country. For the past three years, under the conductor's baton of my second Dr. Petar Skundric, a large team of domestic and foreign experts has worked on this legal act. I take advantage of the opportunity to thank them for their hard work and for my hard work. This law continues to harmonize energy legislation with EU directives, but we have also applied some new solutions that have not yet been fully applied to the EU and for which we have been commended by European experts. The European definition of Serbia is not only the path to EU membership, but we are trying to make it a path to a modern technological, orderly, energy-efficient green Serbia. The most important newspaper the new law adopts is the liberalisation of all segments of the Republic of Serbia's energy market. All branches of Serbian energy are under new law open to free investment and open competition under the rules of the competent regulator, i.e. Energy agencies. This law has greatly strengthened the role and importance of the Energy Agency, in line with trends in energy legislation in the world. The main objectives in the adoption of the new law, which we have managed, were: increasing the security of energy supply and energy for all citizens and the economy of the country; further development of the energy market through increasing competitiveness in all sectors of energy; simplifying the procedures for the realisation of energy investments; increasing energy efficiency and increasing the investment of renewable energy sources. We sought through this law to create an opportunity to reform and restructure the energy sector, in order for Serbia to get efficient companies that will be the momentum for the recovery of the entire economy. The oil and oil products market has been fully open since the beginning of this year, and the government no longer sets oil prices. In addition to a whole series of regulations adopted before the start of market liberalisation, the new law further regulates this area through security of supply, mandatory and operational reserves of oil and oil derivatives, oil transport arrangements and, most importantly, better quality and quality control of oil products in the Republic of Serbia. The gas market in the Republic of Serbia will be far better decorated than it is today, with clear game rules for all participants. One of the intentions we managed to implement through one part of the law is to increase the security of supply for all gas users in the event of any supply disturbances. The new gas warehouses will also open up opportunities for the gas trade, so we've arranged that part further. In the case of gas, it is difficult to talk about the free market due to objective restrictions resulting from the specificity of this energy. The most important paper adopted by the new law on gas trade is the right to access the third party, which is one of the obligations of European energy legislation that has not yet been implemented in all EU member states. We found an acceptable model to satisfy European partners, but also not to give up our national interests and trans-European South Stream projects, which are planned to be realised when it comes to supplying this energy. Renewable energy sources have represented and will be one of the priorities in the work of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy in the future. However, the strategic framework has proved to be too tight, and the existing Energy Act has become too tight to keep energy in Serbia under way with international developments. That is why the ministry has been working intensively for the past few years to bring energy legislation and our country's energy practice, which includes both energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, within the framework of international standards, or EU standards. I would like to remind that the signing and ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community in July 2006 between the EU and the Southeast European countries has become part of the EU's energy sector, and energy efficiency and renewable energy sources have just become one of the main elements of this Treaty. In this regard, the Ministry is actively working on implementing all activities of the energy community in those areas. As you know, this government has created a legal framework for investment in this sector. The high interest of investors, as well as a large number of energy permits, is sufficient proof of the quality of this legal framework. The new energy law will pay particular attention to this sector by guaranteeing investors greater legal certainty, including procedures for the realisation of these investments, will be much simpler. This is one of the most important laws of our European agenda. We are not passing this law because of Europe, but because of our citizens. Energy represents the flow of economic development and creates assumptions to improve the standards of our citizens. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy has launched a major investment cycle that will be a momentum for the recovery of the entire economy of the Republic of Serbia. A conscious macroeconomic situation in today's domestic economy has been launched by numerous tenders that should result in the construction of new energy facilities and the employment of domestic companies. It is important to point out that no new capital energy facility has been built in the Republic of Serbia in the last 20 years. The demand for energy in today's world is growing year after year, and these new plants need to provide enough clean energy for new investors, as well as for existing industrial entities. One of the most important guidelines in the construction of these capital energy facilities will be the employment of domestic companies. For all of this, I urge the MPs to discuss constructively and to support the new energy law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58501	I thank the ministers. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Mr. Milorad Buha? No, I don't. Bajram Omeragic? No, you can't now. You can when the committee's reporters are finished. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? First, MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, then Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58502	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I will read a quote in front of the strategy for the development of our electricity: "Social ability to make decisions concerning the future and essential to the development of the energy sector in general". Given the long life span of energy infrastructure and the impact it has on it, it can qualify as management, such as development, as sustainability and economic development in the future. It is useful to make large decisions with long-term consequences based on best available information with broad social consent. Detailed information on available infrastructure, production and energy consumption, environmental impacts, social impacts and other collected, processed and available public information should be used correctly. It would be good if there was an interested, qualified and informed public who could participate in the decision-making process. Finally, problems need to be presented to such a public, when all or many options are available and when public participation in this process is meaningful. There is also a need for social mechanisms to reach consensus and make decisions on clearly defined time. The "Europe 2020" or "Energy 2020" programme implies these circumstances, and the realization of these circumstances in Serbia is only in the infancy, i.e. it begins with this law. Mr Minister, this law provides for the protection of all forms of property, especially the legal position of economic operators that are in the system of performing certain economic activities and in protecting nature, in the protection of work and in their own protection. I remind all the MPs, as well as the citizens of Serbia, that all national property and natural resources can be used by legal and natural persons only under the conditions laid down by law. In particular, Article 84(2) shall apply. The Constitution prohibits the adoption of acts which would allow for the monopolies or uncontrollable dominant position of legal and natural persons with national assets and natural resources in their entrusted business. From 1990 to 26 April 2004, this established obligation was carried out by hydropower plants and other power plants according to municipalities that suffered the greatest damage by the loss of the processing of quality land, the loss of citizens' existence, through the loss of economic activity such as fishing, shipping, vegetables, traffic, agriculture, etc. The municipalities that are the most affected and which today suffer huge damages due to the exploitation of water, mineral raw materials, oil or natural gas, and for the purposes of the electricity electrosystems are Piroth, Surdulica, Kladova, Negotin, Majdanpek, Golubac, Velika Gradište, Požarevac, Smederevo, Grocka, Palilula, Sava Venac, Novi Becej, Zrenjanin, Zrećinci, Ruma, Vladimirci, Šabac, Novi Sad. The benefit for the use of goods of general interest in the production of electricity, oil and natural gas between 1990 and 2007 was paid in monthly amounts of 42,658 dinars in the municipality of Piroth, up to 3.439,467 dinars in the municipality of Kladovo. We remind the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia that we are allegedly in the process of decentralisation of Serbia and, in particular, in the process of even development, particularly of marginal municipalities. The municipalities I listed, as well as other non-remarks on whose territory are the largest natural and especially energy facilities in our country, are large taxpayers. Now, instead of any degree of development, they have become marginal, poor, and undeveloped municipalities. On the one hand, the most developed electrical facilities, on the other hand, undeveloped municipalities. These municipalities, as well as eastern Serbian border municipalities, have been lagging behind for several geopolitical and internal reasons for decades, with marked depopulation processes suggesting a serious threat in the future. So far, the capacities of eastern Serbia's municipalities, despite the fact that they contained our country's largest energy facilities, were unable to exploit potential raw materials, whether it was water, coal, oil, natural gas or something else. Instead, there has been the creation of large taxpayers who are state and public enterprises, while municipalities are allowed to live as they know and can. It will always depend on some power centre, without the basic leverage of development in its hands, the municipalities of Southeast Serbia have experienced a difficult demographic and consequently, an economic declination due to a lack of regional development policy, with a huge exodus and ageing population and eastern Serbia. The PUPS Group considers that the Ministry and the Government must, by means of the Law on Payment and Guidance of Compensation for the Use of goods of general interest in the production of electricity, oil and natural gas, i.e. rent, create a constitutional obligation to pay and compensation that would not be paid by the budgets of local self-government, but directly to local communities affected by this exploitation. In the era of Serbia's alleged decentralisation, a significant reduction in the resources of local self-government through a new set of laws on environmental protection and sustainable development, this law seems to create a difficult impact on the original resources of local self-government, plus hydropower plants, along with mines, along with electricity facilities. All this would lead to a significant deterioration in the status of local self-government units and an even more difficult balance sheet situation. Is it necessary to say that the lack of income that solves municipal and infrastructure problems in local and local communities would lead to dissatisfaction, unartuculated population reactions, and, moreover, further adverse consequences that would result in disrespect for these decisions? The environmental measures in the field of mining and electricity are partly regulated in the environmental law, and it does not mind that this law determines the continued need for protection, primarily during use, after closure of the fields of exploitation, mineral raw materials and according to their further use. The fact is that so far, the Republic of Serbia has failed to use exploitation in fields more recultivate and force users to bring them into the previous state for who knows what reasons. This obligation must not only be established, but finally applied to all users of electricity mineral raw materials. In view of the fact that mineral raw materials are consumer wealth and are not a renewable category, in our opinion, it is necessary for this law to determine the correct and regular approach to the removal of the consequences of the suspension of the exploitation of certain mineral raw materials and the non-renewable source. We support all the solutions given in this law on renewable energy. All amendments are submitted by different political groups. It should serve to make sure that the inevitable human resources are used properly. I cite the example, and should bear in mind that today the Gerdap Hydropower Plant produces about 7,154 gigabytes of electricity hours, which is still among the 100 most successful economic facilities in Europe, as well as that, based on rent from hydroelectric kilowatt hours to all municipalities that I have listed, and 36 of them, should be paid only about 300 million kilowatt hours, which is funny little compared to this big income. Thirty-six municipalities of Southeastern Serbia, as well as municipalities in other parts of Serbia that found important energy facilities in our country, supported an amendment that should regulate the rent issue. It significantly reflects the payment-silence situation of these marginal municipalities. It would be logical for this amendment to be supported by the Republic. Dear Minister, if you declare this amendment to the new law on energy, which is an announcement and thus return the rent to the poorest marginal municipalities of Serbia, the poorest citizens in the local communities, then you send a nice, clear and long-awaited message to correct the injustice and pay rent to those who have lost their country, without interest and without income. Their dignity and their right to existence is restored to a worthy man. Mr. Minister, I believe in you, we believe in your actions. We know that you are very responsible for implementing the planned and agreed and on behalf of citizens from 36 municipalities of eastern Serbia, we ask that the rent be regulated as the law promotes. On the other hand, we have submitted a large number of amendments to which we expect your solution. The amendments primarily have the task of technically improving certain solutions proposed under the law. We will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58503	MP Bajram Omeragic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58504	Dear Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament, I want to say today something that I have spoken several times in this House, since we are talking today about energy, about one key law. I would like to point out one thing that I think in the Sandzak region we could do one important thing in both energy and industrial and infrastructure terms, which is that the state pays attention and makes an effort, finance to expand the capacity of the Stavalj mine, given that as far as I'm aware, all the research done shows that this mine can expand capacity and that it can be one very important energy basis for the development of the entire Sandzak region. In this sense, the state must put priority on this kind of investment, and I was invited to this discussion and yesterday's statement by Mrs. Angela Merkel, who spoke in Germany these days about the need to intensify nuclear power plants in Germany and something that was also an EU policy, that according to thermal power plants, one position was taken, that it did not invest, exactly what happened in Japan, yesterday Mrs. Merkel said that Germany would again start investing in the development of the thermo power plant. I think most of the media transmitted it, even the printed media. I think it's a signal for us, too. The Stavalj mine is one chance. I urge the government of the Republic of Serbia to, as it did towards the mine and the Bor with 130 million, assess what it takes to do this capacity to increase there. It will also affect the industrialisation of this region and energy security and employment. When you put some investment somewhere, it's always a good message, which would say good carnivores for those other investors who are supposed to come here. That's why I urge the government to take Bora to an investment project in Stavalj, because it is justified, and this deserves this neighborhood, the citizens of Sjenica, Stavlja and Sandzak. This idea is being complemented by something that is normally business and the responsibility of Minister Mrkonjic, which is that the Tutin – Novi Pazar - Sjenica - Aljinovići road passes through Stavalj, which, as you know, has ratified a 30m-euro contract with Turkey. Even though it's been two years, we haven't even started to reconstruct that path today. He's going through Stavalj and he's directly connected to this story. I am taking the opportunity to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent minister of Mrkonjic that if we couldn't locate it so far, where the problem was finally, it was the NIP's competent ministry, then after someone else, the economy, then the infrastructure, so Serbia's roads, to locate the problem, to solve it. I also have a practical problem. Since you have all of Serbia, you have lots of roads, lots of bridges, lots of railways, I suggest you, that is also a practice everywhere in the world, if you have a minister without a portfolio, that this job of reconstruction is assigned to the Minister without portfolio, Sulejman Ugljanin, in the Government is engaged in this business, since he can devote a great deal of time to this investment. That would be very important, if we could get this job done, because it's actually the only investment that's headed towards Sandzak, and we can't just, for bureaucratic and other reasons, bring it to an end. This is the second year, so I urge you to just do it. Of course, this story applies to the new ministry, I often speak, although we are going towards investment, so I hope that after Bora, the Stavalj should be because the citizens of Sjenica and Savlja are the same citizens as the citizens of Bora and the states of Serbia have to think about the Sjenica, as well as about Bora, and other parts of Serbia, that simply those 20 and a few kilometers of railway from Raška to Novi Pazar, which is already, as I usually say, the train travels those 20 kilometers, given that Raška received the railroad 100 years ago, that train travels 100 years straight to Novi Pazar. I again ask Mr. Mrkonjic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to see the CIP, there is an idea, there is even an expropriation made almost 30 years ago, that we make it easier for them to transport by rail the cheapest transport, and that's where they would round up this story if they were to intensify these works, because it'd probably be part of the export and the plasma of coal going through that future railway station in Novi Pazar and make some story that the Sandzak citizens get the hope that they're equal with other parts of the Republic of Serbia, because it's a unique example that we don't have any investment, either foreign or domestic in the Sandzak region. We will support this bill as we supported the ratifications of that contract where we provided funds for Bor, where we provided responsibilities for other parts of Serbia. Sandzak citizens expect to go into one practical job, as we support investment in all parts of Serbia, to do so also towards Sandzak, in this case according to Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutin and other parts.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58505	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58506	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly, Mr. Minister, I have heard clearly that you are talking about the Energy Act. Ninety-five percent of what Mr. Omeragic is talking about has absolutely nothing to do with the Energy Act, possibly related to the Mining Act or to the Law on Government and Ministry. I've heard that you should transfer powers to Mr. Ugljanin, who doesn't have his own portfolio, but runs the Office for the development of underdeveloped areas. It is, more or less, the usual folklore that you in the congregation conduct your coalition agreements or talks in principle discussions on such important laws. It is hardly possible to expect another practice for the next year, until the election. I'd go back to the law. Two or three days in this House held a serious debate on this law on the Committee on Industry and yesterday at public hearing. I'd like to thank your co-workers at the Ministry who participated in this. It's a rare practice in Serbia. I think it is every time that we should commend the government's behaviour, that is, the ministry that is ready to meet this Parliament and that it is simply open to discuss all possible problems that follow the adoption and implementation of the law. There's a lot of trouble when it comes to this law. I'm not going to go into any excessively specific solutions, we'll talk about it in detail. Your ministry and you, as well as Mr. Skundric, who ran that part of the ministry that has now fallen into your vault, have huge problems in this area. You have practically one significant part of the economy or economy that you cannot directly control through the ministry, it is practically in the hands or public enterprises and state-owned enterprises on the one hand and on the other hand limited, normed by a whole series of international contracts that we have with this serious addiction that we have in the import and trade of energy, first of all, when it comes to natural gas, and then oil and derivatives and oil derivatives. That is why this law, regardless of any liberal orientation it has at its beginning, has failed to solve a whole series of these problems. That's what you say and you admit to a few places in an explanation. Some of the other laws that we have, above all, the Law on Public Enterprises and the Law on Public Procurement, even at the moment, do not allow for the full liberalisation of the market and something that would ultimately be an absolute interest of end-users, i.e. citizens. It seems to me that the law is constantly trying to lag between this one interest which is commonly referred to as state interest or public interest usually related to the government, the ministry and the public system of public enterprises. On the other hand, what comes as a norm or as an EU requirement which is primarily viewed as some technical obligation without excessive association with the benefits it would have had for our economy and citizens, on the third hand, that interest of citizens who are viewed in the light of these problems that I was talking about, that is, the need to preserve the existing position of public enterprises. In this principled presentation, I'm going to talk about the biggest problems in these areas. There is no doubt that the biggest problem of the energy sector at this time is natural gas or position and governance still public business "Srbigas". In this, less, technical reasoning of the law when you talk about how sometimes large systems are divided into a whole series of smaller companies or dependent companies within larger public enterprises. You are talking about the company "Srbiagas", which was formed by the division of old NIS, as a public company that was founded to carry out the activity of the transport of natural gas storage of natural gas, natural gas distribution, gas trade and gas trade to supply tariff customers. Although this remains a core part of the work, the basic activity of "Srbijagas" and you and I both know that "Srbijagas" has been much more concerned over the past few years with other issues or other actions, those for whom his current management, led by Mr. Bajatovic, believes he can make a single profit, given that he is making huge losses in his basic activity. You know that the current state of credit obligations of "Srbigas" is after the last guarantee we gave about 600 or over 600m euros a few days ago, that "Srbigas" has a huge accumulated loss and that for the past few years it has not formally shown it because it is made as a loss in business covered by a loan taken by "Srbigas" guaranteed by this assembly or the budget of the Republic of Serbia and which, even after the recognition of the director of "Srbijagas", as well as previous loans, will ultimately be paid by citizens of Serbia and Serbia's budget. "Srbigas" came into this situation to collect refinance loans on a massive or regular basis. It's an almost unexplainable situation, a vicious circle, where very often our citizens who are constantly in that system of allowed minus, covering the costs that the household has, and then with a loan to refinance it. Citizens, more or less, know there's no end to this problem. What applies to home budgets or private budgets in the end must also apply to "Srbigas" except that relations and sizes are incomparable. Today's debts and losses of "Serbiagas" are at the level the state received as the best offer for the majority package of "Telecoma Serbia" actions. So, the most valuable Serbian public company we have at this point, one company, a public company, which was founded to meet some other kind of need, the need of citizens, which works that way, has practically eaten everything that capital value, say, Telekom Srbija. It won't be that kind of thing is a product of a state of circumstances. At least in the last three years there have been so many wrong and political and economic decisions, when it comes to managing this company. It's important from the point of view of the state and from the aspect of your ministry. Finally, this law is partly, in fact, very comprehensively dealing with the issue of the gas market and all the participants on it, predicting some very important exceptions, which in the next few years should protect, practically, the existing situation of Serbiaagas. The problem with Serbiagas is that, in fact, although it is formally, it is not essentially, as I would say, a domestic or government enterprise. In all his actions, he depends on the so-called. A partner who has, and that's the Russian side. In several places, you also talk about the realisation of an energy agreement with Russia, that is, the construction of the Banatski Dvor underground warehouse. That's what we talked about here a few times. I hope that in these answers to the questions we ask you here, you will partially answer. You know that Serbiaagas, in the underground storage company Banatski Dvor, is in an almost impossible situation, that there is more than 99% of the ownership, i.e. assets entered, not monetary capital, that, on the other hand, the Russian side has, by this time, been, I think, 28,000 practically minimal founding capital invested through its company Gazprom-germania, a dependent society in Germany. On the other hand, when filling the warehouse, preparing the warehouse for what its main purpose is, our side, Serbiagas, the Serbian government, is absolutely dependent on that same partner in Banatski Dvor, which is Gazprom, or Gazprom-export, of which gas is ultimately purchased. Not to mention that in the board of the Banatski Dvor underground warehouse, the Russian side with such small capital has a majority in management. There are three members, unlike our side that only have two members. The problem of Jugorosgas, his position on the market, and the complete anomaly that exists we've talked about so many times. In the light of the law, it is said in a Sumar sentence – the work of transporting natural gas is carried out by Jugoros gas a.d. Belgrade. At these presentations, Mr Banjac represented virtually all companies located in the energy sector, including Jugorosgas, from which those who are a little less monitored could conclude that Jugorosgas is a domestic company. She, of course, isn't. It's mostly owned, especially under the majority operational control of the Russian side. With a strange property structure, it was the company that was Serbia's ninth success last year, which is wonderful, but it's not too hard, given what the company is doing. It practically only charges a fee, i.e. a commission of between 4% and 5% on all imports of natural gas to Serbia from the Russian Federation. The amount, i.e. the net profit, was around 20m euros last year, seems to me, with 10 or just a little more employees. When Mr. Bajatovic has the need every three months to terrorise the public with a new announcement of a requirement to collect natural gas, then the government usually acts as a savior and tells citizens there will be no gatherings, always after seven days in this parliament a new request for a loan guarantee to cover the price difference. In this whole galatias, Mr. Bajatovic very often speaks of that it is the ultimate price at which Serbiagas directly or through other market participants sells natural gas to customers, giving 15%-20% cheaper than the price at which it is actually imported. These 4%-5% -- stop that middleman at last, stop Jugorosgas. Bring to the end that police investigation that the president of your party and the Home Secretary spoke of two and a half years ago, so the citizens will somehow bear the burden more easily. Either to pay for more expensive gas, or to pay these credit rates for Bajatovic's holding company which he manages successfully and which he will manage and after the great idea of professionalisation and departisation of public enterprises, which he believes is very open and publicly opposed. We, I think, for two and a half or three years in this House have repeatedly insisted on a key issue – what is the import price of gas? It is clear that Serbiagas is making losses because it sells at a price lower than the one at which it buys. For us it is a question – what is the import price and why it is so much. Mr. Bajatovic finally admitted the price a few days ago. She's a little over $500 for 1,000 cubic metres of gas. Or 500 plus different kinds of other fees. I also assume these fees, i.e. fees to be paid to Jugorosgas for the quantity agreed or imported. The price remains significantly above the prices applicable to other Russian gas buyers in Europe. You can look at a few categories, since we're already used to the classic arguments on these issues. It's a significantly lower price in the surrounding countries. For some of them, you can say they have special political relations with Russia and that's why. For some, you can't say, as is the case with Lithuania, or as is the case with Ukraine, at one point, as is a partial case of Belarus that has increasingly complicated relations with Russia. Countries in the environment mostly pay a lower price for import gas than Serbia. Not much, by a few percent, but still a lower price. Not to talk about EU countries, above all, about Germany having specific relations with Russia. He's a partner in a whole series of energy projects. Their price is 30% or 40% lower than the price we pay. On this issue, you cannot say that these are market relations, since nothing in our relationship with Russia, both in political and economic relations, has been established on market grounds. I don't think there's any need to convince anyone here in particular, and especially after these few examples I've cited, which is how the Russian side, which we don't normally have anything against, we have the opposite of how our state policy and our official public economy behaves. So the way they participate in the market and in a whole series of sectors make some kind of extra profit. On the other hand, some experience from that co-operation with the Russian Federation is very positive. What happened at NIS, no matter how many objections we had in the way of privatising NIS, it is an excellent experience – how private capital and private management, a corporate approach can be one company that has made 100-150m euros in losses in recent years, to bring about 160m euros in profits in the past year. Unfortunately, this country and its citizens will not see much of that profit, through the distribution of that part of the dividend that belongs to us on the basis of that detained property of 21%-22% as it is today, because that money is mainly going to cover earlier losses, which is also an obligation under the Business Society Act, which also obliges that company. The NIS case, however, shows the difference when managed by top international experts, in this case Russian, and when managed by party-set directors of public enterprises, who do not have to be themselves a problem. The problem is when you come to manage such a large company, and the key reference to you is – I think, much less a high political position in a party you are also a member of, and much more what is called educated and trained in managing large systems. And with this new Bologna system, I haven't heard that there's a relevant school in this country that educates people for that kind of ability, that kind of skill. Not to exaggerate, from the way it survives in that place, you can hardly find any other director who will make so many losses and so many problems, and on the other hand, so powerful -- there seems to be some kind of science about large systems, or at least using holes in this big system of ours and surviving in the positions that are thus acquired. A few more things in this principle debate. I'm not gonna finish a few minutes before the deadline, I'm sorry about that, but what do we do? The law also introduces a category of operational reserves. First of all, in the case of oil derivatives, the authority mentions the other category called – mandatory legal reserves. I just want to clarify this situation and what the situation is. You know we have a problem after the sale, i.e. the loss of majority ownership in the former NIS stock company. The state of Serbia, from the aspect of EU rules at the moment, cannot guarantee mandatory reserves at any time for 90 days of average consumption. What is the situation about this, since this member of the law refers to the obligations of market participants to hold reserves that are sufficient for 15 days, it seems to me in the law, and that should be kept separate from mandatory legal reserves? Do you have my mom's oil and oil supply in 90 days? Do we have such reserves for natural gas, given that it is now July and these energy laws are usually adopted in the summer, but soon winter, the election winter in Serbia, and it is very important that we welcome it, in this sense of energy stability, or energy efficiency? Finally, at the very end of the law, I suppose why this is done, in order for the laws to be passed by both the Ministry of Finance and all others who evaluate it from that aspect of the cost, it is said that this law will not produce new costs in Serbia's budget. I'm not entirely sure about that, and I think we need to change our approach and talk about how real the cost is actually going to be. Public enterprises, when the full implementation of this law begins, especially when the implementation of this amendment begins, which we expect at the end of this and early next year, from the aspect of the introduction of new EU rules, will still cost. Public enterprises will not be able to survive in the current situation, they will not be able to use an open monopoly position, or at least for decades established the dominant position on the market, and that will ultimately cost the country. Their losses will have to be covered either by a direct grant from the budget or by giving loans for which the budget will again be guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. That's what we have to take care of. Yet in this country it matures that awareness, that citizens understand, that when the state pays something, they actually pay. That's what the beak's problem is. At the very end, you, when you were talking about large infrastructure facilities or facilities that will be built, were also talking about that these projects will be a great opportunity to engage the domestic industry, domestic operatives, as your fellow minister, not fellow engineer Oliver Dulic, who runs the construction sector, usually likes to say. I am not sure that this will be the case, first of all, because of the capacity our industry has in the area, and on the other hand because of the EU rules that bind us. I think we need to take care of that. We practically have until the end of this year or in the middle of next year to end all kinds of more favourable positions, preferences that we give to domestic enterprises, and that may be bad news for people who work in the domestic construction sector. I don't think it's such bad news, that this illusion of how much the sector can survive in these circumstances, should finally be rejected, but I think that it's good news for the citizens of this country, especially when we see how much the price differences are projected and ultimately paid for the different infrastructure facilities, and even those you deal with, if you listen to Mr. Omerovic's ambition, soon one part of the portfolio will be taken away from you, or without portfolios, or even such oxymorons are in Serbia and Serbia's politics, obviously possible and realistic, so I hope that this will not be done, or that this kind of purchase of coalition loyalty will not win, at least in these last few months and even on this law. Some details about a whole series of issues related to electricity generation, the use of renewable sources, I suppose we'll talk about further discussions, especially in the discussion in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58507	MP Arsen Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58508	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are today discussing a very important strategic law, the Energy Act. Before starting a debate on the legal proposal itself, I have to look at what was done in the energy sector between 2004 and 2008, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, when the DSS managed the energy sector. During this period, all legal institutional, strategic frameworks were created for the complete reform of the energy system. The Energy Act, the adopted Energy Development Strategy by 2015, the Strategy implementation programme, the National Gasification Action Plan. During that period, the Treaty establishing the Energy Community was signed, which has already become a member of the European Energy System in 2005. It was also established and started in that period as an independent, regulatory body dealing with the control of the application of regulations and rules in the field of energy, ensuring regular supply of end-users with energy, with their protection and ensuring a level playing field. Thus, a comprehensive and complete reform was implemented in the energy sector and conditions created for the development of energy, as a strategically important business branch. Since the formation of the new government in 2008, energy policy has been implemented by not respecting the energy development strategy until 2015 in a large number of cases and not respecting the implementation programme of the strategy. As one example of non-compliance with these documents and non-transparentity, the agreements and contracts signed with certain countries and foreign companies that are entitled to build mini-hydroelectric power plants in Serbia would not be disputed that these agreements are not given total, i.e. all the energy produced in these plants, and therefore all the bonuses that entail it, which are obtained through green certificates and privileged subsidised payments, so that Serbia as a signator of the Kyoto Agreement can be in trouble when it has to meet the conditions for the percentage participation of renewable energy in total consumption. It is particularly concerned that we are so easily handing over all the energy produced from renewable sources to foreign countries and companies without making a precise map of our own potential and defining our interests and opportunities to build this type of energy source. We think it is necessary to build complete documentation for all our potential hydropower plants as soon as possible, so that those who are most profitable start to build as soon as possible, but in their own direction, means that all other countries that are thinking responsibly about their future are doing so. So, as I said earlier in 2004, the Energy Act was adopted, which established legal frameworks for reforms in Serbian energy, and when the law was applied in practice, certain shortcomings were observed so that the Working Group was already formed in 2006 with the task of preparing and supplementing the Law to remove these shortcomings. The task force has done its job, made proposals and you have put most of their proposals and objections into this law. However, what is absolutely incomprehensible is that it took you three years to pass this law to the National Assembly for consideration. Also, the EU directives you are calling for in the light of this law were adopted in 2009 and since then have been full for two years, so that this slowness with which you bring such an important and important law is totally incomprehensible and unacceptable. But this is not only the case with this law, this government has been reacting late since its formation especially in terms of the economic crisis with all its measures that should prevent the negative effects and consequences of the crisis. These measures were mostly inadequate and delayed and there is no wonder that we are at the very bottom of the European scale, almost by all criteria. We have the lowest salaries in Europe which are less than one hundred euros in 2008; we have pensions that are less 40 euros than in 2008; in the last three years about 400,000 people have lost their jobs; we have a decline in industrial production, a drastic decline in living standards; excessive government debt for about four billion and these funds are mostly spent to cover the budget deficit and these are the results of the government's work over the past three years. But of course, I think citizens will be able to measure it and assess it in some of the next elections. I personally believe, and you have stated this in the light of the Law, because you have spoken more in your explanation of the 2004 law than this law, that the basis of this law is the 2004 Energy Act, with all the objections and suggestions proposed by the Working Group. We in that part have no special objections that is acceptable to us. However, there are many concepts and conditions in this text that are not precisely defined and cause certain provisions, and there is also a burden, i.e. extending some deadlines and making certain administrative procedures more complicated. Although it says in the light of the law that this law eliminates these procedures, they are complicated and extended by this law. In the next part of the discussion, I'll talk about it. Here we go in order – Article 13 lists energy activities and energy activities which are of general interest, and here it is proposed that electricity production is no longer considered to be of general interest. Such a proposal and such a decision make it clear that it is the fulfilment of the European Union directive and the harmonisation of our law with those directives. Personally, Serbia is not ready at this time to erase electricity from the list of activities of general interest, i.e. that we are not ready for that kind of competition and I think that when the law is passed, not only of this, but also of all other laws, we should primarily take care of the economic interests of our country, and only later should we meet certain conditions set before us. Furthermore, in article 18, you distinguish between the operator and the distribution system of electricity and natural gas, you distinguish between those operators that have less than 100,000 end users and those who have more. We have proposed an amendment to delete this member of the law, because we believe that the rules and conditions of this law should apply to all operators equally, regardless of the number of final customers, we have suggested that the provisions of Articles 15 and 17 of the law do not apply to those who have fewer than 100,000 customers, but we think that they should all compete and work under the same conditions, and we have this amendment that we have submitted and proposed. What's particularly interesting is the status of a privileged producer. In fact, in the current and current law, the upper limit for someone to be able to obtain the status of an authorised producer is that it has a power plant of up to 10 megawatts, you have proposed this law to raise that limit to 30 megawatts and we think it is not acceptable and it is inappropriate. We believe that the status of the privileged producer should be signed by small producers in order to encourage the construction of small hydropower plants, and not to stimulate producers that build medium size power plants, because if the proposed text of the law is accepted so that someone with a hydropower plant of up to 30 megawatts can be stimulated, it would significantly burden the financial state, i.e. end-users who are actually paying that advantageous price, and we would have to keep that producer for the next 12 years, at the advantage of prices, buying that electricity, and these are huge financial expenditures and we think that a hydropower plant of 30 megawatts is not a small hydropower plant, so that we have proposed to maintain the implementation of the existing law, i.e. that limit is ten megawatts. Now I would like to say something about these administrative procedures, which you have stated in your explanation that this law eliminates other barriers, obstacles, to make it easier in administrative terms for investors to obtain certain permits. I don't think that's absolutely true. I will now specify a number of concrete examples that these administrative procedures are complicated and that administrative deadlines are being extended. First of all, the deadline for issuing an energy permit under the applicable law, the deadline within which the Ministry was required to issue an energy licence, was 30 days, and you proposed that the deadline be 60 days. So, you doubled the Ministry's deadline in which he has an obligation to issue consent, even though we're all talking about the necessity that the state administration should be more efficient and work better. We find it inappropriate to double that deadline. We have proposed an amendment to keep the existing solution, i.e. we believe that the 30-day deadline is final, optimal and appropriate and that the Ministry may issue that energy permit within that time limit. Then, a request to issue and amend an energy permit, it is also a new obligation that has not existed so far. We have proposed, by amendment, that if there is a need to issue, or by applying and issuing an amendment to the energy permit, we have suggested that the investor has no obligation to pay an energy change fee, except for some administrative fees, which are used to cover the costs of the administration. When an energy license is issued, the investor pays a certain fee, which is percentageally determined in relation to the amount of the investment. We don't think it's appropriate if there's a change of energy permit to pay that fee again. It wasn't exactly defined by law, so we're the amendment responders, and we've defined it in a precise way. Also, one of the newspapers that complicates the administrative procedure is that an obligation is introduced to seek the consent of the Ministry of Energy Objects to one megawatt. That kind of obligation never existed before in law. So, over one megawatt, the Ministry issued an energy license, and up to one megawatt there was no obligation to seek any consent. You have stipulated in the law that now and up to one megawatt facilities must seek consent from the Ministry, and without any set deadline, or obligation by the Ministry within what time period that consent should be issued. There's a possibility that the Ministry won't issue that permit at all and stop the investor from investing. Your argument that this obligation is being introduced to control whether in an optimal way the capacities are being used technically and economically, simply does not stand. An investor who wants to invest huge money in the construction of hydrothermia will, for his own sake and his own interest, make the most of all the resources and capacities that exist. So we do not think it is necessary to complicate this procedure in this way, but we have proposed, by amendment, that this investor is obliged to propose to the Ministry for an examination of the project documentation and that within seven days, the Ministry must respond or be given an opinion or agreement on the basis of the documentation submitted. In short, I cited some of the examples on which we have objections. My colleagues will later, in the debate, talk more about it. Of course, we have submitted only 15 amendments, as a parliamentary group, which is indeed essential and correct amendments, all in order to correct the proposed text of the law. So I urge you to consider our amendments to the debate, in particular, and to accept them, in order to make the proposed text more quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58509	Thirteen minutes and 40 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's Messenger, Djordje Milicevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58510	I thank Mrs Comic, the honourable Minister Mrkonjic, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning I want to make it quite clear and completely accurate to say that the SPS-JS Parliament Club in the voting day will support the draft energy law. First of all, we believe that this legislative proposal continues to harmonise our legislation with EU legislation, which is of paramount importance. Some new solutions are being introduced. That's what we were talking about. A successful one continues, I would say, reforming the energy sector. We are convinced that this legislative proposal will improve the conditions for investment and thus strengthen the energy capacity in Serbia. The legislative proposal regulates relations in order to strengthen the energy sector and the energy market. It is true, as I have already said, that it is a fulfillment of the international obligation and, I would say, removes, above all, all the perceived shortcomings when it comes to the applicable law, which was adopted in 2004. We want to believe that we have heard more than once, and that more than once in public, when it comes to this legislative proposal, that it is actually a top regulatory framework for the development of energy in Serbia over the next ten years. What I also want to say and what I think is extremely important, and it seems to me that the opposition colleagues have also confirmed this and that a quality public debate has been held, that a debate is also being held within the Republic Parliament, within the Committee of Resolution in the Republic Parliament. What is also important is that, it seems to me, for a number of years, three years back was done on this legislative proposal by prominent experts from the country as well as abroad. What is it that this legislative proposal, in our opinion, delivers specifically from the point of view of citizens, from the point of view of the citizens of Serbia? We want to believe that these are, above all, lower prices, and then greater security, or stability in energy and energy supply. How do you get lower prices? Through the opening of the market in all energy sectors. When it comes to further increasing security in supply, we are convinced that this will be achieved by introducing mandatory and, among other things, there have been words, operational oil and fuel reserves, and by introducing control and better fuel quality in Serbia. This legislative proposal, in our opinion, will improve and regulate the gas market in Serbia and guarantee greater security for users. The most important newspaper when it comes to gas trade is the right to access the third and that is the obligation of European energy legislation. We believe that here we have one balance, or acceptable model that will satisfy, on the one hand, the interests of European partners, but also our national and state interests when it comes to projects that are planned to be realised when it comes to supplying this energy. So, essentially the most important newspaper, I will repeat once again, which is passed by this law is the liberalisation of all segments of Serbia's energy market. All branches of energy are open for investment and for an open competition. We think it's of paramount importance. Energy besides agriculture is certainly the most profitable branch and it is very important to take advantage of all its advantages, as is important for Serbia to get efficient companies in this area, which will in some ways be the basis for the recovery of Serbia's economy. To come to the realization of that goal, what is necessary in our view is to create mechanisms to eliminate those stakeholders, and the advantage will be to the profession, of course. By forming an energy agency as an independent regulatory body, I believe that we have taken a huge step forward and a huge step further towards achieving that goal. We also support and agree that renewable sources should be one of the priorities and that this sector deserves special attention. Investors, of course, need to be guaranteed greater legal certainty, and the procedures for the realization of investments must be much simpler. That's something we also expect from this bill. I think there is plenty of room in the legislative proposal for renewable energy sources, and the status of privileged producers is defined, as well as the granting of the temporary status of the privileged producer that should allow investors to provide credits. It's also of paramount importance. So another positive segment, or segment of this legal review that we consider extremely positive. A few days ago, I had a chance to hear some information in public, and I need to report it, and you can deny me if I'm wrong, but it seems to me that someone from the Resar Ministry has announced it. In fact, data have appeared in the public saying that in Serbia, annual energy consumption is 8.4 million tonnes of equivalent oil, that the most energy is consumed in agriculture and households – 40%, in industry, 32%, in transport 26%, from domestic production, as far as I think, provides 58% of energy, and imports of 42% of energy, the most liquid fuels – 55%, gas 29% and there is a tendency to increase inputs. It seems to me that it was some information that could be heard in public. I don't know how precise they are and how accurate they are, but I've said this for the simple reason that I think we need a law on more rational use of energy. I think it's something that's of paramount importance. So, the law we're talking about today, first in the discussion of the principle, and then in the debate in particular, I am convinced that it creates conditions and one basis for better regulation of energy efficiency, but it is necessary that this area is governed by a special law. Once again, I would like to say, the SPS – JS parliamentary club in the voting day will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58511	Seven minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58512	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, on behalf of the SNS, as we have said about certain provisions of the law that you, Mr. Minister, have defended in this House, as we have said about the Law on Justice, that reforms in the area of the judiciary are not according to European standards, as we have talked about the false liberalisation of the price of oil derivatives on the market of the Republic of Serbia, I would also say that the SNS believes that this law will not do any good. After all, in the last seven years we have, here, already two laws will be passed in the field of energy and these laws have not prevented the greatest corruption of all areas in the field of energy. We are witnessing only works of various problems, affairs and all that the media in the previous period managed to extract and present to the public. Given the situation, in the first part, I will refer to the fact, as you know that this is a very complex problem and a major area, to analyse the energy sector in Serbia, and when we talk about it, I cannot talk about the moment at which you are the minister alone, Mr. Minister, but the energy sector must be analysed for at least 10 years. In the second part of the debate, I'll talk about the amendments, they're about 40, which the SNS has filed. We suggest that, given the finding of the law that I have said on behalf of the party, you look at the amendments seriously. The law is not in line with the European directives, I decidently say. We have tried amendments to regulate this area and I ask you not to just stay on the words, as you can say – submit the amendments and we will accept. There has been a situation here that we are seriously approaching a particular problem in your area, to submit amendments without any amendments to the SNS being accepted. It is not the aim of the SNS to accept amendments, the aim is to regulate this sector in quality and in accordance with European directives. Mr. Minister, I know the fact that you are neither guilty nor obliged now in the Assembly, given the redistribution that was very quickly in the government and that you have received this sector, and that the second sector that belonged to your predecessor has gone to Mr. Dulic. You must agree, Mr. Minister, that if you and your colleague Dulic were supermen, you would too much be represented by these areas that you represent and that you lead from the important resources for the lives of citizens and for the normal functioning of the Republic of Serbia. But it's not your fault. You said you were preparing this law and doing someone else. Please make sure that the law that has this number of pages through the amendments of all parliamentary groups is taken seriously, that finally this area, which, the media show, is the most corrupt in the last decade, and also in the area of the previous years, is regulated and that it ends. In the next part of the exposure, I will tell you through certain examples what it is from the basic remarks of the SNS through my energy team. If you have followed the public for a long time, we have been presenting the problems that this sector has been gathering and that need to be resolved in the proposal, i.e. in the new energy law. All must agree with the fact that Serbia lacks enough energy, that imports of energy are constantly growing year after year in Serbia. And what Serbia has unfortunately is crumbling. As one of the last facts is that Serbia has very not energy efficiency. On top of that, Serbia has become a bottleneck of development in this part of Europe in the energy sector. I'm going to show you through the next part of the exposure and I'm going to prove it through the arguments, through everything that's been foreseen in this territory since 1974 and from the fact that we don't have an investment in the electricity sector for 27 years. Should we pass laws to attract investors? You must agree, Mr. Minister, that this law, namely that this area is regulated by good areas and stopped corruption, will employ a very large number of workers and, most importantly, every citizen, every family, will become the leader in this area, as it should have become. Since 1974, projects have been on paper and nothing has been done in Serbia's energy field for 27 years. You have an additional situation that no mine, no mining field in Serbia has been opened for 10 years. Mr. Minister, we're coming into a situation where, starting this year, we're going to start importing coal for thermal power plants, no matter what strategy was made in this area. You have to agree with the finding that it's a really illogical fact, let's say that one minister is in charge of the mines, until, say, the ore or coal in a specific case doesn't get to the thermal power plant, and then you take over that resistor. Not that it's not effective, not that there's no such example in the world of this division of the ministry, it's at least, I apologize for the expression, it's nebulous. I have another fact to make, and when I deal with the areas of the energy sector, I won't be much longer in the gas area of the energy sector because that's what colleagues from the other parliamentary group are working on. I'm just gonna take some of the trouble out of that area. We have a fact that in the area of renewable energy sources, so-called green energy, your previous ministry associates made a precedent, that part of the area was given to a foreign small company, a credit-laden company, and that in the sector it is likely that Serbia will import so-called from Italy in the coming period. Green electricity. When we talk about green electricity, then citizens must know that it is higher prices of electricity than they are currently paying and that this price is up to 13 - 14 euro cents per kilowatt hour. I can't help but mention the situation that the secretary of state at the ministry you took over had a private company that was involved in the construction and production of electricity and that it directly got a job with wind generators. I can't help but mention the situation that we have seven ministers in the year 2000. Perhaps you remember the situation that a minister in charge of energy couldn't even read the electricity bill. So much for how much lately, no matter what authority this area is concerned, the area that has been filled with the greatest affairs and the greatest corruption. What has been the result of the work of the seven ministers in this area in the past decade? You have to agree with the fact that the past decade has been a really big waste of time. In this energy sector over the past decade, more than 20 billion euros have entered Serbia, in the area of credit, donations. I have already noted that in the past 27 years, there has been no investment facility in Serbia in the area of energy. Serbia spends over three billion euros annually on imports of energy. With all that I have put forward and the fact that it really exists, Serbia has violated the reputation of the energy country in this area, as the energy treaty has taken over from the countries of Southeast Europe. A part of these obligations was respected by Serbia, but with a very long delay, we lost the role of leaders in the production of energy in the entire area, even in the legislative area. What does the Serbian energy sector look like for a decade or almost 11 years from change? We're an energy poor country, as I said in the opening part of the sentence. The highest concentrations of coal are in Kosovo and Metohija, but everyone knows that since 1999 we have not been able to control these mines. By the way, these pools are, by volume and location and capacity, the second in Europe and the fifth in the world. Coal reserves currently available in Kolubara and Kostolcu are only for the next 40 years. The more serious thing is that in this area, laws are actually passed that will, in a transparent sense, be at least sustainable. The gas reserves are up to 10%, and the oil is up to 20%, for a non-serious country very small. Given the fact alone, and not some other fact, Serbia is in line with non-secured energy countries. In situations of shortage and crisis, it is not possible to rely on the needs of 10 to 20%. Unfortunately, in some critical and crisis situations, we personally convinced ourselves of this as a people and everything that worked at that moment. There is only one gas flow in Serbia, and it will likely be the only one for many years. There is no investment in this area, for over 20 years there is no serious investment in this sector. What did we do by privatising Serbia? We've reduced the maneuvering space for the use of domestic sites and oil and gas. Serbia is an energy inefficient country because it spends three to five times more energy compared to the production unit and the European average. Now I'm going to give you indicators that contribute to the reduction of domestic production and growth of energy imports. Between 2010 and 2015, according to the strategy adopted and adopted for this period, final energy consumption is increasing by 32%, energy imports are growing to 42% in this period, primary energy production is growing by only 14%. You see where deficits and problems are created, and these years too, will burden the Serbian economy, the state and the citizens, given the lack of energy and that part of the difference between production and energy consumption. In the area of imports of energy during this period, from 2004 to 2015, coal imports grow by 38%, oil by 20%, gas by 80%, which is understandable in terms of the gasification process, but it is not understandable if you are making a little more progress in one area, that all areas go so drastically, and electricity by 133.3%. What's the most dramatic thing about this situation? Serbia's energy import dependence, the Serbian state is currently 45%. It's an alarming situation and it's a situation to put a finger on our forehead and see what we do in the area of energy investment. We will arrive in 2020 when statistics show these figures related to imports and production, and this deficit that arises in all this will grow by more than 20%. Taking into account statistics, we must agree with the fact that the price of electricity since 2000 has increased to over 600%, regardless of the claim by all the authorities present at the political scene of Serbia. It is not just an emergency, but also a situation for consumers to finance the ineffectiveness and loss of this part of the energy sector. It must also be said that the price of gas for Serbian living standards is also very high and unrealistic. When we talk about the price of energy, I do not want to remind you that energy prices depend not only on market offers, depending on the system of the built network, depending on numerous parameters, not only on the situation that is present on the price on the world and European market. So when the price is formed, a number of parameters go into all of this. Unfortunately, we also saw various discounts in the field of electricity. I almost don't know a Serbian family who can use those benefits, as predicted by the previous law, except for a family that doesn't turn on a single lightbulb. It's the only thing that can happen in a household with no one in it. The prices of derivatives, after Greece, Belgium and certain countries, and currently at the level of German prices, are indeed too high for the Serbian standard. Mr. Minister, given the state of the refinery that the Russian firm found, the question is, what was done in that area? We're not familiar with it enough, someone should be reporting it in the congregation. The issue is the state of Serbian refineries, and what is the quality of oil derivatives, i.e. motor fuels? Speaking of companies, what are Serbian energy companies? State of the country. Our public enterprises were examples of French enterprises during a certain period. What have become Serbian businesses? The biggest losers, not to mention the situation that we recently brought to this parliament a 200m-euro loan that went into one area, not to mention the situation during which the president of the Management Board of the Oil Industry of Serbia was the current agriculture minister in 2008 and in the situation that the NIS then had losses of over 850m euros. I hear it's not like that anymore these days. Not to mention the situation that for the NIS area, the Serbian state then subsidised about 300m euros. When you take all these indicators and put them on paper numbers, they say we could have made two more refineries in this area. When we take indicators of what the arguments and the facts are, that the thermopower plant "Colubara - Block B", installed capacity two times, 350 megawatts, 700 megawatts, and when we multiply it by 200 days a year to do these capacities 24 hours a day with a power of 700 megawatts, or the capacity of 200 megawatts, it is said that in this area over 200m euros was lost annually. I note that the estimated investment value of this thermal power plant was 700m euros. The facility was supposed to be operational in 2007. Since 2007. By 2011, Mr. Minister, we lost our investment facility. If he had been released in 2007, he would have paid himself by now. It was worth taking credit for, not worth taking credit for "Staklara", for "Agroziv", for nine companies that bought "Srbigas". Instead of our engineers walking around in the fields making calculations, we do business, I apologize for the expression, the chickens and some other things. I can't help but mention the Gerdap-3 hydropower plant for which the documentation was done in 1974, an idea project. All that we didn't do in that area and that the construction of that investment was three billion euros, annual production of 7.6 billion kilowatt hours. With Gerdap – 3, they would now be the leader in the region, not only the leader in electricity production, but the leader in the power reserves. You probably know, Mr. Minister, you were active in your work and at that time, you know what the intentions and capabilities of the Gerdap-3 hydropower plant were. What she was supposed to do at night and that during the largest electricity shortages in the region we have practically reserves for the construction of the Djerdap-3 hydropower plant and in that area about 800 million megawatts at any time free on the market and when you multiply it by these 20 years it is seen that the investment would be paid off in a few years and what would happen in that period. That is why I am also speaking in the further part of the exposure by giving concrete examples of what we believe is evident to change in this sector in order to change the lives of Serbian citizens and to employ unemployed citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58513	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? National MP Goran Mihajlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58514	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members of the people, citizens of Serbia, presently there is a bill on energy that represents one of the fundamental laws, as it treats the area of production, distribution and regulation of energy and energy markets in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the rights and duties of state authorities, the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia, as well as supervision of the implementation of the law itself. It has long been known that in most countries the standard of living and the economic development of a country depends precisely on the wealth of energy and the degree of order of this market, so it can be said that the case is the same with us and that this law should therefore be one of the most important laws in the area of legislation. At first glance, if we look at it, it would be said that this is not a new law, because it is the same under this name that was brought in 2004. However, if you look around at this new law, you will see that it is not only by quantity but also contains many new provisions and new items, yet it can be said that it is a new law, regardless of what the old term energy law will continue to exist in the coming years. To inform Serbian citizens, this version of the bill contains a total of 208 members and contains provisions of the current Law on Electricity, Construction and Inspection of steam boilers that will cease to exist in the event of adoption of this law. If we take everything into account, we can still say that it is a new law, and when you carry out a summer review of the titles of the head and of some concepts and expressions, you will see that 65 terms and terms are given in the law, new terms that and how they can confuse and bring into doubt the entities to which this law applies. The first impression after reading this law is that someone was in a hurry with the adoption of this law, likely to do so before the republican elections next year in order to maintain certain privileges that existed in the old law on the one hand, and on the other hand, that is to say by who knows which way we have reached the bosses from Brussels and Washington and to implement the provisions that are important to them in this law. Due to the fact that the bill was drawn up in haste and confusion, we have invested a total of 43 amendments, the SRS parliamentary group, which we wanted to improve the text of the law. We don't want to talk about these amendments this time, but normally on the day when there's a debate in particular. To get a clearer idea of what this law is talking about, I'll tell you that it has a total of 21 heads within which we can get some four large content - logical continents to single out. The first overall would be the introductory part – Chapter I, where basic provisions and explanations of terms and terms used in the law were given. Further comes the general part, these would be the chapters of the II-VII, where the energy policy, role and power of the ministry in the field of energy, the authority of the Energy Agency, the methodology of forming service prices, etc. The main part of the law would be the chapters of VIII-XVII, these four types of energy and energy – electricity, gas, oil and oil derivatives and heat energy. The final part of the law contains the heads of XXXI. It refers to the Agency for Energy Efficiency, the inspection of the criminal provision and the transitional and final provisions. It has happened again, Mr. Minister, for who knows which time one of these important laws is passed by emergency procedure. It was usually a practice that the ministers sitting in your seat said we were doing all this to gain EU candidate status, and you went one step further in this explanation, so you said it was done to speed up candidate status. This must be some new concept in the terminology of joining the EU, because the acceleration of the acquisition of me so far has not been known, but, well, that was one of your arguments. Secondly, it is argued that it is in a hurry to adopt the law to adopt it before 1 September 2011, when some cross-section for the European Commission's opinion on meeting the conditions for obtaining candidacy will be done. It is probably your main culprit that MPs of the National Assembly in July are not on vacations, fishing, on the mountain, but must sit in assembly benches and adopt your advanced European laws. But it's not the first time, what to do. You claim that the adoption of this law will bring a number of positive effects for Serbian citizens, among other things, the introduction of order on the market, the protection of customers, bringing new investors, the emergence of new businesses and the improvement of the energy market in general. Furthermore, your ministry claims no additional funds will be spent on the Serbian budget for the adoption and implementation of this law. Perhaps that is true, but I would ask you this time – what about the fees that Serbian citizens will have to pay for what you called an incentive for production and energy from renewable sources? Because, as you said, by 2020, it is recommended that at least 20% of energy in the field of electricity, heating and cooling be from these renewable green sources, and Serbian citizens will have to pay, according to the law, a special fee on this renewable energy. What would that tax be for? Well, to replace measuring and regulation devices, connections, installations and the like. I would now ask you another question – as far as I know, no one in Serbia produces this measuring and regulatory equipment that needs to be installed, then does this mean that it is the interest of some domestic import lobby, that someone intended on the side of Serbia to place electricians, protocameras and various other devices on the market? I would remind you that everything has already been seen in Serbia. All we can think of is an affair with vaccines, when the Ministry of Health, for the sake of protection of citizens' health, spent a great deal of taxpayers' money on vaccines. We also have an actual example. There's a change of license plate on the cars. These are the ones that look like Europeans, so they look nice, but it's nice for the citizens of Serbia when they hit them in the pocket with four, five thousand fees for new plates, then they'll think a little bit about whether the old Serbian or new Europeans, which you think are more modern. Otherwise, of the four types of energy and energy processed in this bill, electricity is the most treated, which is kind of understandable, because the electricity market is the most orderly, and there is also the longest tradition of its use in Serbia. For the sake of illustration, I will remind Serbian citizens that the first power plant in Serbia was made in 1884 and supplied with electricity by the Military Technical Institute in Kragujevac. At that time the current was very expensive, it was a top-of-the-line luxury, and the centrals only worked since sunset, so in the nights they produced electricity, the first day-round power plant with a 20-hour period of work was introduced to us in 1933. It might be interesting to say that the percentage of household electricity in Serbia has moved historically. In 1939, before the outbreak of World War II, less than 10% of households had electricity introduced, 55.8% of households in Serbia were electrified in 1971, 82.8%, and we reached the world level in 1981 when 95.8% of Serbian households had electricity. It is believed that when less than 5% of unelectricated households remain, a global level has been reached. The information works, electricity is produced in heat and hydropower plants in Serbia, with approximately twice as much production in heat as in hydropower plants. Now, something else I'd like to draw attention to, it's one potential danger that can happen on the energy market. Experience has shown us that on the energy market there have been many different machinations. We're all fresh on this Colubary affair, and we've had the opportunity to follow in the press, on television, in the means of informing details, not to convince. On this occasion, I would refer a little bit more to another affair in the field of energy, which was a few years ago, which is so-called. "Energy Mafia" affair. Some say it was a robbery of the century in Serbia, because in a perfiduous way it damaged Serbia's budget and citizens for about half a billion dollars. Illustrations work, for this money Serbia could make about 1,000 kindergartens or 700 schools. Remember, the main actors of the affair were Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic and in early 2004 in this House, thanks to the SRS MPs, the evidence of this affair and the insistence of our MPs began to discuss how EPS Serbia has concluded harmful contracts for the purchase of electricity with the company "EFT", owned by Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. It was all at the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, when many ministers from the government were involved, as well as people from the top of parties from the then government. The SRS has been pressured to examine the circumstances of this purchase of electricity. That board counted six members. Party representatives three from the ruling, three opposition, and Aleksandar Vukic, then the SRS ambassador, was elected as chairman of the board. The committee reviewed extensive documentation, listened to a total of 28 witnesses, and eventually, when all the material was elaborated, elaborated, joined the vote, and the result of the vote was three to three, that means that the board could not make a decision, so the vote should be repeated. What happened next? In the next vote that was held on 12 May, I have here a record from the polling committee session, Aleksandar Vukic took advantage of the fact that a member of the Rajcic board had a death case that day in the family and couldn't come and then of the five members the result of the vote was three to two in favour of the energy mafia, which means that three members of the board felt there was no abuse, two that it was. Why am I telling you this? For the reason that this affair has been vehemently covered up. Who was in charge of the cover-up of the "energy Mafia" affair? Alexander Wolfie. After that, a man from the SNS high peak came to Zemun in the "Greater Serbia" newsroom and presented concrete and inconclusive evidence that Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic received 200,000 euros for this. That's what "Greater Serbia" number 3321 said since August 2009. So that I don't bother with the details of the viewers right now, I point them to this number, but what's the point? I didn't bring this up by accident, but, Mr. Minister, in this law, you don't have, as far as I could see, any protection mechanisms that could prevent any further machinations in the energy sector. The circumstances here were in the field of electricity. It can also be in the gas, oil and other energy sectors, so it is one of the very, very large problems of the SRS parliamentary group that there are no mechanisms to protect against such illicit actions. The criminal provisions, which you have stated in chapter 20, are ridiculous, because sometimes the daily earnings of these participants of the energy mafia may be more than your intended criminal provisions. What else is in favor of the machinery in the energy sector? This is what you predicted - the obligation to separate energy entities in a technical, legal and accounting perspective. This means that the large and successful systems, which have worked well, are being broken down into some smaller continents, so, for example, in the electricity transmission sector, which has been carried out by the Serbia Power Network so far, will be independent, and a new vertically organised company of Serbia's Elektroprivreda, which will produce, distribute and trade in electricity. Now I would ask why you do this when practice shows that the EPS of Serbia has functioned extremely well? Remember only NATO bombings in 1999. Today they bomb the power lines, the trafo stations, the next day it was immediately trained. So this is evidence from direct practice that this system has functioned extremely well and that there is no reason to have the same break-in on some tiny continents. It's the same for you in the oil industry. So, it stopped that there was a JP NIS company, and three new ones were founded – NIS a.d., "Serbiagas" Novi Sad and "Trans-naphtha" Panchevo. This is an example when a successful continent is divided into some smaller continents. In the end, I'd like to make another suggestion. Nowhere here in the Bill of Law has I seen from Minister Mrkonjic mentioning the energy sector at KIM. You know that Kosovo is extremely rich in energy potential. It is estimated to have 13.5 billion euros in lignite reserves. It's the World Bank's data and it's the fifth known reserve in the world. There's lead and zinc, there's boxers. As we know, since 1999, since the establishment of temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo and Kosovo's electricity corporation, Serbia unfortunately has no jurisdiction over the electricity and energy of Kosovo. I would use the remaining minute to voice a protest on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group over the shameful arrest of Goran Hadzic, which was carried out yesterday because, gentlemen from the ruling coalition, this cannot be done in Europe, by adopting pro-European laws and delivering people who light Serbia's face during the war. According to your logic, in 1918 the Duke of Živojin Mišic and Steph Stevanović was to be delivered because at that time someone was working as you are now likely to have the same thing happened to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58515	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report to use their right under Article 286 in this part of the session? No, I don't. ) We move to a part of the session in which the right to the word is given by the MPs on application for the word. I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing with the order of MPs submitted parliamentary groups: LDP, SRS, ZES, New Serbia, DSS and Advanced Serbia. The first registered speaker is MP Ivan Andric, and after that, MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58516	I expected you to at least have some desire to respond to the various objections of the heads or representatives of the parliamentary groups, and so we have arranged that we are then talking to you accordingly about the potential objections that you would have according to what the representatives of Serbia have told you here, but what to do, is the situation and I do not blame you. First of all, I would say one part of which is very important and which is political and concerning the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia because I think that the debate on this law, the way it is adopted and the history of this law in general is a full picture of our European integration process. With a banal review of the reasons for the adoption of this law, which you can find immediately at the beginning of the reasoning, you will see that the necessity for the adoption of this law has entered into by the signing of the Agreement on Accession of the so-called accession of Serbia. the energy community. What's the problem is that this contract was signed in 2005, ratified in 2006, the compliance commitments that were taken were supposed to last 12 months, and today is 2011. Summer break's coming up fast. My question to the ruling majority or to the ruling majority, since we are talking here about at least three ruling majority in this period, is what was so complicated and what does it say about our country that we cannot adopt for five or six years a law that everyone will all claim is systemic, for a law that will play an important role in our future and for a law that applies to the lives of citizens of this country to the greatest extent possible? What is so complicated and what is the problem with this country that for five years it cannot arrange a single area for which everyone who deals with politics or any public business will tell you that it is one of the most important state functions? It's the organization of this country's energy system. As far as I know, there's been a draft of this law since 2007. It wasn't adopted then because one government fell and another government came. It's 2011 today and we've entered the last months of this government. We get the law Friday morning after an urgent procedure with the ambition of an incredible political one, which is to adopt it before the summer break, or next week. Then we find ourselves in a situation where the enthusiasm of members of the Committee on Industry allows for some public debate to be held yesterday in parliament by the law already arrived, that the people of the Ministry have already presented it on the Committee, that the deadlines for amendments are ongoing and that we have some public debate the day before the adoption of the law which was organised so that it has shown high interest on the one hand, but on the other hand it has also shown the senselessness of such a procedure. We have no other idea than to realize that it is some simulation of the democratic process. So if there's a version of the law for so long, it even exists on the Ministry's website, so it's not a secret. Then we can say that it is solely irresponsibility and laziness of the ruling coalition that prevented this law from being adopted in a normal way, without an emergency procedure, with a broad public debate. More meetings were held by representatives of the ministry with representatives of the European Commission, various representatives of the European Union, with representatives of the energy community, than they had with MPs or representatives of citizens. Because it's not their job. The question behind this must stand, as well as a clear political idea -- how does this country want to join the European Union? By imposing force, first and the Committee on European Integration, then the Committee on Industry, then this Parliament, without any ambition to participate in the decision-making and discussion of this law. Look at the hall, it's a good picture of the general interest of the MPs for work. On the other hand, this law is a necessary condition. A condition is also necessary for obtaining candidate status, a condition is necessary for the citizens of this country, a condition is necessary for the energy economy that awaits it, is expected, it is asked - what is the problem of its adoption, what are the things that this law will change and whether there is some secret behind it, which in fact cannot be passed this law. The last few months, I suppose, have been the subject of changes in the Law on the Ministry and the Law on Government, so while now, as the ministry of the former has now passed into another portfolio, it still needed to be organised in a new way. I see, among other things, that Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is not allowed to participate in a quality way in this debate. Even he himself said in the beginning, that this law is a good result of the work of the previous minister. So even the minister changed before the law even came to debate in the congregation. So I simply think that this is an obligation today to say, because this country will get candidate status for membership in the European Union. This will open up the possibility, and I hope the reality, that this country begins negotiations on joining the European Union. If this country or its ruling majority, not to extend that responsibility or irresponsibility to the whole country now, will thus join the accession negotiations in the countries to the European Union. The two results are very clear, these negotiations will be non-transparent. So no one will know what the deal is. Two, the results of these negotiations will be the worst possible for citizens in this country. If this type of seriousness is not established in the institutions in this country, I am simply not sure that this is the best possible path for Serbia. If we continue to have a dilemma about whether the standards and systems that the European Union is carrying with it and how to regulate are good for this country, and if we apply them in such a way as to devise them, then it is simply that way that it becomes extremely discriminatory, and its results will certainly not be the best possible. So, if you want the law that has been made under some European directives to be adopted in a European way, then its own purpose becomes very discriminatory. Unfortunately, much worse than that is that we don't think today, nor can we get an answer to this question. But much worse than that, it's even hard to recognize a partner for this kind of debate in our country. So, I will repeat once again, an emergency procedure, a law in front of MPs less than five days. Meanwhile, a public debate was to be organised by the Committee on Industry, a public hearing. But since the law has already come where the issues of changing this content are very discriminatory. Since it's about professional law, the only kind of thing, to say, the only thing that makes this process easier is, since it's about professional law, which is still in that ministry unlike many sitting people who are sufficiently professional and responsible and who were in the mood to discuss these remarks. In other laws that are adopted at high speed in this House, such preparedness often does not exist. That is why, as counterpart Djuric said, it is our obligation to also point to something that we think is good, in addition to this observation. The question of the energy situation is a very crucial issue for us, because this bill that has been made, in our opinion, this anti-constitutional and illegal agreement with the government of the Russian Federation on the oil industry and in general about the whole package that was at the time, as well as all devising and evidence of these consequences for the citizens of this country, we get a new one every week. Mr. Djuric mentioned that the profit of the NIS for the past year was around 170m euros, a third price. Believe me, you would find thousands of investors in the world who would be willing to make such an investment in which the money would return in three years or less. The only reason the Republic of Serbia has not achieved a better result is the wrong decision to go without any public tender and to a direct settlement. On the other hand, it should be realistic and say that this law strongly paints some kind of framework for the energy situation in this country. In many parts, it depends on other laws that are quite disastrous. I'll give you an example. It relies on the Law on Planning and Construction, to the greatest extent, in the work concerning renewable energy sources. The law on planning and building, as currently exists, is a law against foreign investment, against domestic investment, it is a law against planning and construction. That's what we've been warning you from the very beginning. This country has not been exploited, not even to a minimum, not one resource of renewable energy. This non-use is not due to the work of either the Ministry of Energy or the lack of interest. This untappedness is due exclusively to the fact that you can rather declare yourself insane and irresponsible than to enter into that adventure called getting permission to perform any of this work. I can tell you that for wind energy issues you need over 70, 80, 90 different documents, for the issue of production and energy from water sources, you need about 70 documents, for solar energy no one knows that anymore. Instead of helping me in a certain way and changing our attitude towards it, having some vision that we want to achieve, we decided that solar energy is built by two state-owned companies -- one insurance company, and the other I know which, EPS, taking pictures in front of some field in Zlatibor, if I'm not wrong and trying to wake up some kind of vision in all of us, how we should imagine a solar field. The only reason for that is the election that's getting closer. There's no reason to use a renewable source here. We shouldn't be too smart. Maybe we did, maybe we didn't. It is enough to look around us, to the region, to the countries we want to see, above all, by economic development and to look at what systems they have and how certain problems are solved. And if we can apply some of these systems, and if we can't, then we need to think seriously again – is the path to Europe what is the essential wish of the current ruling coalition. It cannot go to the EU, because a state-owned company or a state-owned insurance company or a state-owned power company will have a joint political project, regardless of who is in those places, regardless of which party it belongs. That's not the point. It's just that it's about that view of the world. It's not Europe, very simple. There is no Serbian or pandemic in Europe, the head of which is someone who looks like Mr. Bajatovic. Europe doesn't look like that. If you say you want to go to Europe, it means that these things can't happen. It cannot be hidden from the citizens of one country the price at which you buy gas, which warms most or many of the country's citizens. It's not Europe. The price of gas paid by citizens, which increases because failed state-owned enterprises are unable to settle their debts, is not Europe. The price at which you pay for heating per square target, not for the amount of energy you spend, is not a European country. These are things that are the EU. These directives make much more sense than to list the reasons of the law. We will either try to understand what the reason for these directives is and what is the real effect that is being achieved and then we too will try to achieve that effect. On the other hand, translate them and force them through congregation committees and plenary debates, it really doesn't make any political sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58517	The People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58518	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, preparing a speech concerning this law, one of the most important and important laws for every citizen of this country. Today in Serbia, state authorities play a double role in energy rights. They're state officials. Besides, they're rights holders. As rightholders, they have the goods of general interest and as rightholders carry out the activities of general interest, but also the obligation to control the use of goods of general interest and to control the exercise of activity of general interest. The state and state authorities have authorised citizens to represent their interests and to appear in the role of the rightholder and the obligation to have goods and rights of general interest. At the same time, the state through its authorities is controlling the use of its assets, as more than 400 entities carrying out various energy activities are registered in Serbia today. Power buyers are tariff and qualified customers. Tariff buyers are those buyers who have no right to choose from whom to buy energy and are supplied with regulated market energy under the professional tariff system. Qualified buyers are energy dealers. They can take energy for their needs and sell to the last consumer. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this law is to adopt a process of reforming the energy sector, with the aim of ensuring the preconditions for the development and efficiency of all entities carrying out energy activity in line with the principles of business, as well as the harmonisation of this law with EU principles. Now I'm going to tell you how energy behaves and how the EU behaves today. The EU is one of the world's largest energy consumers. Of all 27 Member States, total energy consumption exceeds 1800 million tonnes of equivalent oil, while total final energy consumption amounts to slightly less than 1200 million tonnes. Domestic energy production in the EU fell after 2004 and fell to about 850 million equivalent oil, which includes nuclear energy with 28%, solid fuels, gas, oil and renewable energy sources. In the 27 EU Member States, 2006 and 2007, total imports of energy amounted to about a thousand million tonnes of equivalent oil. The EU's dependence has exceeded 50%, representing 53% of the total energy needs. Oil dominates over 60%, followed by other coal and gas energies. Imports of electricity are reduced to below 1%. Watch out, below 1% of electricity imports. The largest oil supplier in the EU is Russia, Kazakhstan and Norway, and in the part of the coals Russia, USA, JAR and Australia. While the gas part is dominated by Russia, Norway and Algeria. Russia is the most important energy partner in the EU. It provides about 33% of import oil and 42% of gas imports and 26% of oil imports. Ladies and gentlemen, as a man of the economy, I remember a time when this troubled land was bombed by these great friends of ours. Then they wouldn't turn the taps for gas or oil or any energy imported, so we could survive or produce in the economy, but that's what Russia's mother did. That's why I'm asking you, do we still have to turn to the EU or Russia? That's why I read this to you so you can see how much the EU depends on Russia today. What interests me today, and probably Serbian citizens, ladies and gentlemen, we know that electricity prices of gas, water, municipal, health and education services affect citizens' standards most drastically. If prices were granted to ensure the profitability of the business of suppliers of these products and services, the vast majority of our citizens would not be able to pay for it. Unfortunately, our standard is such that these prices also have a social character. Apparently, you want to destroy or eliminate the monopoly of power supplies and other energy sources. Apparently, we want to have other suppliers, i.e. liberalise other producers towards consumers, when implementing all energy sources. to the customers. Is that not the way you want to sell this energy system? I think that all of what you've done to certain laws so far, you modulate it so you can justify it later, so that you can alienate it or that it's no longer owned by the state. You know very well that according to the draft energy law instead of the government, Serbia has been the gas height since the first day of determines the Energy Agency. The paper is that small producers and households will choose suppliers from 2015. When I tell the supplier, then I think of the one who will bring these energies to Serbia and what it says is whether a Serbian citizen is capable of paying for it. In the end, I'll say what you're probably all interested in, and also, probably my colleague Goran said in the debate, what is the situation with energy and energy supplier from Kosovo and Metohija when we know that these days the biggest lobbyist is Hillary Clinton who will, through the World Bank, that the thermal power plant Obilić A is leveled with the ground and that on its foundations a new thermal power plant is raised. We know well that all those who are from NATO, or should say from the Ummnik, have ruled Kosovo so far, they have actually lobbyed, as well as how the biggest corruption was supposed to be done in the thermal power plants. I believe, and I will conclude by this law, you once again want to fool the citizens of Serbia, you want to deceive the public, because you want this energy system, thermal power plants, hydropower plants, all the carriers of these entities, to sell them. However, I think, Mr. Minister, that you belong to a political party that thinks about the social structure of citizens and that that must not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58519	Eight minutes and 30 seconds, used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. After that, the People's Messenger, Momchilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58520	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened very carefully to all discussions of distinguished colleagues and, of course, I expected more talk about the very text of the Law that is in front of this high house and for which is the assessment of MEPs, because we have followed the public debate, we have followed what the professional public says, all the interested subjects and the analysis of the bill itself, I think it is a good law that will, in any case, strategically regulate this area of energy stability in our country. Of course, it is also important for this harmonisation with EU rules that a good solution is that it is a commitment, and no one has mentioned both autonomous provinces and units of local self-government to plan their energy needs, which is a total novelty compared to the previous law, that Serbia will certainly be a more energy-regulated state after the law is passed. This law also regulates the freedom of investment, a competition, to increase competitiveness, that regardless of the complex procedure, because it cannot be done hydrocentrally without numerous research and geological and ecological, and without numerous permits and consent of different services. However, the procedure for obtaining permits has been simplified, but of course, because of the very problem it treats in some way is complicated, but it is simpler than the previous solutions. What we estimate is also the quality of this law, it's a ban on the subsidisation of entities dealing with the same activity. Don't forget that we have recently had large subsidies and large overflows of resources from one entity that deals with energy activity in another to cover various, different bad business moves. Of course it will increase the security of gas delivery. It's a good ban on discriminatory behavior and control of that kind. Predicting new gas storage needs. Serbia's energy sector seems to be finally completely normably in line with the energy sector, or the EU-based normative, and we do not think there are any major energy crises there. What is also good, and has been the subject of some criticism, is the obligation to separate energy entities and separate their business into accounting, technical, legal, regulatory bodies, to regulate energy activities, etc. The very Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia is indeed a good body that we trust to carry out all the tasks within our jurisdiction precisely in order to ensure our country's energy stability. It is good that the state has signed a series of EU directives in this direction and that, the effects of this EU directive and the component of this law are. What was particularly interesting to me, since I am also in love with the preservation of life and human environments, environmentals, etc., is the promotion of renewable energy sources. I think it is necessary for the public to say that renewable energy sources are in nature, that after their use, i.e. conversion into energy, sources are being completely or partially restored, and that they are primarily in wind energy. A free source. In the energy of the sun, bioenergy, biofuels, biofuels, biofuels, water energy, means in the broadest sense hydroenergy, geothermal energy, or energy from the depths of our country and the energy of the ocean. Non-renewable energy sources that continue to work, not only in our country, but also in EU countries, are the most common sources of energy, which we do not have, nuclear power plants, because there is not much to talk about Chernobyl or the recent nuclear disaster in Japan and their consequences, as well as the aspirations of EU countries, even those like France, where 40% of energy is obtained from nuclear power plants to gradually go to other energy sources and nuclear power plants stop working one after another, then coal, oil, and natural gas. Energy and Ecology, I mentioned Chernobyl, I mentioned Japan. Of course, renewable energy sources are that they will contribute to the process of reducing global warming and warming, to regulate the field of the global darkening process. It is interesting to note that, despite the share of renewable resources in the EU countries in 2005 in the overall energy potential of these countries was about eight and a half percent and that they plan to make that share 20% in 2020, that Serbia is above the European average, and below, for example, Norway, which has close to 40% of the share of these renewable energy sources in the country's energy potential. It seems to us, according to the data I have obtained, precisely because of the existence of large hydropower plants and because biomass, and above all, wood is widely used, primarily in households for heating, but of course also in the wood industry for other purposes. Someone here mentioned solar energy and, of course, it's the energy of the sun used to heat and produce electricity and about the fact that it's expensive production of that kind of energy and that some kind of monopoly for the production of solar energy is going to have a state. Given the reasons that have been presented, it is likely so, but of course we will follow what trends are in the world and in the EU countries. We believe that in terms of the economic strength of the country and this form of energy will be increasingly used. As for renewable energy sources from biomass, it should be said that this form of energy is derived from plants, animals, urban waste. Urban waste is now called often and sleeping giants, because it will be the most important renewable energy source in the future, at least they are estimates and what the budgets are, and the gains are multiple and they do not need to be spent much on words. I have already mentioned that the most famous way to use biomass is to use wood mass for heating in houses, that Serbia uses about 25% of renewable energy, which I say is a higher average than the average in EU countries. The goal is to increase that percentage to 32% by 2012, but whether or not we'll get there, we'll see. It is also well mentioned that the Republic of Serbia is precisely because of all the advantages that the country has through the use of renewable energy sources, that it has adopted the legal regulatory area of renewable energy sources, so the Energy Act is passed, so the strategy for the development of energy RS by 2015, the Energy Development Strategy for Serbia from 2007 to 2012, then the Regulation on the acquisition of the status of the privileged electricity producer with criteria, the Regulation on incentive measures for the production of electricity by using many energy sources and combined production of electricity and heat and the model of contracts for the purchase of electricity from privileged producers. Since almost again, it seems to me that in the Republic of Serbia somewhere there are about 30 mini power plants, first of all, for the production of electricity, of course, and there are several projects, first of all on the Ibar River, to build several mini power plants. I will really commend this kind of initiative and just mention some of the advantages of using hydropower plants, i.e. mini power plants, as renewable energy sources. Compared to the large hydroelectric power plants, we don't have a flood of wide areas, then a violation of the local ecological system. Land irrigation, as well as water supply for surrounding settlements, pond construction and flood protection can be ensured. Investment investments are being reduced to electrify remote settlements from the general electricity network, and electricity from such rural settlements contributes to improving their development. They're exploited at very small material costs and the working century is long. There are hydropower plants that work, of course, with regular remonts and over 80 years. It seems to us that Serbia has completely disregarded environmental protection in the process of industrialising the country, socialist industrialisation. As a consequence of socialist industrialization and small concerns about environmental protection, we today have aero pollution in our cities which are, of course, among the largest in Europe. It is certain that what we have seen, for example, in the Netherlands there are parallels to those of their traditional windmills, and in addition, modern windmills that do not only convert wind energy into mechanical energy, but also electricity, which is also the case in Austria and many EU countries. I believe that in the future, we will also see in our spaces these modern windmills, which will turn free wind energy into electricity and help to improve our country's energy system, and will not completely disrupt the environment, which is a concern that we all need to care more about and pay more attention to the future. Once again, I'm going to remind you of the fact that we haven't heard any sharp criticism about the legal text itself today. Of course, there was an affair called "Coluber," and it has nothing to do with this law. The SPO itself said that our "Coluber", not only in Lazarevec, is our "Coluber" in all of Serbia. All efforts by all state authorities to and from the Kolubara affair, as a robbery of the century, and all other affairs to get a legal framework and that those who produced them get the fines they deserve. The MPs of the SPO will support it. Also, this legislative proposal has nothing to do with the arrest of Goran Hadzic and all other topics that the distinguished colleagues mentioned today. Therefore, I would ask that, in the rest of the discussion, all respected colleagues really pay more attention to the very text of the law that I have said is good and therefore the SPO MPs will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58521	It was used 13 minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger, Momcilo Duvnjak, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58522	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the ministry, we today have a draft energy law on the agenda. I ask the immediate question, will the citizens benefit from this law? The answer is no. Is it gonna blow the electricity? He won't. Will it blow the gas? He won't. Is it gonna blow the gas and power connections? He won't. If you have stated, and the minister has also said that we will have a better market than this law, security of delivery, new warehouses, consumer protection and new investors, then citizens should hope that these energies, too, will come under the roof. That's for sure he won't. The benefits of this law, for citizens to know, will only have agencies and those involved in the trade of energy. You've informed these agencies and given them great authority. According to the bill, it is freely said that future agencies will determine the price of energy, and according to this bill, I, the man who deals with craftsmanship, heating, can freely say that you can also shut down the ministry, because it will come to the attention of one driver, minister and secretary. According to the bill here, you're introducing some operators. We have a distribution system operator, a transmission system operator, a warehouse operator and a transport operator. I'm asking you now how so far everything's worked without these operators? This is just to hire a certain number of people and that's your party and, one thing's for sure, prepare for privatisation. I would like to translate into Serbian citizens, the word operator in our Serbian means that it is the person who will be in charge of operating the pockets of Serbian citizens. That's for sure. We are the only country in the world where we have a classic robbery of citizens through electricity, natural gas and everything else. In what country does the world have a blue, green and red tariff? Explain to me, please. Somebody get out, since you're all professional and you're all up for the profession, explain this to the citizens. That's what citizens are interested in. They're not interested in operators or your agencies. Here, I'll look back at natural gas in this law. Under the bill, it is as if Serbian citizens have not used this gas so far. So far, we, gentlemen of the ministry, have known that gas, and used it, is transporting pipelines, that we have compression stations, that we have measuring-regulatory stations and that we have a warehouse. But, gentlemen, the price of gas does not correspond to the citizens of Serbia. In order to pass laws like this, you must, first of all, arrange for citizens to have affordable energy prices and that they can endure with their salaries. How can we have a price of gas 31.9 dinars, plus 8% VAT? It's a total of 35 dinars. I'm going to translate the citizens to know, a hundred square meters of gas heating is 12 to 14 thousand dinars, because it depends on what they are in that period of days, whether the temperature is at a greater minus or not. The price of gas, one thing's for sure, can't go higher than 25 to 27 dinars, that's for sure. We know that the state imports 50% of gas, that privates import 20, and the rest is 30% of their own stock. How is it possible, I ask you, that the price of gas is ten times higher than the price of gas in Russia, the land from which we import gas? Here's why I'm asking. This applies to regular gas consumers for heating, they have a cheaper price ten times as much as we do. So let's just say that it's a real thing, that it's five times, so let's say we agree, but 10 times, which is too much, it's too much. First, you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, who run this government of the Republic of Serbia, deceived the citizens and said this - join the heating, this is the cheapest power to use right now. The citizens then took loans and borrowed. I'll tell you how. Usually, one citizen needed at least 3,000 euros to be in debt, at least speaking, I speak for a 100-metre-square house, which had introduced central heating, to make a boiler, a connection, a project, a fee, and it cost 3,000 euros. After three or four years of use and less gas prices were rising. Now the citizens are returning to solid fuel again, because the difference is double. As possible, you have to explain to the citizens that 100 meters of square heating on the city heat costs 5,800 on the monthly level and on the gas of 12,000? That's real math. That's what the citizens are interested in. The ruling coalition speaker said that this is what we're talking about, here, I'm talking about what interests the citizens and what you should do in the interest of the citizens. The minister isn't here, he's a practical man, he's always answering parliamentary questions, I think he's the only one who can, will and must take care of, and you ministry gentlemen, this gas connection situation. We have different in Serbia, from the city to the city, conditions for a voice connection. You see, gentlemen, the price of the gas connection, I know, you're going to tell me that there are distributors, but it's impossible that it's from 420 to 1,260 euros the price of the gas connection. So we have projects and we have a plan. In every city, from Vrsac to Kruševec, from which I come, the price is different and your people behave differently on the ground. That's amazing. Do you believe that they have provided, convinced people who join the gas, that the yellow tape, you know the yellow one, the gas is dangerous, the DS has a yellow color because it's dangerous for Serbian citizens, convinced them to bring in the gas, bring in the yellow box, and not put in the measuring instrument. Why am I telling you this? You need to intervene on this. Then they convince the citizens and tell them that they are the only ones who can do the rest of what they have to do - the delivery of gas boilers, projects, taxes, land and everything else, and then the prices, believe it or not, of their 800 to 1,600 euros more expensive. We in Serbia have amazing gas concerns. People dig up, don't return to their original condition or asphalt or, if it was a grassy surface, and it stays three, four years on the ground like that. For my colleagues' sake, I won't do it anymore, but we will when there are amendments proposed by the SRS. I'm telling you one more time, to fix this whole thing with gas and energy, to fix this situation with us in Serbia, then you can pass these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58523	Eight minutes and 50 seconds from the used time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Nikola Savic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are today considering another law of the so-called European agendas, the energy law, which we are passing by emergency procedure on our urgent and accelerated European pathway. It seems that Europe cares about us joining it as soon as possible, given that they know our proverbial slowness, and we know their desire to help us as much as possible. To this end, this same Europe and the EU amputated one part of our country, in order to enter this narrow European door as easily and as quickly as possible. To that end, we saw yesterday, and the last Hague indictee was delivered and the regime boasts that a point was placed on The Hague, but I am afraid it will be, unfortunately, a point on Serbia. But let's get back to the law. We are still considering one serious law, and we all have to agree that this is an extremely serious law, one of the most serious laws, because energy is a fundamental area today in the world and all the conflicts and all the wars that have been fought in the past, we can say for almost 100 years, they're being driven by energy. What is happening in Libya is not because of Moamer El Gaddafi and his regime or the introduction of human rights and democracy, but rather because of the struggle, primarily for the energy of Libya, or for Libyan oil. It is obvious that the legislator and the people who wrote the law have put a lot of work into it. The law itself is large, it has 28 members, it covers many areas, but it is still not proof that it is of quality. That's what you can see when you walk a little bit through members of the law. Now I'm going to name some basics, say the faults of this law. For example, members of the energy balance law mention all kinds of energy, but when it comes to, say, the heat balance of energy, then there are many ambiguities and many unspeakable things. However, heat energy is a special kind of energy, it is not energy created by itself, but it is practically created, produced and produced from other kinds of energy. It's clear to all of us, and it would have to be more precise in the law. Furthermore, there are still some things that are not clear in the law itself. For example, that is how Article 13 refers to natural gas supply, and it is said that natural gas supply is not an activity of general interest. The same article says that some other things that are related to natural gas, such as its transport, its storage, its distribution, are of general interest. I really don't understand why supply is not a matter of general interest. Furthermore, the law speaks of the separation of operators, the system and the separation of accounts. When the law is looked at more seriously and more precisely, it can be concluded that this is the whole law's idea, that the former EPS system is tiny, to separate all these parameters. If that's the idea in the law, of course, I don't support that idea, then why don't you separate the electricity bills and the TV subscription? Electricity and TV subscription have nothing in common, but insist on it, although Serbian citizens do not have the means to pay for neither electricity nor a subscription to RTS, which no one is watching anyway. Furthermore, as with the rest of your laws, here the license is one of the things that is placed at the heart of the law itself. The said license comes from passing an expert exam, in front of a commission educated by the minister himself. It's nothing controversial. However, the law does not specify on the basis of which criteria the commission is formed and which is what the minister does when selecting the members of the said license commission. This can only be a seemingly naive thing, and in fact it's a key thing, because a license depends on a lot of things, and in order to get to a license, it has to be passed through a professional examination in front of the board members. The members of the license committee should be narrowly professional people, people of technical profession, but we have a situation that often the Energy Minister doesn't have to be a man of technical profession, it can be a man from another area, so the question is how competent he is and how able to choose the very best people of the technical profession, from an area he doesn't know himself? That would be about the same as if an engineer were authorized or if he had the task of making the choice of the best lawyers. I think that would be funny. I also want to say something about the cost of joining the distribution energy system. That's what my colleague Duvnjak was talking about. The law states that the level of these costs is determined by the operator, based on the methodology for determining the costs incurred by the Agency. If you look at this methodology, although it is poorly available, you need to look for a lot to get to it, but without these things and without its closer analysis, you can immediately see, it is noticeable that the energy connections are extremely expensive and that they are unwarrantedly high. This is best seen, for example, when a man owns a house with two or more floors and wants to, as popularly said in the people, separate the electricity on the floors, or install another or two electricians, then you can see what these costs are. In order for you to install an electric number on one floor of your family's house today, you have to pay the amount from 1,500 to 2,000 euros. The operator himself has almost no costs or minimum costs to provide you with such a thing. What are the operator's costs in that case? His expenses are to send his commission to your house, to bring a filling, to flatten your circuitry, and to fill out that paperwork so that your count can be introduced into the power supply system. Furthermore, I'm not talking about the methodology for calculating electricity. There's almost no one can handle it. We know that, always with our electricity bills, there's this item -- the hired power, but it's not clear to anyone alive to the end what it is, because science doesn't know the power involved, and in fact it's one thing, through which it's possible to abuse, and we've had the opportunity to make sure that in the period behind us, this abuse was present and noticeable. The law also provides for a free choice of suppliers since 2015, although I doubt that this thing will come to life, but even to live, it is a waste, the law foresees this possibility, when the prices of the connection are high and when they will not fall. We have an example from other activities. We have multiple mobile phone operators, but that didn't lead to the price of mobile impulses. We've also got a reception on cable TV, on the Internet serviceman, so at the end of the day when it all comes together, the citizens will be damaged. The Niš gasification project, from which I come, has failed precisely because the prices of the connection are enormously large and everyone loses it. It loses both the city and the state, investors, citizens because it is simply impossible for someone to find 2,000-3,000 euros, where the average citizen 2,000-3,000 euros to pay for the gas station. These are the things you need to take care of, the paper suffers everything, but reality is something else. To conclude, the law also provides for the protection of the final customers, but basically it does not solve anything there. The protection of final customers is regulated in the law with three members, and the obligations of customers are regulated through eight members and turned-back again, however, the citizens are damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58525	Ten minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's MP Dusan Milisavljevic has the word, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58526	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, although I am a doctor and a professor at the Medical School, I have reported to talk about this subject, which is very important. Energy resources are one of the most important for the stability of development and the possibility that the economy has a higher growth rate in the coming period. What is our situation in Serbia in electricity production? At this point, Serbia has two main sources of electricity production, of which the water represents 25% and coal generates 75%. Our government plans to encourage the construction of several gas power plants and their development is linked to the South Stream gas pipeline from Russia. The first problem in the Serbian energy market is the price of electricity that will have to be harmonised in the EU accession process with prices in the surrounding countries in which it is higher than 30 per cent. The international market whose share we want to become cannot allow much difference in price between neighbouring countries and markets, as an unequal competitive position is created. What is much more important to me as a doctor is the problem of carbon dioxide and pollution that comes from electricity produced from lignite, i.e. coal. The situation produces a financial retrieval that Serbia will have to pay large foams in the next period on each ton of lignite used to produce electricity, as now one ton of lignite is 11 euros, and foams are at 20 euros per tonne of lignite. Supporting the reason for the development of green energy, the DS supports and finds that water reserves are limited and have a limit, as well as a threat that due to climate change, Serbia will not be the same in the future, as it will not be in Europe or the whole world. Coal used in Serbia has a very low energy value and exploitation will be increasingly expensive over time. There are reliable estimates that the price of electricity will rise at the European level for the next 10 to 20 years and that the price of electricity produced from gas will be increasingly expensive, as much as we do projections that the price of gas will continue to be the same. This leads us to believe that Serbia must invest in the development of the renewable energy sector, and in particular the wind energy, from solar sources if it wants to retain a good power position in the future, invest in renewable energy sources and invest in our future and the future of our country and our successors. Therefore, we must turn to ensuring energy production from all available sources. The only underexploited sources are renewable energy sources. My fellow Members and fellow MPs, 20 years ago when I entered Austria and Germany, the first encounter with these peoples and those countries was the great windmills that made me a great impression of a new, good civilization that we do not have in Southeast Europe. What are renewable energy sources? In terms of renewable energy sources, we mean energy sources that are in nature and are being restored in whole or in part, especially the energy of water streams, wind, unaccumulated solar energy, bio mass and geothermal energy. The use of these sources contributes to more efficient use of its own potential in energy production, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, reducing imports of specific fuels, developing local industry and creating new jobs. By ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community, Serbia accepted, among other things, the obligation to adopt and implement a plan to implement the European Commission Directive under Article 2001/77 on the promotion of electricity production from renewable energy sources and the European Commission Directive 2003/30 on the promotion of the use of biofuels and other renewable energy fuels in the transport sector. The European Commission Directive defines renewable energy sources as a national target for the production of renewable energy, under two, as a programme of measures for their achievement, under three, guarantees for the origin of electricity produced from renewable energy sources, four, simplification of the legal framework for the construction and exploitation of the plant, five, the obligation for transmission and distribution operators to take over and transport electricity from renewable energy sources, which means that the energy produced in Serbia will be virtually consumed in our country. The Republic of Serbia became a member and founder of the International Agency for Renewable Energy on 26 January 2009 as the first international organisation to focus exclusively on renewable energy and will actively continue to participate in the work of this agency in line with the Statute of the Agency and its interests in the areas of activation and use of renewable energy sources. The main objective of this Agency for Renewable Energy is to become the main driving force for the accelerated transition towards widespread and sustainable use of renewable energy throughout the world, and its main activities would include providing concrete advisory services to governments of industrialised countries in the development of renewable energy policy, technology transfer and advisory services, as well as building and achieving capacity in the area of renewable energy use. What's the situation in Europe? Europe has ambitious objectives to combat climate change. A topic that avoids being talked about, and a topic that will be the main topic in some coming years that will be fought by the wars and migrations of a large population to fight for healthy drinking water, a fight for healthy food, so that we, as a country, must also take a lot of care in the coming period. Europe says it is considering within the framework of the international protocols that by 2020 the target of 20% of total energy is at 30% from renewable sources. Unfortunately, the international community did not set new targets in Copenhagen in 2009, as envisaged, as suggested, as suggested to be the successor protocol from Kyoto. The fight against climate change is one of the biggest challenges we face, unless global action is quick to stabilise the growing temperature of the earth's surface, which is likely to be irreversible and catastrophic damage. My personal opinion is that it is very difficult to stop the process of destroying our planet and our climate, but a Europe that makes efforts, I think that Serbia must be more actively involved in all these protocols that the European Commission is working with members of the European Community. The EU adopted an integrated energy and climate policy in December 2008, including ambitious targets for 2020. It hopes to put Europe on track towards a sustainable future with a low share of carbon dioxide and a more energy efficient economy. Reduction of greenhouse gases from 20 to 30 if international agreements occur, reduction of energy consumption by 20% through increasing energy efficiency and obtaining 20% of energy from renewable energy sources. Europe has created a clear strategy that can be done in a short time. What does Europe do to resolve these issues? Gas reductions by at least 20% compared to 1990, 30% if other developed countries commit to these reductions. Under two, increasing the use of renewable energy sources – wind, solar energy and biomass to 20% of total energy produced, while reducing energy consumption by 20% from projected levels by 2020. As a state in all these three topics, we are very late. I sincerely hope that the DS, which runs this government, and coalition partners will throw much more aspects on these three EU plans, which is planned in the coming period, by 2012. What's going to change in particular? A package of climate and energy policy measures from Europe, approved in December 2008, says power plants and high-energy industries will be able to reduce emissions by 21% below 2005 levels. How? Through a guarantee to reduce gas emissions through a European trade agreement that includes emissions, which covers almost 40% of emissions. For sectors which are not covered by this agreement, for example transport, other than air traffic, which will join the 2012 agreement, then agricultural producers, the waste industry, the emissions of harmful gases will be reduced by 10% by 2020. It is very difficult to force poor countries that have not used their development to reduce harmful gases and reduce their production. Europe predicts that by 2020, for example, Sweden is limited to 50% to have renewable energy, while allowing it to be 10%. At least 10% of the fuel used for transport in each country must come from renewable sources - biofuels, hydrogen, green electricity. Biofuels must meet certain criteria. Promotion of the use of storage gas of geologically stored carbon may affect the reduction of fossil gas emissions used in the production of thermal power plants and industry. What are the benefits of these measures? An example to the rest of the world of how to help and create a new global climate framework, safer energy supply, 50 billion euros of lower gas and oil introduction. We do not need to glorify any source of energy or give it an advantage or gas that comes from Russia, or gas that comes from Kazakhstan because we have examples of Ukraine, we have examples of other countries that were economically bound and blocked just by blocking that gas flow. Serbia must create its renewable energy sources in order not to be dependent. One million jobs are expected in the EU from renewable energy to 2020. There are currently 300,000 jobs in Europe in this sector. A correct advantage through ways and innovation in the European energy sector, more jobs in industrially-related environments, etc. As the MP of the DS, I will advocate in my parliamentary club and in my party that renewable energy sources as something new, as something which is the taboo topic in Serbia to promote and that these renewable energy sources in recent periods are increasingly present in Serbia and that we have large retro parks to have large solar power plants because it is something that is good, it is something that enables our country's independent energy work, enables the state to use electricity without problem, without favouring any of the renewable energy sources parallelly working with all these energy sources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58527	It's been used 12 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic, and then by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just before one of the fellow MPs said he expected it to be good to talk more about this law. The question arises whether this law and this law deserve to be spoken of, perhaps not because the law is so badly written. I would not want to underestimate on behalf of the SRS anyone who has participated in writing this law, but for the SRS the biggest problem and the most controversial are those who need to implement this law. Dear gentlemen of the government, it is not this law that you are changing and that will take effect when this biolimite is adopted and the problem of changing the energy sector in Serbia, the problem was the manners and political will of those who were obliged to implement the law. You know very well that's how it is. That's why we're skeptical with the spectres of certainty that this law is going to change something. After all, those who have proposed this law did not flee from putting into this law. You wrote very openly that one side of the law is in line with European rules and directives, and then you say that there are no categories in the x places in Serbian legislation that recognise European legislation, so you said that they are public tenders, public services and public goods, horizontally and vertically integrated enterprise, etc. So, on the initial side of the mazacone, the government of the Republic of Serbia explains that this will introduce market principles, separate renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, and then the explanation suggests that they are disabled at the beginning to fully implement this law. Then how does this law deserve a serious debate? I repeat, it is not against the SRS for a private initiative to enter this sector, but what are the conditions and what people are going to implement. People who have marked energy in Serbia for the past 10 years? Is that what we should trust and what Serbia should rely on? Today, when you mention, as much as it bothers the energy, the citizen thinks "Colubara", then Vuk Hamovic, and Vojin Lazarevic. What renewable energy sources? What energy efficiency? We'll get to that if you let me. This story, told or read by Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and then told by some MPs from the Parliament's majority, was heard here in 2004, only years changed, the same actors, the same text, only energy sinks. I ask those in charge in this room to create a parallel where Serbia's energy sector was in 2003 and 2004, and where it is today, in 2011, and when it was in worse shape. Do you know why I'm asking you? Because in 2004 you were distracting the Assembly Hall and the public with the energy development strategy by 2015. Do you know what the 2004 law was? Sublimation of top priorities from this strategy. The SRS deeply believes that the law that will no longer be valid was a limiting factor in improving the energy sector, but that sick political will was burdened by sick political relations and the need for individuals and groups to be rich. They're the only ones who made it through this whole story. When it comes to deliveries, this country has provided only supplies of Serb heads, and no stable electricity, etc. Then in that strategy you wrote, among other things, what priorities are. It says it's the first priority, the priority of technological continuity, so you're talking about technological modernisation of energy systems and revitalisation of energy sources. When it comes to this priority, I don't want to challenge everything to the end, this is all about brutal robberies of the construction sector in the electricity sector, brutal robberies through public procurement. You can talk as much as you want about the Kyoto deal, you have no idea or you have no idea, but shut up and don't talk. Then here some say -- let's get this epilogue, we're up for it. Let's finally have one brought to court who put millions in his pocket. As a result, within ten years, the DOS government has not received a single capital energy facility, because more than ten years in Serbia talk about Bulgaria's nuclear thermopower plant, but renewable energy sources. What law? What can we talk about? What can we talk about? With them, funny. The second priority was - rational use and an increase in energy efficiency. Dear gentlemen, today only seven or eight experimental departments talk about energy efficiency in Serbia. Imagine a man who's retired, what he knows about energy efficiency. They are full of the mouths of European standards and European directives, without talking about this in another way, which is a rational use. Let's tell us how many years or after you passed this last law you changed the structure of electricity consumption? So there's an ASS group, so you're making comparisons there, so let's see where and where electricity is spent the most in Serbia? Then, selective use of new renewable sources. In Serbia where you go to the president of the municipality to ask for permission and he tells you – well, if you want the papers for the mini power plant, gentlemen, you have to tell me what my percentage is in that hydropower plant, to sign the papers you need to get. What renewable energy sources, what wind generators in Serbia. When you go to a village and tell people - let's plant a turnip of oil here. They drive you out of that village because you wasted ten years on Serbia because of Kolubara, because I don't know what, instead of investing money and brains in something else. That's why you don't have the credibility to talk about all this anymore. That's why one very serious thing is being thought out. That's why even though someone thinks they don't have a serious story weight, it's not because of it, it's all lost credibility in front of them, absolutely everything. What renewable energy and energy efficiency sources? Or, in the end, the extraordinary investment in new sources, that was your fourth principle. I was talking about public procurement. I live in a municipality, where there's one part of the big power system of the Vlassin hydropower plant. What people say, what happens through the construction revitalization of all that and who gets all the jobs? Finally, intense investment in energy sources. I repeat, I asked this question a moment ago – what capital energy facility did this country receive? You weren't in a state of power counting to replace, and what you want to borrow, while on one side some thirty million stole in Colubara and they're waiting for an epilogue. On the other hand, Serbia is in charge of changing numbers. There's no more credibility here to be serious about all this stuff. As far as the SRS is concerned, we believe that you who have proposed this law, unfavoring anyone, have indeed not adopted the directives, you know, the EU, which you are leading us to so far has changed three generations of the directive, Serbia is still at the level of the first, so late. You are not doing these legislative changes because things in energy have changed and affirmed, so your directives have become narrower, you are asking for more, than because Europe has changed. That's why in this Serbia it all seems miserable and miserable, which we do nothing for us, we do nothing in accordance with our capabilities, our potentials and our limiting factors. The only serious resource we have is lignite, we no longer use 76% of these resources. That's not what they're talking about. They don't care. Dear Madam of the Ministry, since the minister is gone, he is, by the circumstances of the minister, not interested in it very much, if the government hadn't reconstructed it probably wouldn't have dealt with it, it's unfortunate that such a political elite, if it can be called that, has devised a very serious thing in Serbia. I sincerely hope that citizens in elections with such nonsense will end up in the next election immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58529	Ten minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Dejan Nikolic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58530	Dear President, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I must admit that I am satisfied with the process of passing this law, satisfied with public debates in four major cities and the possibility that the professional public participates in the process of law making, but I always believe that laws should be passed with a broad consensus, with the adoption of opinions and a proposal of profession, but also with citizens, associations of citizens who are interested in certain topics. It is one of the basic democratic principles and features of democratic power. With the food and water industry, I consider this energy sector the most important for our country, and I view this law as the most important system law that every country regulates its energy sector, energy market, laying the foundations for the long-term development of our country, but also setting conditions for good diplomatic, good neighbourly relations with regions in the environment, developing such a very important regional co-operation. The fact is that in today's rather globalised world, the issue of the environment and the issue of energy is one of the most important issues of the world's chances, as well as individual economies for further development. If we enter a little bit into the history of countries that have large amounts of energy in their reserves, the relationship of these countries with the countries that these countries supply to energy, which are otherwise surrounded by the world economy, we will see that the future in this sector has to be planned on a much healthier basis. It's no secret that energy and energy are actually the top of the topic in the diplomatic relations of the states. It's no secret that war was waged around the Energens, that world economies and world finance were in motion. But even though we're talking about such an important topic, energy is still the basis of conflict today, there are different concepts of development. In the United States, Democrats and Republicans have been struggling over energy, development concepts and the environment for decades. Democrats approach the topic much more seriously, with more ambitious projects, which, however, cause some revolution in the business sector because of the price and realisation of these projects, on the other hand, Republicans create their own policy mainly according to business interests. Such political conflicts are always overrun in a rather harsh way in international terms. The battle over the Middle East's oil spring lasts for over half a century, began with Musadek's nationalisation of the oil industry, continued with the nationalisation of the Suek Canal, so that the largest economic crisis in 1973 could finally begin to reflect on renewable energy sources. But that wasn't enough. Two major oil crises took place in the 1980s, 1990s, in Iraq and Iran. This suggests that energy crises are the products of military-political situations in the Middle East, which owns over half of the world's oil reserves. If we take this as a context, this becomes a matter of the security of certain nations, certain regions, and the whole world. In the future, any energy policy, whether national, European or global, must realise three principles objectives: security, combating climate change and economic development. It's not possible to choose one of these three, nor is it possible to favour one at the expense of the other. I think the proposal for this law respects these three objectives and creates preconditions for their achievement. Just by harmonising this law with norms, EU directives, we respect norms and directives in the fight against climate change. With a very precise definition of renewable energy sources, their greater use directly affects the security of our country's energy supply and thus affects the overall security of our country. With the opening of the energy market since 2015, opportunities have been opened for new investment in infrastructure, energy infrastructure and the creation of new green spots, which is why I will support this law as a national MP, because that is the EU policy. The European Commission has adopted a European Energy Programme for Recovery, which has allocated 4 billion euros for 59 projects that respect these objectives – security, combating climate change and economic development. The EU is very committed to this objective, as is the conclusion, known as 202020 by 2020, which obliges all Member States, candidates for the EU, as well as those countries that seek to be, such as Serbia, to adapt their environmental but energy laws and objectives to this objective. It is a great challenge for Serbia. There is no doubt that there is a lot of work ahead of us, Serbia is poor with energy, domestic oil and gas reserves are very low, the largest reserves are spare lignite, i.e. coal. There is a tendency for energy consumption to grow, thus increasing import dependence in our country. This suggests that we need to react urgently and necessarily to the greatest consumption, i.e. the production of energy from renewable energy sources, because they are part of a solution to the sustainability of future policy. Unlike these so-called. Traditional energy, Serbia is rich in renewable energy sources. If, for example, Serbia's annual energy demand is recalculated in oil of about three million tonnes, renewable energy potentials – 4.1 million tonnes of oil, it is true that complete capacity cannot be exploited, but we have to work on it. I think this law is exactly what leads to it. As an MP from Soko Banja, known as the green heart of Serbia and the first ecological municipality in Serbia, I am very interested in the environmental aspect of the application of this law. Energy policy is half the environment policy and half the natural resources policy. As much as we try to make these two policies two sides of the same medal, they will always be, at least for now, the foundations of economic and environmental conflicts, and industry and sustainable policies, and companies and the civil sector. Most countries have made compromises at the expense of the environment, and in favour of economies and jobs. As an ecologically very conscious man, I refuse to have to choose between environments and jobs in the 21st century, especially as we know that countries have to develop their own economy that must be based on an economy that supports green standards. By the end of next year, some 10,000 so-called "Ten thousand" will be opened in Serbia. green jobs. Capacities and potentials are much higher, and we will only expand them by using renewable energy sources as much as possible. What does that mean for the municipalities? Take an example of a spa whose primary activity is health tourism. Most of the spas or all of the spas, i.e. public households and the public sector, are heated on coal, wood and mahout, with a huge emissions of carbon dioxide and soot in the atmosphere, reducing their capacity to deal with health tourism. Soko Banja is filled with biomass, thermal waters and there is an economic justification for building a solar power plant up to one megawatt. If we use all these capacities, we will raise our capacities to deal with health tourism, boost competitiveness on the European market and open up the possibility of further economic development of my Soko Banja, but also of all spas and municipalities in Serbia. We will vote for this law, but we will participate very actively in the discussion of the amendments. I think the law has some faults. Simply, I don't think the fixing tariff is well-defined enough, no fixing tariff for waste is defined, for the EU standard, but also for the great potential in Serbia. I don't think new energy sources are well-defined enough. I mean, specifically, hybrid electric drive, burning cell and hydrogen energy, which is also a European standard, and which must be more seriously defined in the coming period, if we want to put Serbia in the long run towards development. Once again, we will vote in favour of this law, but we will seriously monitor the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58531	Nine minutes and 154 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Before I give my word to the People's Parliament, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today after 1800 hours. The subject of our work will be the draft energy law currently under discussion. Once we have completed the debate on this bill, we will move on to the opening of the debate on the 2nd item of the agenda – the proposal to amend and supplement the Air Traffic Act, by not working longer than 19.30 - 19.45 hours, however much we do on the 2nd point of the agenda. Excuse me, MP. After the MP attaches his discussion, a break will be set.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, this is a very important law for the SRS because it brings in a complex system many newspapers and many strangers. Later on, we'll see that it's actually going to create huge problems. That's why we've given particular attention to handing over all the provisions of this law. We have been actively involved on boards, and in public hearing about this law, and in that sense, repairing these provisions, we have given amendments and through individual consideration, we have tried to point out possible problems in the resolutions of this law and we have sought improvements. That is why we have made 40 amendments, where we ask the representatives of the ministry and the representatives of the government to look at them and to install them into the existing law, because we have seen some illogicalities and problems that will happen in practice. It is an attempt to look at and offer appropriate solutions in a fruitful way. What's wrong with this law? The problem with this law is hasty, which is atypical to such a complex law. Why rush, if we haven't seen enough of what's important from the aspect of this law. The bill promoter tells us we're going into reform. However, we see no reform move in this law, other than that, that we will fully open the market. The opening of the market in all systems and in all times has always been limited from a national aspect, where certain reforms may have problems. What was the task of the competent state institutions, the superintendent of the Ministry of Energy and Mining, because for many years this was being prepared, and today the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy? It's to look, to do analysis and see what that reform will bring. Let's see what it brings in terms of consumers, customers, citizens. Will it get cheaper energy, will it get safer and more credited energy and how much does it cost the citizens? What does that mean from the aspect of business entities and public enterprises operating in this area? Is that adequately considered? Do our companies have prudential elements to compete in the open market? Under the provisions of this law, we have opened the entire market. What about the aspect of the state? What's that country gonna bring? It is a complex system that today employs over 50,000 workers, who participate in the GDP of 15% - 17%. So, serious action that we can't leave to the market's verse. When we pointed to problems, then we said that the biggest problem is that everything else we can see can swim, but market opening is a great danger. Let's get in line. Under the existing 2004 law, one of the most vital provisions of the law is a strategy. We brought the strategy next year. I've done my best, and I've taken out of the strategy everything that's provided for in that strategy, so we'll see what's been done. In the hydrosystem, the strategy says – it will start to build new power plants. Under two – modernization and rehabilitation of old hydropower plants. When building new ones, it is said this way – by 2010 prepare project documentation and conduct a public tender and enter the process of building the following hydropower plants: Ribaričići, Bistrica and Vrujci. Construction of other hydropower plants such as Đerdap, Đerdap III larger, but Paklenica, Svodje, Drina I, II, III, Brodarevo, Lakat etc. What's done? Nothing. It's typical of this power. Let's write a fantastic strategy, first of all a fantastic law, so let's make a fantastic strategy and do nothing of it. It's volunteering. When it comes to politics, it's political volunteerism, and that's the worst thing that's happening to us. Everything we bring in, what brings in this highest home and the highest state of institutions, this is not in practice achieved. That's the biggest problem. Because the powerful, because the lobbies push what suits them. Today we're going to do this, this year we're going to do this, that year we're going to do that, etc. What is the task under the provisions of this law? We'll bring back a strategy where we'll write what you're going to write. But you can't go in and innovate certain legal projects until you do, until we figure out what the economic system is, what our credit rating stuff is, what our problems are, and then we paint it all in the national strategy with, as you've said here for 15 years. When we get a national strategy, then we know where we're going and what we're going to do and then we're making laws, then we're making plans, then implementation plans, and so on. You've turned again. But it's not your fault. It's your employer's fault. Who's the employer? The European Union. This is where the minister came to us and all the ministers came and said no, not Europe doesn't force us, etc. We do it on our own free will. It's not true, it's not true. You explained it in this bill. In your explanation, you're saying that it's coordination, harmonisation, harmonisation with the EU. That's a priority for you. That's why you started all this, but you didn't run any tests. What will the citizens of Serbia get in 2015? Will he get a safe, secure, cheap energy? He won't get it. They'll pay a far higher price for energy. He'll be in a far more unfavourable position than he is today. And that comes from the provisions of this law. Energy efficiency is in almost all systems of activity of particular social interest, importance. The state singles out, no matter what, huge resources to have an integrated system, a comprehensive system, to satisfy consumers, and to make these energies as cheap as possible. And we can say that we have cheap energy, but the question is, after the market opens, are we going to have cheap energy? We opened the banking system, it entered European and we praised it, etc. Now we pay the most expensive interest. We've opened the trade chains. We're paying the most expensive products again, etc. Everything we've opened up in terms of the complete opening of the market here we've had huge problems and citizens can't make up for everything that's related to this area. Furthermore, when we talk about how you baptized him here, the compensation for incentives from renewable energy sources. The State Aid Control Act lives in our legal life. This country cannot single out a single dinar, these are EU directives, that's our law, that's our Constitution. This country cannot isolate and create interference in the market by separating renewable energy sources. You're disrupting the market. You're bringing into an unfavourable position of one who enters into investment in solar energy, one who enters into investment in hydropower and one who enters the thermoenergy. That's not allowed. You say that here. On the other hand, you, in the context of the proposal, say it will be paid by the citizens. Why would a citizen pay for a single power plant that will be on a solar drive or an energy plant that will be produced from bio-mass, pay three times the price of electricity than it pays from hydroenergy. No state has allowed it, nor can this country turn it over to its citizens. Let the state stand out, but it can't be paid by a citizen, and you say here that it will be paid by a citizen through a normally far higher price of electricity than from some sources of energy. Furthermore, from the point of view of the SRS. This is an extremely unacceptable law. A law that will have huge repercussions and long-term repercussions that will be difficult to get out of. We will be prisoners of the foreign capital of the Energans who will come from the side, who will suppress everything that lives right now. It's hard to attract, our debts and accumulated losses in the electricity industry are huge. This will cause disturbances in the functioning of domestic businesses, public enterprises in this area, will allow foreign capital to enter and build energy that will become monopolies here. Exactly what is a bit of an EPS, NIS etc, which have been so far. We'll get some other entities to dictate prices. We'll get a far more expensive product, etc. It is a great concern for the SRS that with this law we will become prisoners of certain foreign capital, economic operators who will come. It is very harmful for Serbian national interests, such as what happened yesterday when a man who defended it was arrested, etc. We've had a lot of disagreements with the arrested Hadzic, but not that way, not that way with the fanfares, etc. It is shameful for the interests of this country and it is shameful for the Serbian people to deliver in this way, while all other criminals are protected by both the state and Croatia, BiH and Kosovo and Metohija, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58533	I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. The next speaker is Radoslav Milovanovic, then Sreto Peric. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58535	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, the bill on energy, as one of the system laws, is very important to us. In a few words, I will look back at all aspects of this law. The last law in this area was passed in 2004 and it has been unsurpassed in many areas. What is the essence of this law? It gradually opens the electricity and gas market and stimulates renewable energy production. For the first time, households and small buyers will be entitled to choose gas and electricity suppliers since 1 January 2015. The concept of a small buyer, according to European standards, is a company of up to 50 employees and with a total annual income of up to 10m euros. This law, which I personally support, introduces the notion of an energy-hazarded customer, which will have special protection, given its social and health status. This means the right to deliver a certain amount of electricity and gas, under privileged conditions, and different exclusion criteria. What is further important under the provisions of the new law is the role of the Energy Agency as an independent regulatory body. An open market for electricity is being introduced in Serbia, i.e. the market as well as the bilateral market and the balance market for energy, where the operator buys electricity to balance and secure the safe operation of the system. What does the waist say? It defines balanced energy as the energy needed to cover the deviations of planned and realised production or electricity consumption, which ensures the stability and security of the electrical system. The new law, which is also positive, simplifies the procedures for realising investments and allows for increasing energy efficiency and increasing investment in renewable energy elections. I think the failure of the law is insufficient to define new sources of energy, such as hybrid fuel and cell drive, electric power, hydrogen energy, biofuels ethanol and biodiesel, are not defined so-called. waste tariffs for waste, i.e. guaranteed waste prices. Biofuels are new hopes of reducing dependence on harmful fuels. The overall annual potential of Serbia has been recalculated to better understand oil, amounts to 4.3 million tonnes of oil, which corresponds to half of Serbia's annual energy needs. Total investment in green energy worldwide has increased by 32%. China has become a leader in green energy. What is still the advantage of this law is that the new energy law introduces guarantees of origin for energy produced from renewable energy sources. What are the benefits of our country? Annual products are produced, i.e. Cuts into state forests in Serbia a million and 100,000 cc's of wood. Unfortunately, between 20 and 30 percent remain in the forest, in the urinary tracts, which is an untapped possibility. Examples of good practice are the town of Varvarin and their energy saving model, i.e. energy efficiency, which has become a world model. How important investment is and how much some parts of our country are taking this seriously is the project that Padinska Skela is now doing together with the Swiss Development Agency and this project is worth five million euros and it will enable the construction of a straw plant, i.e. on biofuels. The new energy law is a system law and it is certainly a major step forward in the civilization sense. In the development of legal legislation for the use of renewable energy sources. As a MEP, I will support this law, and I will be ready to participate actively in the debate on amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58536	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am not going to ask you and ask you a question, under whose pressure and intensity this law has been pressured to pass so quickly, but I simply cannot ask a question, since there are about 50 sides here, which are talking about harmonising this law with EU regulations. The 208-member bill does not mention KIM, and you heard what mineral reserves that part of Serbia has. In an explanation, several sentences could state the relationship between the regime and the government towards the RS territory. Many colleagues mentioned renewable energy sources, not to mention the benefits and the desire to apply them more in Serbia, without talking about the specific problems that arise. One of his colleagues tried to focus a debate on what the MPs needed to talk about, with his debate marking the need to protect the environment. Of course, it has enriched this part of the activity related to this debate, but it should not be forgotten what problems exist with those who want to invest and want to engage in renewable energy reserves. This area is characterized by disorganizedness, indiscriminateness, tromostness, corruption. This is not only characteristic of the energy sector, it is characteristic of overall life and political activity in Serbia. Here, when it comes to disorganization, ignorance, trombones and corruption, and I'm going to make some concrete examples. My wish is to set a number of concrete examples so that the Minister and his associates in the Ministry would try to solve these problems, i.e. to keep them in mind when this law is applied. This law is likely to experience its amendment relatively quickly, as it is said, new directives are being prepared to regulate this area. When it comes to wanting to help build small, mini power plants, it seems to me that these things are not in practice the way we advocate and most of our colleagues support it. That's just fine. Here's just one example: land for the construction of a mini power plant was purchased in a buy-in contract and paid off on 11 November 2010, and in the Tax Administration, revenues in a local self-government, that part of the job was completed only on 18 July this year. You see how long it takes to go through just one part of the job related to renewable energy sources. So it takes eight months to finish a job at a tax administration in local self-government. The second example is from the EPS. I quote the words of an EPS official who says, "We're under conditions of networking in the EPS, and it takes five months to get this job done." There are a large number of interested and foreign and domestic persons for the construction of mini power plants, but simply in local self-government, I will not say that I always dominate the desire for corruption or for the opening of this issue, but it is simply a great disincentive and in one period invited the presidents of certain local self-governments, the president is a municipality of some lectures that were organized for the construction of mini power plants, but it is necessary to constantly promote this idea and help those who want to invest. There is no economic development, there is no economic perspective without stabilising the energy system, and you know that due to technical and non-technical conditions, electricity spills at an annual level of over 350m euros or perhaps close to 400m euros annually. It would be enough to organize it and to reduce these losses, perhaps not possible, I'm not a technical person, it may not be possible to bring them down to zero or something that is insignificant in the waste, but to reduce it by 50%. You see what savings would be and what that would mean, what help could be given to people who want to build mini power plants. Of course, solar energy should be more affirmed in the coming period. We had a recent example, on June 27th, a cornerstone was laid for the construction of the first solar power plant in Zlatibor, where the company "Dunav Insurance" together with representatives of EPS, i.e. with the general director of the public company EPS and with the president of the municipality in Chatetina signed an agreement on a joint performance in the construction of the solar power plant, which is the capacity of five megawatts, which is needed for the investment of around 15m euros. Furthermore, what we could hear in public is that Dunav Insurance is planning to build 50 mini power plants, which is about 28 of them in the Zlatibor County. Doesn't it seem to you that certain companies are already trying to operate a monopoly in that area at the beginning. That's probably not gonna be good. It is not bad that the company "Dunav Insurance" invests in this form of its activities, but might be able to focus some of these funds on buying anti-urban missiles, so not to eliminate the payment of the insurance premium, but to keep those agricultural products that are destroyed after the city clouds, because then we lose the ability to process agricultural products, and therefore we employ a certain number of employees. Communal waste should also be paid serious attention, geothermal water, biomass, anything that really opens up a great perspective and an opportunity to produce alternative energy, but also something that would allow more unemployed people to be hired. The Master Plan, which was made in Serbia in 1989, seems to me to have been done quite inextricably, as it is planned that there are about 400 locations in Serbia to build a mini power plant. Even in the municipality of which I come from 14, which is Love, and with the last attempt and in the latest works of master plan it is possible to build 47 mini power plants in this area, in a few words, located in the municipality of Ljubovija. Overall, there is a great possibility in the middle of Podrinj for the construction of a mini power plant and there should not expect assistance from end-users. That state should do a lot more on that plan. It seems to me that the earlier law, or still applicable law, is Article 86. The energy law has better regulated investors' assistance to build a mini power plant through these subsidies than is now foreseen by this law. Now they're gone, they're completely lost. My colleagues, I think, are saying, on a flat-rate basis, that the procedure has been simplified, and it is certain that the procedure has not been simplified, this administrative procedure in the construction of these mini-electric power plants. I think that at the level of the ministry, or the energy sector, one team should be involved to assist those interested in the construction of these hydropower plants. Trying to build three dams on the Drina River is a completely bad project. There was a proposal to make Krieger's overdrive system, so that instead of three large ones, five smaller power plants would not be able to accumulate water, where it would not affect climate change, changing other conditions. I think that's a better option. I'd be happy if you ministry people could see what the problems are with those who want to invest and help them in a certain way. It may be necessary to invite these people, tell them what it takes, at what speed and dynamics it can be done. This would benefit the entire social community, i.e. the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58538	I give my word to the MP, Michael Puric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58539	Dear President, Mr Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, we have before us a proposal for a law on energy and what is very important, we heard in the presentation of our colleagues, some colleagues said there were no significant investments in energy, and I disagree. Very large investments in energy have been in the last ten years. As far as the EU is concerned, only EU subsidies amount to 450m euros, not to mention Germany's development bank, as much as those funds are invested in energy. I will only mention the hydropower plant in Mali Zvornik, a hydropower plant in Gerdap and a hydropower plant in Bajna Basta. What I'm saying is that by adopting this law, as well as other regulations and acts, which will be passed under this law, our legislation in the field of energy will largely be harmonised with European legislation. The adoption of energy law creates conditions for reliable, safe and quality energy supply, energy, market development, competitiveness, consumer protection, the continuation of energy reform through the improvement of the work of energy operators, their training for market action and business. The new law will create better conditions for our energy sector, for integration, for the regional market, for sustainable development, for improving energy efficiency, as well as for simplifying the investment procedures for the energy sector, which is very important and, so far, we have to admit, we haven't had. The draft law provides a basis for stimulating as much energy production as possible from production capacity, which uses renewable energy sources, clearly defined conditions on the basis of which the status of the privileged energy producer can be obtained. The adoption of this energy law is in line with the activities undertaken by the Republic of Serbia in order to establish a legal and institutional framework for the implementation of the necessary activities in order to adapt and comply with EU legal standards in the field of energy. This is a very important law and I hope that in the next period we will have other laws that are in this area, where we will clearly define energy status as strategic branches in our country. The law liberalises the market, as well as the possibility of investment and all branches of energy with a new law will be open to free investment and open competition, according to rules signed by the energy agency. What's very significant and what I want to point out is that the world has changed a lot in the last 20 years. On the entire planet, the question of energy is the ultimate question. That is why each country's energy security, including Serbia, is today the most important issue and strategic goal. The main task of all countries is the security and availability of energy and energy for each citizen, and these are sufficient amounts of energy and energy at sustainable prices, i.e. those prices that can be paid by the average consumer. Given the importance of energy as an economic branch in Serbia's economy, it can be concluded that the energy accession process is essentially the most important process within its European integration. Energy is currently Serbia's largest single economic branch and participates with more than 20% in the formation of a national product. The new law creates conditions for reform in the energy sector, has a significant impact on general economic development, the situation and investment opportunities, raising quality and creating a market economy, trained to join the EU single market. The energy sector is a significant employer in Serbia today, and energy employment is a major part of Serbia's overall employment. That is why it is very important to regulate and bring this area into line with EU legislation and rules. If we start from today to increasingly apply modern technology and the need to preserve productivity in the energy sector, it is expected to see a relative reduction in employment in this sector. That is why the adoption of this law is very important, because it creates an opportunity for development, especially in the direction of greater use of renewable energy sources, that we expect not only to retain the existing number of employment, but also to increase in this area, as some colleagues have spoken before me on this topic. I want to point out once again that the energy sector is a sector with high knowledge participation. The need for knowledge in energy is increasing by intensifying the development of unique technologies and increasing use of renewable energy sources, as well as the need to increase energy efficiency. There is no doubt that Serbia must also be involved in the international exchange of knowledge in this area. That is why Serbia needs to agree its legislation with the EU, European legislation, because this is necessary for the sake of progress in the accession process and for the status that Serbia wants in the coming period. Articles 179 and 180 of the proposed law define the status of the Energy Efficiency Agency. I hope that in this House we will soon have the energy efficiency law, because it is something that is beyond Serbia and I think it is the area in which we have least done so far on the legal process. Why does it matter? Because the basic idea of the concept of energy efficiency and the use of less energy efficiency and the use of less energy for the same unit of social gross product, with the sustainability of product quality. The reduction in energy levels and the reduction in environmental pollution resulting from energy transformations fall within the main energy policy objectives, not only of the EU or Europe, but also of Serbia. Over the past 30 years, the whole world, and in particular Europe, has managed to significantly reduce energy consumption and to reduce the amount of energy needed to achieve a high human development index. In short, energy is an area where the ability of state governance in many other areas, including human rights, consumer protection, as well as poverty reduction, is reflected. When it comes to Serbia, the use of individual energy is very high compared to the EU average. It is at least four times bigger, as well as a contribution to global warming, or gas emissions, which is several times higher in individuals in Serbia than in the EU. That is why I think the Energy Efficiency Act is very important and I hope that we will have it in this House very soon for consideration. Dear colleagues, I therefore believe that the adoption of the Energy Law is very important for the development of our country, for investment in this area, as well as for the safer and better quality supply of our citizens' energy. The DS and MPs will vote for this bill in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58540	Thank you. I give my word to the People's Messenger, Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58541	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have today a large and important law in front of us. We in the SRS, when we consider some law, primarily think about how much this law contributes to better lives of citizens and how much it solves their problems. This law is particularly important because it is the energy law. If it is seen which areas he has touched, I do not say solved, it is especially of interest to every citizen of Serbia. Has the law been able to create conditions to improve the lives of Serbian citizens? Anyway, no. That's what the SRS think. Mr. Minister, here is an area, an area of oil and oil derivatives, which is covered by Articles 165 to 172 in this law. In law, pages 151, 152 and 153 discuss European directives relating to the area. I hold in my hand one document, gentlemen, which has been given to every MP in the assembly, which is called: The loss of NIS and the state of transport to oil derivatives in Serbia. I'll read just a few pieces, so, Mr. Minister, you don't have this law to solve, and with the state you have in Serbia today, you can't go to Europe, because Europe simply won't. I'll tell you what the number is later. "Losers can be subjected to illegal imports of components for the mixing of motor gasoline and diesel fuels imported as a re-promaterial for the production of various industries of chemical products, for the bleaching of motor oils, paint products and varnishes, solvents and diluents, as well as for the production of biodiesel. In a legal manner they take place uninterrupted at the border crossings, with constant ingenuity and imagination of the importer, under the motto of the above mentioned production." Components imported for the mixing of motor gasoline shall be specified which components, as well as components imported for the mixing of diesel fuel. In this country, Mr. Minister, there are privileged individuals who, besides NIS, make various fuels in some other places, real and motor gasoline, real and diesel fuel, by making various light oils, various products, and even from our Panchev refinery, because it also has oil and various light oils as a side product. Privileges make gasoline and diesels of far lower quality, and then what is otherwise used to alienate from NIS is used to raise their quality. I'm just going to give you a number on how much it costs the state and the NIS a year. That is 270m euros, with 300m euros that we gave to the EU in such a way agreeing to unilateral application of the SAA. That's almost two-thirds of that billion that praises us in our budget every year. Mr Minister, can we be in the EU if we have one huge amount of energy and non-state-controlled fuels, where VAT is not paid, where the state is directly damaged? You know, there are about 20 individuals in this country who can do it. From what I've seen in Articles 165 to 172, it's not clear that you, Mr. Minister, are going to do anything to fix this situation in Serbia, and for Serbian citizens, 270m euros, which are being cast each year, this is such a great number of figures that one large number of people could eventually be hired, or what the SRS intensity could be, to reduce the number of soups. We want to come to power and shut down the soup kitchens, restore dignity to the citizens of Serbia, not open the soup kitchens. Second, Mr. Minister, question directly for you. This law introduces two new agencies: the Energy Agency and the Energy Efficiency Agency, along with other areas where you are minister. I've tried to see how many agencies you have, which you either entrusted to certain actions belonging to your ministry, or are independent in performing certain actions. If you were to stand up and say "Mr. Delic, when I've formed this many agencies, I only need a secretary, driver and vehicle in my ministry and I don't need anything more," everyone in the SRS voted for this law. Regardless of how you provided funding for that agency, this day by day, from law to law, increasing the number of agencies, increasing the state administration, is simply unsustainable for citizens of Serbia. (President: You have no more time. Finish it. ) Mr. Minister, in Article 32 of the old law, there was a better solution, where only 30 days were required for an energy license. Why are you introducing 60 days now? Mr. Minister, I've proposed to Amendment 35 that you release it, because you're introducing to this member something that has never been so far, some kind of agreement for small hydroelectric power plants to one megawatt. That's not good, because you didn't even give a deadline here, now you're going to issue that consent and the criteria for that consent. I find that unnecessary. Those people who normally have to provide 42 documents before you introduce this document make it difficult for you to do this job. And it would be so good if you would respect these two amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58542	Thank you, Mr. Delic. I give my word to the MP, Vice President Gordani Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the debate on the draft energy law, which comes to us as a whole after 2004 adoption, i.e. after the preparation of 2002 and 2003, we need to spend a few minutes on a wider picture when it comes to the energy sector and it is sad that for this broader picture when it comes to, say, a hundred years of energy as a sector, it won't really take more than a few minutes. Since the small hydropower monasteries "Studentica" between two world wars in a three-day kingdom and a small facility in Kragujevac, over two or three hydropower plants, this is the result in the energy sector for renewable hydrosources for a hundred years. It took us almost 50 years to power the country. In renewable sources, we don't have any results. In the context of fossil fuels, we have been following the global crisis for a very long time in the 1970s and 1980s, and in the 1990s because of sanctions, we were out of the transport of fossil fuels, and that we have in the energy management sector relatively immoderate, so to speak, the system, but I'm more concerned that we have a system where everyone who works in the energy field thinks they have the right to say -- it's not my job to do it, it's not my job to worry about efficiency, it's not my job to worry about the price, it's not my job to worry about savings, it's not my job to be in charge. That sentence is not my job is the cancer of our relationship to the general good, to the public and to the management of public goods. To end the creation of this wider picture, just mention the exploitation of natural gas with information that in Vojvodina's territory, practically gas in the household was introduced into more than 300,000 households by self-delivery and that the introduction of gas into other parts of Serbia began only 15 or 20 years ago. The mode of gas management, as an exhaustive resource, small amounts of fossil fuels that we have and the way we exploit solid fossil fuels show our relationship to the space in which we exist as a society. That's not a good relationship. What I want to hear in response from the minister is that he gives me at least three differences between this bill that we are discussing and the previous one that was in force between 2004 and today, and that he tries not to mention once that anything is being done because of the European Union. If there is an area, and as far as I'm concerned, that's where we're supposed to be doing it for ourselves, it's an area of energy, because it shows our awareness of whether we're able to manage a space where we're in a case, many of us infinitely satisfied that the case has been chosen to be born on this very territory, but only by chance we're in one space that's an energy resource in a variety of contexts, from underground surface waters, through geothermal waters, fossil fuel sites if there are up to a renewable energy source, like solar energy or wind energy. I do not purposely mention the exhaustion, or possibility of nuclear energy, because in Serbia it is at the power plant, the ban on the construction of nuclear power plants and the transport of nuclear fuels by 2015, and if there are cases that I am wondering, then the moratorium will be extended and there will be no construction of nuclear plants. So, I'd like to ask three differences, so that we all know how, with what amount of respect and how much self-prohibit to say the sentence "it's not my job" we're going to see the differences in the law that's ahead of us. Energy, as well as water are topics for the next 20, 50, 100, 200 and as many years as you want in the future. Redistribution of available energy sources is a key cause of conflict in the world, and so it will be in the future. What is it that we are doing and respecting the space that we are given to live in and raise our children in it and leave them a healthy place for their children, what is it that in this law gives us the opportunity to really happen? Besides the three differences I'd like to hear in parallel between the law we're about to put off the force and the one we're discussing, I'd like to hear from the minister and the answers to three questions. First, the price of renewable energy. In order to promote renewable energy, the exploitation of renewable energy must first know how much it costs and how much one will have to invest in order to pay for the production of renewable energy, without mentioning the list of benefits for all of us, if the percentage per percent, per piece, is going to change the total amount of energy we spend to renewable sources as a basic source. The development of Europe in 2020 speaks of a 10% increase in the total amount of energy so that it has a source in renewable energy. It's important in this law, it's important here in the Assembly to hear investors and to hear all of us thinking, if we don't already have exact amounts of how much this renewable energy costs, and is it just the amount in euros, dollars, dinars, whatever money you want, for direct construction, or is it the cost of kilowatt renewable energy, to cut short, essentially investment for the future? The second question I would like to get an answer from the minister is to comply with the Consumer Protection Act, which concerns Article 144, which speaks of the bills that we all get for spent kilowatts, no matter what the origin of the electricity that we spend as consumers. This is countless times in which I ask the question of both the Minister and the Government representatives, or the Ministry – why not make an electricity bill that is readable to everyone? Why doesn't someone in one sentence explain to all of us who live in Serbia what a hired force is? Why does the electricity bill and, in accordance with the Consumer Protection Act, which is not clear enough in Article 144, not write for every kilowatt what is the cost of production, the price of transmission, the price of distribution and the amount of tax on each kilowatt? It is important that we know the value of the dinar that is invested in energy, as it is important that we know the value of every dinar we give for the energy we spend. It creates the trust of people living in Serbia in people who are engaged in professional, uncontested energy in Serbia. The last question I want to ask the minister is solar energy. So where is the place of use, exploitation, permission or whatever you want when it comes to solar energy, when it comes to permits and when it comes to assessing how much, how and where in Serbia solar energy can be used? I am fully aware that the energy sector is a sector where it is very easy to earn, but it is not the subject of this law, it is the law of others that protects the rules of business or it is the subject of criminal law, if criminals and thieves enter the sector, so it is allowed, whether it is people in public affairs or people who represent themselves as people of opposition, and very valuablely lobbying for their interests to leave "nomin's santa diose" in this debate. So, to separate what's the subject and why it's unnecessary, if we want to talk about the future of energy in Serbia, to mix those two, three, four or five things as much as you want. The second thing that we should discuss in more detail is precisely our mutual assessment of what kind of energy Serbia should rely on the most, what is possible to achieve the fastest and to be the subject. Each of us knows that he has no idea what he's talking about and that he's expressing indescribable pride on his ignorance, only that none of it has any use for. As we often listen here to the views that in Serbia everything sucks and that there is no hope of anything good in Serbia, I consider both of these lifestyles that are translated into discussions absolutely harmful and the product of the same sentence that I see in the energy sector and otherwise in public affairs, which is a sentence – it's not my job. If I'm an MP, I don't think it's my job not to lie, I don't think it's my job to present facts and I don't think it's my job to really deal with a subject that's on the agenda and what's the topic of dialogue. That sentence – not my job, is a sentence that harms anyone who is in public work and that sentence is a sentence to which I will tie European integration. European integrations in the future are the change of our society so that the mentality of this sentence changes and that everyone does the job for which he is responsible and that we all know that it is not finished work when the work is over, but when the job is done, as you are on vacation going when the jobs are done, not when everyone goes on vacation. Finally, just one note on the amendments I've come to see. I will plead for the amendment of MP Arsen Đuric, I apologize if I have wronged the applicant for the amendment, it is 30 megawatts. I also find it wrong to increase the amount of five or ten megawatts to 30. It looks like it's only set for one thing, maybe not, in two, MP Arsen Djuric says it's for two, for two. Don't put needlessly bad ideas into one great idea like little hydrothermia, small hydro plants, from 0.5 to one megawatt. If it is 30 megawatts that MP Arsen Djuric can prove is in two, two, two, then I would support. I'm sorry, Milan Lapcevic. I also apologize to MP Arsen Đurić and Milan Lapčević. The other amendments I wish to support are the amendments to Pavel Marchok, which discuss the management of a low voltage, or 110 kilowatt network. I suppose the minister will normally look closely at the amendments of all MPs and will try to correct the ambiguities, the weak points or the lack of confidence of defined views in the members of the Energy Law proposal. Thanks to patience and hoping to get answers that we will be satisfied with, once again, I pray that in three differences we do not mention that they are the reason for European integration, because I will immediately seek a replica, to be known, so it is better to find some three differences between this and the law that will be out of force, because it is good for Serbia's energy future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58544	I would like to thank Vice President Komic. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58545	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, we have before us a law on energy, a law that has long been pending and a law that is very important at this time for Serbia, above all, because it treats several areas that are intensities from the world and Europe, of course from Serbia, which are renewable energy sources. However, previous analyses, although incomplete and not accurate enough, still provide enough data to argue that energy is still used in our country in an unreal way compared to other countries in the environment and with the technical minimum that today's technology allows. Such a claim concerns all energy sectors. The reasons for irrationality lie in the very poor maintenance of energy plants, outdated technology, unrealistic prices and parity of energy prices, poor organisation of energy services, violent corruption and abuses that are present in the energy system, which enable the installation of the price of many interested entities, and pay the ultimate price primarily for Serbian citizens. All of this needs to be added to the country's unfavourable economic situation, insufficient engagement of existing production capacities and the country's many-year poor economic and political situation, neglecting the need for energy efficiency-enhancing programmes had the consequence of the following – large consumption of electricity for heating of residential facilities, low energy efficiency in the ageing economic intensive production technology industry, energy inefficient systems of central and urban heating, an outdated energy solution on industry, a technicalally researched energy inefficient and polluting utility for energy supply, a small degree of use of existing renewable energy potentials, as well as waste energy, a lagging in the use of the power supply and heat. What this law specifically treats, we consider to be insufficient, but it is still a significant step in Articles 52 to 63. These are renewable energy sources. What we are drawing attention to is that this needs to be dedicated to a special strategy, because that is where the future lies and what is called a sustainable energy policy, which is what the whole world and modern Europe and modern Serbia, as we all want it to be. As a parliamentary group, we have accepted that you have said that this is the priority of the ministry, since this is the last election year it will remain as a task and the next ministry to deal with this, because this is not a job that can be tackled in one term. This certainly requires a vision and strategy, a lot of energy and personal and professional and certainly one good campaign in which citizens will be familiar with what these sustainable, or renewable energy sources offer. As a parliamentary group, we've put in a few amendments. I'm just going to draw your attention to a few members that we thought should be corrected, to which we intervened in the amendment. For example. in Article 15. The draft law on the one hand provides that the system operator, independent of the vertically integrated undertaking, whose system operator is otherwise an integral part, decides independently on the availability of financial resources, and in the next position of the same member of the bill, it is said that the parent company can approve annual financial plans to the system operator and determine the limit of its duty. There is a contradiction here that needs to be overcome, in explicit form, because it is not good that the text of the law implies the difference between the day-to-day financial independence of the system operator and its financial dependence on the parent company on an annual basis. In Article 59(5), point (b) is replaced by the following: The bill is projected, this is now what you have just treated with this law, these are renewable energy sources, that the funds for the purchase of electricity from the privileged producer are paid by the end-users by a special incentive fee, which is paid in addition to the bill for access to a portable, or distribution system. The question must be raised here – whether or not another modality has been considered, how to finance and stimulate the production of electricity from renewable energy sources, and to avoid even once a breakaway burden on the citizens of this country. Such a solution will by no means contribute to the popularity of Serbia's economic policy. Otherwise, we're all probably aware of the problems that the average household normally has in paying obligations based on spent electricity, and this problem has gotten dramatically worse in the last few months, in recent years, so it's precisely because of this price that citizens need to think about and that there may be some kind of different moderation that will stimulate the payment of these funds. Article 76(1) provides for the responsibility of the distributor of the electricity system for the safe and reliable operation of the distribution system and the quality of the supply of electricity. However, this legislative proposal does not define closer the responsibility of electricity distributors for household failures, which are often due to unannounced power supply interruptions or insufficiently large power oscillations supplied to the end-user. We know how much damage citizens suffer because of it and how powerless they are to protect themselves from it. The law, however, states in Article 141 that the right and obligations of suppliers and end-users of electricity in the event of failure to comply with the obligation and in the event of suspension of delivery shall be governed by the contract. Article 142 states that the final customer enjoys the protection of his rights in accordance with this law and the law governing consumer protection, and in Article 143 that the supplier in the offer to conclude the contract will indicate the penalty, compensation, refund and other means in the event of failure to meet the contracted level of service quality. For the sake of complete objectivity, it should be noted that the case law of some countries, for example the United States, which is the source of legal norms in the Anglo-Saxon legal system, also varies from one state to another when this substance is concerned, depending on whether electricity is defined as goods or as services, which is very important when electricity is supplied. On the other hand, our legal order is set up on the principles of continental law, so it is better that this sensitive problem adequately legal norms and does not land on the field of contractual relations. Practice in Serbia shows that electricity customers are unequal when they find themselves opposed to the legal relationship with the electricity distributor, so the envisaged contractual regulation of this matter does not promise a shift in this area. In Article 137, which deals with the matter of the protection of energy facilities, the law provides that in the event of immovableity, the energy subject does not reach agreements on the issue, the decision shall be taken by the competent court. Given the efficiency of our courts, which is by no means similar to energy efficiency, we are afraid that such disputes can go on forever which can have serious consequences for restoring energy activity that is of general interest. We believe that, in terms of the provisions of this bill, it is necessary that the resolution ministry examines the existence as soon as possible, as well as the work done by the Energy Efficiency Agency so far, because Serbia, unfortunately, is a country where little has improved in terms of the situation in the energy sector in the last ten years. The provisions of this law give sufficient space to the Ministry and the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia, so that in order to realise the state administration, it should consider shutting down the Energy Efficiency Agency because, in order to achieve all possible savings, shutting down one agency would indeed be a serious step forward. In Article 195, in the transitional and final provisions, we consider this to be a mistake that has been tarnished, because no number of members are referred to in terms of the adoption of the rules for the enforcement of this law, so we ask that the Proposer specify which member of the law he had in mind. At the very end, we think that after the adoption of this law of the state we should break up with the practice of binding the billing of a television subscription along with the electricity bill. This is where we were already talking about the legible electricity bills. Citizens who have an electric number do not have television or to follow it at the same time. Therefore, we ask that this practice be overcome. I think the previous minister, Mr Petar Skundric, has said that there is a demand for modality in order to resolve this issue, but it is now something that is extremely burdensome for citizens and what this ministry is in the interests of the Serbian citizens if it really wants, apart from energy efficiency, which we are going to have to implement and which we have to strive to do, we also have to solve this burning issue that all citizens understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58546	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58547	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, the Law on Energy and Energy is at all very important topics that the National Assembly is working on in its work. As such, it is absolutely necessary and necessary for offices to be applied, to frame a legal system in which these important economic citizens are developing in Serbia. At first, I'm going to say a few sentences about what kind of atmosphere this law is being passed in. People's MPs from the ruling parties pointed out as a good democratic liquid, the newspaper that this law was being discussed publicly, and that yesterday's public hearing was in favour. I agree that this is a useful thing, but I'm afraid it wasn't useful for us as MPs and the public at all if it was organised only a few hours before the assembly began. If we want to conduct some kind of public dialogue and make an agreement on what kind of energy law we need and how energy will develop in Serbia for the next 5-20 years, then it is logical and normal that those who propose the law to make that public discussion of water at the time of its adoption, be guided by all those interested entities who want to participate in the process of passing this law and that this public debate is an incentive to make objections to the proposals and solutions in the law so that these remarks will later pass through the full ministry and eventually come to the Assembly. This is how the final law was presented in public listening, and we have received ready-made solutions that the public could not influence, of course also the MPs, except through the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58548	Mr Lapčević, the public works, four public debates were before the bill was delivered to us, so that citizens and MPs should simply remember that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58549	I do not deny that there was a public debate in Serbia, I am talking about that public listening was organised in the National Assembly on the eve of the session itself, and could have been much earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58550	It was the fifth public hearing, so the fifth time the public was involved. That remark really doesn't stand. You're making such an argument, but not based on the fact that it may be possible to get the impression that she didn't pay attention to the law. It's simple, I need to inform, the truth works, and the public and you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58551	All right. I couldn't agree more. You'll always be right. I didn't say there was no public debate, I was talking about a public hearing that could have been at least a week before the law was publicly discussed. During that public hearing, concrete remarks could be heard that could later pass through one text of the law and the full law in the procedure. Anyway, we're not gonna stick around. So energy and the energy sector in each country is a very important resource that every serious state must regulate according to its needs in the best way possible to ensure the country's energy stability and the supply of energy to its population and to make that important resource available to each of its citizens. The basis of this law, which is now on the agenda, is the 2004 law, which lays down the basic principles of energy development in our country and in one quality way solutions were given through Serbia's inclusion in the energy community, which was in the course of 2005 and later in the gas-oil agreement, which defined the Republic of Serbia strategically to ensure the country's energy stability for a long period. The gas-naphtha agreement defined Serbia as passing through its territory the large South Stream gas pipeline system that would give it great importance on Europe's energy map and on the other hand would provide large amounts of gas to secure the supply of its own population. Serbia as a transit country would also have large revenues on that basis. In every sense, it is a useful thing, regardless of the intensities of certain political parties who comment on it indefinitely in a very negative context, the adoption of this gas-oil agreement. As for the energy system in Serbia, it can be said, especially the electricity system, that it is far more quality than the electricity system of the surrounding countries. In this sense, a lot of things were done in the previous period to stabilise it and that those resources that Serbia owns to produce electricity are revitalised and to prepare the bases for new investments and for energy sources. Each normal and every serious country will, for the needs of its own population, do everything for its own development to use its own resources for the production of electricity or any other energy, to meet its own needs and to meet any surplus that arises on the market at the best possible prices. Is that the case in Serbia? Serbia, mainly, is meeting its needs for electricity production and consumption. In part, in winter imports, fly to a large part of exports, which generally gives one positive balance in the production and consumption of electricity. However, it would be logical and normal to plan ahead and that the growing energy needs, however in the world as well, are strategically considered and to think about the future, to think in time that Serbia does not have enough energy in the future and that it must import. In this context, we are absolutely unclear what motives are to move into an investment, called the joint investment of Serbia, i.e. the Elektroprivrede of Serbia and the company Seti, the Italian companies, in the construction of hydropower plants on Ibra. So Serbia has a lot more natural resources for hydropower than many other countries, so let's say Italy. These economic resources must be used by every serious country in the best possible way. Or, in my opinion, there's not a single serious country that's going to give these economic resources to someone else to manage, or to produce electricity from them, and to export that energy. Each serious country will, above all, invest in its own electricity production facilities, and then export the finished product to those who need it. It is not clear to us what logic it is that the Elektroprivreda of Serbia with the company "Seci" creates a joint company in relation to 51:49 in favour of the Italians, and that investments in hydro-resurers, i.e. hydroelectric power plants in Ibra, will be treated exclusively in cash, not with the potential that we give, but with the distribution of water resources that is Serbian, will be relative to investment and that of money investments. All electricity produced from these plants under the agreement will be exported to Italy. So we're going to spend the resource, and we're going to get half the money from what's being sold. We're not going to get electricity, and we're going to spend what we have as a resource. Resources aren't inexhaustible, resources are such that a number of power plants can be built and then we can't make any more commercials. As for concrete solutions in the law itself, I have also made certain remarks and suggestions to the Committee on Industry, we have written amendments to certain members of the law. I'll just say a few things, what we consider to be a bad enough solution. In Article 20, point 1 is said: a licence for the start-up of the following energy activities, i.e. a licence is not a condition. It is then stated for which activities are not a condition for the starting of licences. We believe that it is much more precise in the current law, because the licence was not necessary to carry out such actions. We feel that this sentence is not well-formulated, and that is why we have responded to the amendment. We suggested that it remain an old solution, that the energy license is not necessary to carry out these activities. He is also a very controversial member of 32, who says the energy license is issued by a solution within 60 days of the day of application. We are all talking in Serbia, and also in this parliament, this is, of course, shown by the research of independent organisations, that conditions for investment in Serbia are not the most favourable and that procedures are very complicated and long. When we make solutions, that is, laws and sublaws, we should make such solutions that simplify the conditions for investment and reduce these procedures as much as possible. The old solution was 30 days, and the new solution was 60 days. I think if we can't do it differently, at least by law we shouldn't extend those deadlines and give the administration the opportunity to make these solutions indefinitely. I think maybe that should even cut deadlines, not extend them. That doesn't get you anything. On the contrary, we will fall even lower on the scale of unfavorable investment in our country. We have responded to this article in amendment, and we think it is very useful to accept this suggestion. In Article 33, it is said that if changes in the data based on which an energy licence has been issued, the applicant for an energy licence is obliged to submit an application for an amendment within the time limit of the energy authorisation. It should be specified not to do so with additional costs, because the high cost of payment is to get an energy permit. Article 35 says, or one newspaper is being introduced, which is also not something that is the quality of the new law. I'm against it. So far, no energy permits have been issued to build small hydropower plants to one megawatt. Now the ministry is also giving consent to the construction of these facilities. We believe that this should not be an obstacle, or more complicated investment procedure. We've responded to the amendment, given that we've been given an explanation that there's an abuse, in terms of capacity, if there's a water flow that can be built, for example. A 500 kilowatt power plant, someone's building with 100 kilowatts, which isn't rational. In this regard, we have responded to the amendment and suggested that the ministry should only give confirmation of the compliance of the project with the capacities, so that this is not a drastic difference compared to what was projected. Only amendments to the 56th year in which it is said – privileged producers of small hydroelectric power plants can be those with installed power up to 30 megawatts. We think it's too much power. The purpose of the privileged producer is to boost the investments of small businesses that will invest in small hydropower plants up to one or 10 megawatts. We find over 10 megawatts irrational. The power of up to 30 megawatts is high power, high capacity, large annual production, and oblige the state to buy all produced energy from these capacities at privileged prices, I really think it's too much of a commitment to the state. I don't think we need it without talking about the other part, about suspicion of any personal interests in this article. To conclude in the end, this law is in good works harmonising the legislation in the field of energy with European legislation. However, what is Western for the eyes is one sentence that is found in the explanation of this law, where it is said – the problem that needs to be addressed by this law is the removal of administrative barriers to the construction of power plants that use renewable energy sources. I have already listed three things that are not removing administrative barriers, but precisely additional administrative obstacles to further serving procedures in the construction of renewable sources. I think that Serbia as a country should focus as much as possible on its natural resources that are renewable, particularly hydropotential, and that it minimises and simplifies procedures. Such solutions in the law certainly do not contribute. I believe that you will consider these amendments that go in the direction of simplified procedures, reducing deadlines and improving investment conditions, that you will accept them and, of course, improve the text of the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58552	Thank you. Your parliamentary group has eight minutes left. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58553	I thank Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and in the principle debate, I have tried to refer to the state of relations in Serbian energy for the past 30 years. So, not today, this condition is, unfortunately, the way it has been in the last 30 years. I said that in this individual debate on behalf of the SNS, I would make fundamental remarks and what we have amended to try to resolve in this law, which is that the law refuses, does not attract investors. I'll try to explain it to you in this part of my debate. You know that the current situation in Serbia is that we only have the subsidisation of investors and investors who literally raise their capacities and investors of the type in this area to give them natural goods. Once again, I have to look back at these main aspects of the state of the energy sector in the Republic of Serbia, which is that in the last ten and a little more years, that in this energy sector, I said, through various loans, donations, some loans, about 20 billion euros. To this, when it is added that electricity prices have jumped by over 600% in this period, gas prices by over 450%, and oil derivatives prices, too, by over 500% and adds that in the part I tried to bring to the least, that Serbia is losing around 1.5 billion euros because of unbuilt power plants in this area, meaning at an annual level. We come to the conclusion that in this area it has passed, I don't know how, but no matter how it is, colleagues have pointed out that something has been done in this area, but in almost two minutes, as the previous colleague said, can stop this part of the last 100 years in Serbia, and the capacity and the situation where Serbia is on the map of Europe and the world, which is in our favor, all the time and all those years has not been used. So when all of this is summed up, through this sector, somehow, it's gone and almost lost close to 50 billion euros. We from exporters, in the late 1990s, an exporter who over 20% of its production in this area exported, became an importer, with the projection, that Serbia would be in the deficit in 2020, with more than 40%. We are also a small direct contact and the purchase of gas from Russia's Gazprom, which was probably not good, so we have introduced a mediator in this business and we give that mediator 5% a year, which is about the value of about 30 million euros, 30 million is enough for some problems in the field of social issues, in the area of education, culture, to be singled out. If it wasn't for the middleman in this business, it would be between us and Russia's Gazprom. When I was talking today about critical aspects in the energy-energy sector, meaning gas sector, renewable energy sources, heat energy and oil derivatives areas, one fact that is the creation of a joint venture between Serbia and Gazprom to build South Stream, you are likely to know, Mr. Minister, that this company was founded instead of Serbia, in Switzerland. I'd like to ask you, here, to get an answer to that question. I look forward to the announcements from your resorient ministry in this area and I would like to get an answer to the question, but concrete and so precise, when the construction of these hydropower plants will begin for the next period, starting with Drina, Bistrica, or it is just another set of things that we need to bring out in public, which they will not experience, apart from the idea project, my own realization. Because the energy sector, in addition to all the failures and revenues it brings to its area, employs a large number of people and has lost both time and decades in this area and unfortunately is not a driving drive for the rest of the economy. There is one as it is and because there is no, or poorly developed, and the rest of the Serbian economy, so it is still the strongest and strongest, otherwise the different situation in the Serbian economy, with such indicators in this sector, would not really be proud. I also told you about the mining area, for the past 10 years, almost nothing has been done and that we are going to start this year and for this area importing energy from this area, we are likely to allocate about two billion euros. Public enterprises, beginning with EPS, Serbia's Elektro Network, from Serbia's Transnafte, I point out once again, were examples of the French EDF, and now they're lying corruption, from small to large. For years, authorities are changing and setting up party people who are likely to bring and profit to the parties and earn their own profits and therefore need to implement the necessary reorganisation of this sector and public enterprises in this area should not function in the future, as they have so far. I must point out that under the number one proposal of this energy law is unsettled, and I will now begin to point out to you a part of the problem that we have tried to present to you, and I hope that you will have understanding, not because of the policy of the SNS, but because of the situation in this area and the situation to which the law with the amendments of all colleagues, good amendments, is accepted and accepted and that they are truly brought to life in practice, that not only remains one in a series of laws "dead letter on paper", and that certain provisions do not know how, both legally and legally, and that they are not yet spoken. You're predicting reporting on this issue once a year, and it's indicative. I wonder where the creators live, Mr. Minister, of this law? Once a year reporting on this problem and on a regular basis. We have a situation that I'm not the only one for, but we must all agree. Neither you nor I created it, but it is a decades-old decade-long and decades-old problem in Serbia. We will now, given the current deficit in this area to report on this issue, in a burning problem for the development of the economy, for the entire sector to report once a year and on a indicative basis. We believe that this should be done several times, quarterlyly and in these analyses, normally take all aspects and end-users of the broad consumption of industry, then the situation must be taken into account in the environment, the interstate situation in this area and all with the objectives of what to do in the next period. There is no reason not to accept this amendment and this reaction, our reaction to the bill because it can only be improved in this area and we can all ask ourselves once what we are doing and why we are doing it and why we can't do some things better and point to each other's problems and possible aspects of how to eliminate these problems. The law calls for the most important issues, relating to the energy sector, to be produced under legal and other acts, and you bring it to the most of all, you, Mr. Minister. What are the most important questions that we don't think should go in such a procedure? These are the conditions and the way in which energy works. Then, contractual relations between energy operators and customers, an act on the conditions of obtaining the status of privileged producers, must be in law. He can't be in law enforcement. It's not known by this law either who, or when they issue a building permit, and you'll probably put it under legal acts, and then we wonder where our investments in the sector that can be the driving force of the entire society and the entire economy are. It cannot be done with additional acts and regulations. So, the law must, because of future investments and investors and their attention to our energy field, contain these basics. It is an obligation for the state to have a catalogue for renewable energy sources and it is the obligation of investors for renewable energy sources to build an object in full agreement with the potential available for the problem also spoke to counterpart Lapcevic. So we can't at some potential that has hydro potential and the possibility of building a five-megawatt power plant, allow the contractor to build a three-megawatt hydro power plant. We've lost two megawatts forever and we can never bring them back. These are the things that must be dealt with by law in a decade and then the responsibility of investors to be even more stringent and clear. Then you predict that you, the Minister and the Ministry set criteria for the production and use of renewable energy sources again by law. We personally think, the SNS thinks it could have entered the frameworks of this law, not the sublegal acts with which it's a question and who's going to do everything and whether it's going to be a question and who's going to know everything and whether it's going to be. It's simple, by the procedure of the law, we can't just get to know the laws, not the sublegal acts, and who reports the situation in that area. If you are given the opportunity, I am not telling you personally but the Minister for this sector and the Ministry to pass an individual act on this area, then in that area, whoever is better with the minister will solve the problems. In the sphere of these relations, corruption is easy to come by. That's why the law has to predict these things that you're predicting by passing these legal acts. I'm saying, nothing personal, not related to you, regarding the position and situation in which both the Minister and the Ministry can be found. The law was made in part of the problem as if there were no infrastructure in Serbia, as if there was no Elektro Network of Serbia, if there was no Electrical Economy of Serbia as if the electricity industry were starting from this moment on. All existing and existing capacities and resources and the situation in the area had to be respected, rather than starting from the moment as if energy began from the day of law-making. Here you will see the solutions that we have tried to change our reaction. We have spoken and many colleagues have also given attention to the energy efficiency sector and way of organising and functioning the market. However, given the situation of what was done in the previous period and that this law continues to allow the Agency for Energy Efficiency, Continuance of Work, and we are asking for the abolition of the same Agency and for the tasks of the Energy Efficiency Agency to be taken over by the Ministry. I guess the Ministry has a capacity for this kind of serious stuff from the agencies before, given that all jobs and shops are impossible and controlled and that should be the sea of police officers and officials. Then it is absolutely mandatory for it to be part of the ministry, not that the minister, besides the Ministry, checks both work obligations and tasks and perform the tasks of the Energy Efficiency Agency. The law allowed that possibility to be discussed in this area, too, for a period of two days, about the problems in this area and about the operations of the Energy Efficiency Agency. Thus, we are coming to a situation that Serbia can also reduce the imports of energy on average between 25 per cent and 40 per cent. If we had thought enough, as colleagues say, of sustainable energy sources, we would have had a situation that we had already built power plants, that we had protected our natural environment, that we had left for generations in the heritage of a healthy environment, as our people have left us. We must not ignore the fact that in this area more than 360,000 tonnes of sulphur dioxide and more than 40,000 nitrogen oxides are released annually because of the work of the thermopower plant and above the space of RS and thus create problems for generations behind us. And in principle, I said that the law is non-compliant with European directives, and you, in the light of the law, say that this law will see very rapid changes in compliance with the parts of the European directives. What's the big deal about that? Electricity trade is not considered an energy activity by this law, and we have a situation that in the electricity supply sector, as an activity, in the area of electricity, this sector knows the production, transmission, distribution and trade of electricity. The law is like that he doesn't recognize. The special chapter is an interesting chapter – an exemption from the law. Nor does this chapter allow for the growth and development of Serbian energy, but it literally keeps a stronger monopoly in this area. If you get a little deeper in this chapter, you really come to that conclusion. There is no reason to disable, say, the use of a future pipeline, for example, from third party rights if the capacities are free at that time. A particularly interesting issue is the status of Serbia's Elektroprivreda regarding the law. I really don't understand the status of Serbia's Elektroprivreda for this law. We have one small Serbian energy market and an artificial creation of two transfers. Even those living in fairy tales couldn't assume that two transfers would be created on a small energy market like this. It is evident that part of the law is probably made by order and intent after the law is passed, even possibly, Mr. Minister, perhaps you, since you have recently taken over this area, may be a divided area of distribution of who will own it. I believe you're not sure about that, but it seems like the intention of these people to put this into law. What is particularly important, and one of the colleagues also talked about, that the Serbia Power Network maintains a network of 110, voltages from 110 to a certain situation, to a certain point, and later takes over someone else and you can imagine a situation where there are no clear separations that the Serbian Electric Network worker even goes to this area of another distributor and maintains its area. Where are these boundaries of separation and why is this done? For reasons to cut costs to that other distributor. Serbia's power grid will have its own costs in the area, which is the public sector, it hits the public sector, it doesn't matter that it has costs and losses, it will continue to have a further story in this context. So I'm saying that we need to change these things in the functioning of public enterprises, especially in this area. So far, the measurements have been on the lower voltage side, and now the bill has a different situation. In view of the previous situation in Serbia, electricity voltage transformers have also been done. Do you predict that this area is being completely remounted, that is, to obtain new power and voltage transformers, and do you know how much it will cost? At the small door of the bill you introduce companies that will deal with energy distribution, I've already told you about it, and it's terrible that it wouldn't be terrible if this wasn't a matter of general interest. After all, I wonder what might be more of a general interest in Serbia. This is an activity of general interest and small electricity distributors cannot be introduced to the small door. Today's division solution is also not good. We have, say, the situation that Serbia is divided into five regions in the distribution of electricity. You think Mr. Minister the King knows about the problems in Nova Varosha? No, these are the problems of local distribution, these are the problems of local self-government, and to make things worse in this whole distribution system, we have left the former regional centres as is the administrative environment, and we have left the administration, we have directors who, if necessary, go from one party to another to protect this age of 20 to be directors. The whole administration that goes along with them. Let's just say no one wonders at Užica. The one in the King wonders, and in Uzic there is a whole system of apparatus in this area that exists when Užice was a center. The task of all of us, both you and us, responsible people, is to provide Serbian citizens with quality power supply, energy and energy at all, an adequate offer and to make the offer at sustainable prices. There's no sustainable price if we make it this way. In a principle debate this morning, I said that price formation criteria really contain large parameters and a way of explaining and forming prices in this area, even electricity, oil derivatives and gas products, and that Serbia's citizens' standards, and everything is under parol that public enterprises will suffer losses, and they have already gone so far as to lose their losses exceed 40% of the value of their capital. So, if God forbids to enter this sector, sell public enterprises, count on them to be automatically worth 40% less because of the business situation and the losses in this area. For everything there is a modus, with rising prices and losses being solved, with a loan being raised and losses being solved, but whose back is that falling on? This again falls on the back of consumers, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I told you it was lucky that in this area we respected the idea projects in the construction of the thermal power plant. Serbia's power plant would now not be addicted to an energy situation in the environment, especially in the area of renewable energy sources where we are almost not even pioneers in this business yet, and only one information has pointed out -- how many days Serbia has sun and how many areas of solar energy. We didn't do anything. Let's get into a situation once and for all to solve this area. Indeed, if you consider yourself responsible for your portfolio, and I consider myself truly a responsible MP, we must all take a serious situation in this area, because it is alarming and that all those provisions of the law, which can be the reason for corrupt activity, are eliminated from the bill and that within a few months the law does not re-examination and supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58554	National MP Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58555	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to speak as quickly as possible, because I have a little time and a lot to say. We have a system law ahead of us, but the system law that has so many holes and so many gaps and the government obviously didn't want to answer many questions. You're saying that you're going to settle it by sublegal acts within six months to a year, but then it looks, when you look at the side, that the government simply skipped to answer the hard questions, because she didn't know how to answer them, and she needs another five or six months to one year to answer them. On the other hand, this space of one year is a very large space for all types of imaginative combinations, abuses and various types of corruption. That it is not just a casual remark that says Serbia's position on the scale of those countries that have the most corruption. As an MP here who always advocates environmental protection, I will speak fully of this law from that position. Of course I don't have time to make environmental arguments, but I'll just say that every serious state, which and how it holds onto itself, must take care of renewable energy sources, as something that frees it from import or electricity or fossil fuels, on the other side of oil and gas. On the other hand, I'm totally in the opposite position of those colleagues who spoke of renewable energy sources here as something that is infinitely expensive. It may seem expensive today, but it's very payable in the long run, because prices are falling dramatically and constantly falling, they change significantly down. Here, let's say, an example. The price of solar modules per kilowatt power will be three times lower in 2012. So four years from now, three times lower. And how important it is to take care of renewable energy sources as a potential energy force later. I don't want to talk about how many people work in this area. In the EU, for example, 270,000, nearly 300,000 people work only in this area. It's for those of us who have this kind of unemployment and how important it is. Serbia is thinking pretty much about it. We have a strategy that has been adopted, which speaks of renewable energy sources, and it is very important that we continue in that direction. We, however, now use bio mass and have the arguments to use bio mass, I agree, but also how to take care of other possibilities, such as the energy of the sun, such as wind energy. About how we have to take care of it. There's little to talk about in this law. Let's get back to this law right now, so I don't get the gist I think I should say missed. First of all, in your explanation, you say that this law aims to simplify procedures and to skip certain administrative barriers, to make them simple. But I'm going to reason with you in all the places where you're actually making an even more complicated procedure and procedure that lasts longer. Let's go to article 32 first where you say you're extending your 30-day energy license to 60 days. I'd like to hear the arguments, because 30 days is an optimal time and there's really no problem with you respecting it. Furthermore, you are introducing a release of consent for small hydroelectric power plants above 500 kilowatts. Until now, this agreement was only needed for those over one megawatt. This is Article 35. In Article 33, introduce the obligation to change the energy permit in case of changes to the project. Every time these changes happen, whoever's an investor has to pay a tax. This really doesn't make sense, and I think you should take a look at this. You say - the Ministry of Finance made this proposal. This really doesn't make sense. Furthermore, you require the conclusion of a heat sales contract to get a cogeneration incentive, and this heat is mostly used by producers themselves. So that's your Article 56 point 5. And this is very illogical. There is more illogicality in that article 56. So far, the limits for obtaining the status of a privileged electricity producer, when it comes to hydroelectric power plants, have been ten megawatts. Now you're raising this to 30 megawatts. Let's be very specific. The only hydropower plants in this country that are in this ranking, which have project documentation and are located in Serbia, are Brodarevo 1 and Brodarevo 2, and these hydropower plants are already developing a Canadian firm on the Lima River near Prepolje, where you experience very much resistance from citizens, and I believe rightly. I don't live in Prijela, but I'd like to join them. As this law continues to say, you want these two hydropower plants to get the status of a privileged producer, which further means that in the next 12 years everything they produce will be bought at affordable prices. If we turn that into numbers now, the annual production of these two hydropower plants will be 185,000 megawatts of class, which means that Serbian citizens will pay between 155m and 200m euros for 12 years. Don't you think this is a large number, and it must be paid by citizens of Serbia? It seems to me that this is really an enormous amount of money. What I have to ask is a question, because I've already mentioned to this Canadian firm, do you write this law for someone very specific? It seems that way. Before you answer me negatively, because I suppose you'll say so, I must direct you, Mr. Minister, if you haven't seen it, and it has seen 70% of Serbian citizens, a very interesting video of youtube where the former secretary is, I really don't know his status now, Dusan Rakic, former Secretary of State of State of the Ministry Peter Skundric lobbying at a session of the Prepolje Assembly for this Canadian firm, speaking so many lies, where he's being denied at the same time by the owner or director of the canatical firm, deny every thing he says. It seems to me, when you look at that video, that you and I will be able to talk and that you will tell me – it seems that this law has been written for someone concrete. Last time Mrs. Comic spoke and we argued whether one or two were responsible for one, this law was written for the Canadian firm. There's still a lot of interest. This law can't answer what's wrong with wind power. We can't see what investors in the area are planning and what they can expect. At this point, I know of up to four companies that are members of the Serbian Wind Energy Association, which intend to invest one and a half billion euros in these projects. For them, this law, according to what I know from public hearing, is overly complicated and they won't find a chance to get into all this. I need to remind you of what the EU directives are, and we have translated them into our strategy, all of happiness, because this strategy takes care of environmental protection and it is very important, I guess, to take care of it, not to change it every three years, for some part of the strategy, and we are just changing what is good for us. I need to remind you to come back and read what they wrote, not really you, but the government before you, in your own strategy for the development of this area. It seems to me that we have a problem with ourselves, and this problem was mentioned by my colleague Lapcevic, when he spoke about hydroelectric power plants on Ibra, that we gave the Italians the opportunity to make money at the expense of our potentials. I'll finish, seeing as I'm done with my time, just quoting Dr Branislav Djordjevic, everyone knows who Mr. Djordjevic, the professor of the Faculty of Civil Engineering, is involved. He says, "Who gives such objects under the concession clearly declares himself a nerd. Nobody builds power plants with their own money, borrows them. That's why we have to take loans and build ourselves, not to let others do it or to use this in the campaign." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58556	Thank you. On the basis of the provision of Article 96, point 1 of the fourth and Article 98 of the first indents. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, no one answers the word. I find that no word has been reported on the lists of MPs' groups. Before I conclude, do Mr. Secretary want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58557	First, to apologize, I think Mr. Andric noticed it, I intended to comment on every discussion you have, because as a minister, since we already know each other, I don't have any illusion at all, even when I'm talking about a job in the travel industry, which I know very well, that I'm the smartest. I want to hear from you, but we agreed here, for more efficient work, to say all that in the end. First I'm going to comment on the heads of Parliament's groups briefly, and then I'm going individually, because my associates prepared the part that I wasn't there for, because it was the government's session and we were just making a decision on the energy agency. That's why I had to leave. So, thank you for supporting Mr. Stamenkovic, I will not comment since you are "my", as the opposition MPs would say. I won't comment on George Milicevic either. I have to comment on Bajru Omeragic. I'm not a man who's going to say he's not my resort, in some things he's absolutely right, not a theme for this session. Now I take the obligation, he is not present, that and the situation in the Stavalj mine, which leads my colleague Oliver Dulic, and also the road that is directly mine, from Tutin to Novi Pazar, I will let him know when we meet. So, two Djurics discussed extremely correctly and positively. Right away, in order to avoid being criticized by radicals, from their discussions, my co-workers from the Ministry have accepted a large number already today. That is why I am also criticised by some people who are handling the Assembly, that I am quick to accept the amendments you are giving, and then we cannot adopt them for those or these reasons, but much has already been translated into amendments, and that will be accepted, just like this amendment, I return to Mrs Vojić-Markovic and Mr Lapčević, 32, 33, 35 and even 56. And that's what people think, that they accept it all. If the MPs say 30 is a big number, we'll put it down a little bit. As for Mr Mica Rogovic, I have to deny a few things in the first reporting, even now in the second reporting, and they are not in line with the EU's basic provisions. That's why we've been doing the addition of the 2004 law, and you're absolutely right about that. So, by law and by sublaw we now regulate some new areas and relations, in order to further develop the energy system and because of the international obligations undertaken. I'm not going to talk about the EU, so Mrs. Comic won't criticise me, but that was exactly why we passed this law. So, as far as possible, everything is consistent with those norms. I'm willing to give you the details, if necessary. As for the Italians you spoke of, Mr. Rogovic, you and Mr. Lapcevic, it is true that the Lim river was given to the Canadians, these are two hydropower plants: "Brodarevo I" and "Brodarevo II", which is what Mrs. Vojić-Markovic was talking about. It is true that there is a pre-negotiated agreement with the Italian firm "Seci" on Ibra for a dozen locations and that is what our EPS firm did. For now it's in that status. Of course, the problems Mrs Vojić-Markovic spoke of, which we have downstairs, are being solved, we will see how. It's true we've done it so far. As a man who has always advocated that our companies, our workers, are working, because there was one criticism about how realistic it is that we expect to employ our businesses on these great hydro potentials, I have to go back to my field now, if we weren't the northern arms of Corridor 10, the way it is, they would not be competing with Mr Stefanovic in the south today and have a chance to get two jobs. So we need to define ourselves in that part and politically. I can't, and I won't accept that our people can't do the job, even if they don't know it. For this country, it's invaluable value that on the projects we have in our country, including energy, and right away, I personally think that energy is our greatest development opportunity, that our businesses don't work. I talked about it one night in Nis with Mr. Lapčević and talked about it. We didn't get to the bottom of this, but let me tell you right now, unfortunately, there are other problems. As far as Mr. Mihajlovic is concerned, he is not here, but in essence, in his inspired presentation, and first of all, that I would not deal with affairs – Kolubara, the energy mafia, etc., one thing is very important, of course, everything has to do with the elections, but this law, because he claims this is because of the election, we don't bring this about the election. What we're doing right now, we need to bring in to try to regulate our relationship in our energy. As far as individual discussions are concerned, I have already answered some questions, Mrs Comic has a priority, of course, because she has asked several questions and I can hardly answer all these questions. My associates have prepared several answers. The question is, what is this new law, Mrs. Komic? One, the opening of the energy market in a neat way. Customers can freely choose the supplier, gradually open the market, and after 2015 households and small customers will have guaranteed electricity prices, if that is enough for Mrs. Komic. Under two, renewable sources that are participating today, a young colleague has now drawn us about the ratio of renewable sources in our country's overall energy potential, and then how much of this is only when it comes to electricity. So now renewables are participating in our country's overall energy situation with 20%. That's a little bit. That's why he won't write or write on the ballot, and we'll still think about what the price is. You know our country's path to that part of the job. The third answer to the question of Mrs. Komic and most of you – simpler procedures for investment, of course, with regulatory bodies and agencies that will control prices and have a congregation. Now I answer to all what Mrs. Comić asked, the mini plants have one kilowatt hour for 7.8 to 9.7 euro cents; biomass 11.4 to 13.6 euro cents per kilowatt hour; biogas 12 to 16 euro cents; deposit gas, which has very little, 6.7; wind 9.5; sun 23 and geothermal energy 7.5. The combined production of electricity is about 8.2 to 10.4. So, at these prices today, we can make electricity and use it one way or another. Of course, it still doesn't condition to be used in full scope. As for the wind, it is the most expensive, but regardless, I agree with Mrs Vojic-Markovic that in that part of the state she must intervene. I think there are already several permits given under the old law, especially in the Vršačka area where these winds are the most favourable. The answer to some other questions from the MPs individually. All MPs of the Radical Party, from Serbia's Živanovic, Moma Duvnjak, Dragan Stevanovic, Nikola Savić, Milorad Buha, a little bit of Buha was not clear to me, I was not there when he presented it, but I realized what the problem was, Srete Perić, Bozidar Delic, I will stick to Boži Delic, so all of you, since there are most of your amendments, will almost half of these amendments will be adopted, so I will not comment on God Delic, so all of you, since there are most of your amendments, will be adopted. Boza Delic, I have to answer, the quality control of the oil derivative placed on the market is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Trade, about what you were saying whether, who, how, etc. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy isn't here, we're just prescribing quality, and they're looking at market control and, as you say, 300 million might have profits. As for Mr Mica Rogovic's remarks, it is foreseen that this should be monitored once a year in the Assembly and that the Assembly on the implementation of these projects is being reported. I have nothing more than to thank and not promise again, so you can take my word for it, but, as my colleague Ljilja says, about 35 to 40% of the 119 amendments will be incorporated into this law. I thank you once again and apologize for not being there all the time in the congregation, but believe me, just like you, I don't know anything more about energy than you do. I know a lot about roads, but not energy. Therefore, I will make every effort with my associates to make this law as clear as possible. Once again, I think you know very well, my friend Shami is laughing, of course, that energy is our greatest development chance, then agriculture, then traffic and of course this country has to have the Ministry of Energy and Mining. As outgoing minister, if I leave, wait for Rogovic, don't look forward to it, that's what I'm going to suggest. Of course, it's the acquisition of certain other circumstances political, but what to do, that's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58558	I thank Mr. Minister to your associates and to you. I am concluding a principled search on the Energy Law proposal. There will be an opportunity to continue the debate in particular with a dialogue that results in the correction of the text of the law. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Completion of the Air Traffic Law you have adopted a bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and is distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, belong one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group of the SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenković, MP of the PUPS; MP Zoran Kasalovic, MP of the SPS - JS; MP Zoran Shami, MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica; MP Milan Avramović, MP of the SRS. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the Proposer's representative, Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58559	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the basic reason for the preparation of the Amendments and Supplements Act is to continue to comply with EU law, as well as to meet the recommendation of the European Commission's Annual Report for 2010 to speed up candidate status. It seems to me that the Air Traffic Act, which entered into force on 20 October 2010, created a presumption of harmonisation from national legislation with EU rules. However, harmonisation of regulations cannot be achieved at once, but it represents a process that takes place through transition periods. The most significant changes and additions of the Air Traffic Act concern: 1) the amendments to the provisions on the investigation of accidents and serious accidents in the air and 2) from the confidence of the inspection supervision of the Directorate of the Civil Aviation of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law provides for the establishment of an accident and serious accident research centre as special organisations responsible for carrying out professional tasks relating to the organisation and implementation of security investigation of accidents and serious civil aviation accidents, as well as for the collection and analysis of data of importance for aviation safety and the proposal of measures to prevent new accidents. The Research Centre is functionally independent of the Directorate, Resorship Ministry and other bodies that have responsibilities in the Air Force. This centre is the core of a future special organisation that will be responsible for investigating accidents in all areas of traffic. The proposed changes are also conditioned by changing the definition of accidents and serious incidents in Annex 13 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, whose standards the Republic of Serbia is obliged to apply, as well as by adopting a new European regulation in this area. Regulation (EU) No 996/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council on research and prevention of accidents and accidents in civil aviation aimed at improving aviation safety, achieving a high level of efficiency, expeditionivity and quality of security research in European civil aviation, prevention of accidents and accidents in the future, including the establishment of a European network of bodies for safety research in civil aviation. This amendment will also implement specific recommendations from the European Commission's 2010 annual report to speed up candidate status for EU membership. Another important issue that the bill regulates is the trust of inspection supervision to the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. The merger of air inspection and verification powers constitutes the realisation of the international obligation undertaken and is justified in the generally accepted rules of international law and certified international contracts which are part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 194 and 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that confirmed international agreements should not be contrary to the Constitution, and the laws and other general acts adopted in the Republic of Serbia should not be contrary to the approved international agreements and to the general rules of international law. 1) The basis for trusting the Directorate's inspection supervision as a public agency stems from an ECAA agreement concluded by the Republic of Serbia with the European Community on 29 June 2006 and confirmed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The regulations contained in Annex 1 of this Agreement oblige the Republic of Serbia to apply, through the transition arrangements, those regulations currently contain provisions which unequivocally give rise to the obligations of the air authority which issued a specific certificate or assurance to the air carrier (which appears to be following the procedure of verification) to carry out inspection controls on the holder of such a certificate, to examine the implementation of laws and other regulations through direct insight into the operations and conduct of natural and legal persons and, depending on the results of the surveillance, to impose appropriate measures. The proposed material solutions were created as an expression of the alignment of our legal order with the international obligations arising from the above mentioned – the Chicago Convention and its annexes. 2) Confidence of inspection supervision to the Directorate is a comprehensive solution for the fact that the Directorate of these tasks has been successfully carried out without interruption since its establishment, since it has the high-level and educated personnel of air traffic inspectors. 3) In the event of giving up the proposed solution, the Republic of Serbia would be prevented from moving to another transition period of the ECAA agreement, resulting in the fact that our aircraft operators are unable to achieve all the benefits arising from this agreement, preventing them from being equally involved in the common European aviation market and free to participate in the European aviation market. Four - adoption of the proposed solution will also implement some of the recommendations set out in the European Commission's 2010 annual report to speed up candidate status for EU membership. Namely, creating assumptions for harmonisation from national legislation with international agreements, international aviation regulations, standards and technical rules and the adoption of international aviation practices including the harmonisation of our law in the field of aviation with European regulations, regulations and directives is a prerequisite for our successful inclusion in European and world aviation integration processes and one of the key priorities in the EU accession process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58560	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Whether or not the committees in charge want a word. No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Zoran Shami first called. I'm asking the others to sign up. Something's wrong with the system. Mr. Shami, I'm gonna have to ask you to wait for the technical service to help us. All the microphones are on, and there's probably going to be a stenogram problem, and then, since there's advertising, it looks like the others checked in, obviously, there's something wrong. You can go from the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58562	Once again, I thank the President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, me and the DSS are very clear reasons why it is necessary to bring amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act. Let me, first of all, and for my fellow Members and for the sake of the public, say a few principles. If there is a branch of traffic that is subject to a large number of long-term rules and conventions, international rules and conventions, it is certainly air traffic, for course completely understandable reasons. We've seen it from the proposal, two key changes. It is one thing to form an entirely independent body -- a research centre, because the jobs of researching air accidents cannot be left to existing authorities, such as the directorate, or the competent ministry, but the body must act completely independent of others, it is simply an international regulation that should be respected and I will say something more about it later. The second is what, if memory does not deceive me, DS MPs pointed out when we passed the Air Traffic Act, which is that the competent ministry cannot take over the affairs of inspection oversight. Of course, it turns out it's true, and you're taking these jobs right now to the directorate's office. The DSS MPs have, by the way, often been categorically against it, by the way, by the time some new independent body was formed, because that means, let me say, spending additional funds in the budget. Otherwise, I think, as well as my colleagues at the DSS, that at least a third of the existing agencies are simply excess. But in this case, we support the establishment of a research centre, which, I repeat, must be fully independent of both directorates and the government's competent ministry. I'll get back to that. Let me say one more thing. The minister read here something that is actually the end of the story, that this is a alignment with EU acts. No, this is a consensus with conventions that exist much longer than the EU exists and that apply not only to EU member states and not only to countries that possibly want to join the EU, it also applies to countries that do not think of entering the EU, such as the EU. Norway, Switzerland, Russia, etc., apply literally to the territory of Europe as a whole, and we really have no choice but to comply with a large number of existing conventions in the area of air traffic, the way it is organised, controlled, etc. Now, Mr. Minister will see, the DSS has submitted two amendments to this bill. It's essentially one amendment, the other it's just a consequence of that one. I'll explain what's going on right now. I think it's very important that this amendment be adopted. In fact, the bill provides for: firstly, to organise an air traffic accident research centre, which is the office, to be the director of the centre, so-called. Chief investigator, he has to be considered a director of an independent organisation, and then as the crown of all that, you predict that he is appointed by the government on a proposal from the Prime Minister. So, from the story that it's an independent institution, I'm sorry, under such circumstances, there's nothing. In that regard, we're all interested in that center as little as possible. It'd be best if he didn't have to do anything. Everyone would be happy if the air traffic accidents didn't happen. But if we want there to be an independent body for justifiable reasons, then that body, the way we choose the first person of that body, must be so that it guarantees that this body will be independent and cannot be appointed by the government, I don't mean just the current government, any government. We've suggested something that seems to me to be a panda, you know, we've formed more independent bodies from different areas and, as a rule, the main people of these independent bodies are elected by the Assembly. We have suggested that the main investigators select the Assembly, on a proposal from the committee responsible, on the basis of a public competition, which would list all the details that you have foreseen, that these must be people whose qualifications guarantee that they can successfully carry out the job. I'm wasting my time in the debate on one amendment, but I think that's the key part of the story, because if you don't change this, then the whole story about so-called. An independent body falls into the water, it's hard to imagine. I don't see any difference between that and the government forming a commission if anything happens, some kind of accident, etc. And that the Department of Traffic Affairs is in charge of inspection and everything else, which is otherwise prohibited by national conventions for the simple reason that the Minister of Traffic, whoever he is, is a member of the Government. Therefore, it is clear that the main investigators will be elected by the government, but will likely have a major impact on the competent ministry for its election. For these reasons, I think the Assembly is a better place for the simple reason that the work of the congregation is far more transparent than the work of the government. It's still under the public eye. There is always an opposition in the congregation that will point to any irregularities, etc. That's why I think it's a key question of this law. Everything else in the law is not controversial. It is not disputed that it is necessary to transfer inspection to the Directorate, to form a new independent body, and these are practically changes in the law, unless you exempt that little more precise definition of what an air traffic accident means. Please, the DSS had the best intentions when she wrote that amendment. This second amendment is technically the result of the first. I ask you to seriously consider this amendment because I think it essentially corrects the law. Otherwise, the DSS, I repeat, does not question the need to adopt these amendments and additions because we consider our international commitment. I don't agree with your comment here, we read what your associates wrote to you, it's not the EU story, that story is more than twenty years old from the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58563	Thank you, Mr. Shami. Dear People's MPs, we're going to have to take a 15-minute break, the communication system is wrong. It's simple, it's necessary to reset and can't go faster than 10 minutes. We'll continue our work at 17.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58564	I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament to enter the National Assembly session room, so that we can continue our work after we reset the electronic system. I ask the MPs to enter the session hall, so that we can continue our work and ask the National Assembly to inform Minister Milutin Mrkonjic that the technical problems have been resolved and that we can continue the session. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, after the time needed to repair the technical shortcomings, we continue our work in the afternoon session. The word has a National MP, Siniša Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58565	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, the amendments and additions of the Air Transport Act are a final solution to all assumptions for the full harmonisation of national legislation and EU rules, as well as of all world regulations that unconditionally regulate the issue of air traffic, and via the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with respect and application of the highest standards of security and security, primarily of people, technical means and goods in air traffic. This law finally regulates the issue of legal position, responsibility and competence of the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. These laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the law, make the Directorate an agency with a clear set of powers and clear powers. We think that this is a good solution, and our assessment is as parliamentary groups, that all the proposed solutions in this bill, which have been created as a regular expression of the compliance of our legal order with the generally accepted international obligations imposed by the Convention on International Civil Aviation and the International Convention on Co-operation in the area of security and air navigation from so on. Eurocontrols since December 1960, as well as any other international acts adopted to this day, have practically met all the conditions requested, so that the Directorate can finally carry out its post as required. We understand that it is for the first time formalising the functional separation of air navigation service providers from legal regulators, which is very important, just to establish the national control body of the Republic of Serbia in air navigation. We think that conditions are being created to finally reorganise the airspace of the Republic of Serbia, by defining all the functional blocks that are now being defined by these amendments and amendments to the law. The law will certainly create the conditions for improving the quality of services, increasing the number of service operations at our airports, increasing the number of flights in Serbia's airspace, while strengthening the overall air traffic management system. Serbia certainly also enters the ranks of countries where the capacity of services and the number of passengers is increased by 6% to 10% each year. Such an increase rate must be supported by the state, taking into account all the measures in order to improve our professional potential and technical systems, reduce risks and improve the service. We are aware of the fact that this law, i.e. amendments and additions to the laws, has also caused gender tones in the professional and social public, which the minister also spoke of, above all, because of the individual solutions offered and for which it has responded, is necessary in all organisations that follow this action. A number of amendments have also been tabled that are closer to settling some of the technical issues that change and supplement laws. The PUPS parliamentary group believes that a national civil aviation security programme that can finally be done in agreement with the Convention on International Civil Aviation must fully comply with European and world standards in order to improve the acceptable level of security in Serbia's civil aviation. We also agree, and we will support the obligation to set up a security system, which is a mandatory part of the Management Manual, with the agreement of the Air Traffic Directorate. The territory of the former Yugoslavia, and thus Serbia's territory must be harmonised as part of a framework for the creation of a single European sky, which Serbia has committed by confirming the ECCA agreement. We support the Minister's insistence that, from the point of view of aviation security, forbidden zones, the conditions of the forbidden zone and the dangerous zones are determined by the Minister's solution, and not by the government's solution so far, which would give the Directorate open or free hands to carry out all the obligations adopted by the European Directives. The PUPS Group believes that, when determining the competence of the RHMZ and its characteristics as a special organisation, we should also determine, as the authority of the state administration, responsible for weather forecasting and air meteorological conditions and to establish additional precautions, by making it necessary to equip it with a technical and specific act on a strict co-operation with the World Hydrometeorological Organisation. The certificate for the provision of air meteorological conditions of the Republic hydrometeorological institution may only be obtained if it meets the prescribed technical organisation conditions, which must be confirmed by the international community, making it available automatically to the Directorate. We pay particular attention to all the issues raised in the amendments and amendments to the law. We would like to note that a statement on the compliance of our regulation with EU rules presented a high degree of compliance of the basic law with the amendments and additions of the law to all the directives given by the EU, or the European Commission, which is commendable. In that sense, we want you to succeed until the end of your assignments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58566	Six minutes and 11 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58567	Thank you. At the end of last year, we passed a new Air Traffic Act, and in this way replaced a law that was anachron and, by general assessment, limited by the development of air traffic in our country. What is important is that the new law is fully applicable, it is applied and already provides certain excellent results. However, he also showed certain shortcomings. I think it's a good thing we're correcting some shortcomings with these changes and additions in time, because that way, in the law, we're going to define more clearly all the specifics that this law deals with. First of all, I mean airports, airport services, environmental protection and, of course, in accordance with European standards, the work of the Civil Aviation Directorate. Safety and safety in air traffic are not just a trend, they are primarily an imperative and a need. Unfortunate events in the previous decade point to the seriousness and need to pay particular attention and therefore necessary and permanent changes to the safety directive and their promotion. They're never rigorous enough, because they really protect people's lives. The application of the new law can be said that it has already made it possible to meet at the top of the European Air Force because certain analyses say that air traffic has the smallest number of accidents and the smallest number of victims and, of course, it is important to maintain such a trend. It is possible to maintain only with a consistent application of the law in this area. The seriousness of the treatment of every type of traffic in our country is also said only the Ministry of Infrastructure and now energy, master of the traffic development plan. In this context, this master is defined by the categorization of the airport which includes three types of airports – primary, secondary and territorial. The Belgrade International Airport "Nikola Tesla" and "Constantin Veli" in Nis belong to the category of primarys, while secondary airports in Kralje, Batajnica, Bora, Užica and Vrsac are intended for small sports planes. It is important to say that this master plan provides that there are about 20 airports in Serbia, of which only four or five would be in place to land large planes, and the others would be so-called. business, for the purposes of economic activity. We believe that these are very important plans that will enable, for example, a Bor, as a strong industrial centre, to be trafficked by the countries that invest in its development, and I would personally like such an airport to live as soon as possible in Ečka near Zrenjanin, because Zrenjanin is also a city that was once a major industrial centre in that great Yugoslavia. I hope it will be in the future. The development of a regional network of airports, together with regional integration, certainly offers certain perspectives in economic development, and in particular offers some perspectives for less developed municipalities. Better use of traffic facilities is possible only by investing in the reconstruction of existing and construction of new air, road and rail facilities, of course, as well as by connecting them. The transformation of small, sports or military airports itself will lead to improved travel infrastructure and any other infrastructure in the area of these airports. For this reason, the SPS-JS parliamentary clubs find it very important that the infrastructure of the Nikola Tesla airport in Belgrade improves and connects with the relevant infrastructure above all when it comes to rail and road traffic. This means building railway, passenger and cargo stations to increase the traffic of goods and passengers. We also consider it very important from the national importance of building the railway from Batajnica to the airport "Nikola Tesla". The Civil Aviation Act, and in particular the Open Sky Agreement, is one significant step, I would say, with the adoption and application of a new air traffic law that opened up the possibility of meeting the very rigorous conditions of American air inspections in terms of getting category one, which means at this point we can apply for flights to America. This is very important, with the finding and the fact that Belgrade still lacks direct flights, which will come as a need for progress in European integration. The Open Sky Agreement allows other companies to land and take off and it goes towards improving and stimulating competition, which should certainly speed up the issue of flights to the city of Belgrade. The amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act remove the latest objections that were made, and above all that was not clearly defined by the body and its obligations, rights and jurisdiction in the investigation of accidents. By defining the accident and serious accident research center, we have a clearly defined organ, professional people who will at any moment be able to respond to the task and challenge in this very important area of human safety. The work of the Civil Aviation Directorate has been organised in accordance with all international instruments, conventions, resolutions, standards and recommendations and participation in world organisations and is certainly an initial step towards EU integration in the field of air traffic. To conclude - the airspace and market are open to new operators, the Civil Aviation Act, which applies the first phase of the Open Sky Agreement, gives us new opportunities to highlight and improve, above all in the field of aviation, which is certainly an impulse for new economic flows and for our exposure in the world. Due to all of this, the SPS-JS parliamentary club will support the amendments and additions of the Air Traffic Act, as it improves primarily the quality and safety of our air traffic according to the most modern standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58568	Seven minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The speech is attended by MP Milan Avramovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I must put it this way, because of unhealthy ambition and the desire to join the EU, to fulfil the ten European commands contained in the European Commission's report, which have been set up to advance 40/3 JJ/L Serbia towards EU candidate status, we were given today in the assembly proposal and this task, to discuss amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act by emergency procedure. Not wanting to caricate myself as it does not say, this EU blindness has led us to enable market liberalisation to the extent that the only air carrier that exists in Serbia, which is JAT, is at risk of entering a race with far better air carriers or in translation - to let it run down water, to fail 100%. That's why I would call this law completely different, and it could be called a law on the definitive destruction of domestic aviation and I explained in a few sentences why. What is also mentioned in the report here in the explanation, which is why this law is passed, that is because of the government's action plan. I will remind you that the government's action plan has been drawn up by a group of political parties, which the people did not choose, which translates into a political decision, ending the obligations of ten European commands, to get candidate status before the elections. This would allow the political parties that are now in power that what they have spoken in some way again to show voters, again evidence that we have already slowly entered the pre-election campaign and that we have obligations that we have. which are imposed on us by the European Commission we are slowly fulfilling. Whether we get candidate status or not, it's an open question, but this law thanks to most and strange mathematics, as most of us are made, against the will of citizens, we will be able to leave for the liberalisation of the market in Serbia's territory and destroy the only JAT airline. What is also unclear whether this law will solve the problems identified by Eurocontrol from 17 and 21 November 2008 in which it encountered 29 items that it analysed and none of them went from negative to positive and made it clear to the state of Serbia, to say our air force. What is also in the explanation is that Serbia's strategic goal is to join the European Union. I will also remind you that all the first ten members of the European Union were not the strategic goal of joining the European Union, but of strengthening the economic power of their own country, and this began from France, Germany, the Benelux country, Italy, when they first made an agreement on the exploitation and sale of coal and steel and when they made the agreement, everyone took care of the interests of their own country. Today in Serbia, no one cares about the interests of their own country and when another one of these agreements was concluded, and this is an agreement to improve security and increase profits in airspace and traffic, each member had its own conditions, from these conditions the ICEAA agreement that we adopted last year was created. That's another one, you know why, we sold the Russians JAT, final proof that the European Community wants only for itself, not for us, by making it impossible for one giant who has the youngest fleet, which is the Russian fleet, whose average is up to five years old, to buy or privatise JAT and thus prevent Serbia from having a safe airline. It's also the opposite of the European fluid you're referring to here. It is clear that no one in the European Union fears old JAT planes, good pilots, good cabin staff, but fears five million Serbs displaced around the world. Of the five million Serbs, surely a million airways come to the country once a year, and that is what gives the guarantee, safe work to JAT and safe work to the one who should take over the liberalisation and choke JAT with his offers, and we are all witnesses of a free air transport campaign, billboards across cities across Serbia, foreign businesses that need to reverse JAT to prevent it, not to be liberalised and in the same position, and if it is on their own ground, but to disable it with the number of passengers that it cannot function. That is why the problem, I will remind you in Bulgaria, is a similar example, when Bulgaria entered the EU, it immediately banned their transportation flight, they opened the company with Russian planes in Serbia. Our directorate has granted permission to operate this company. Since Serbia is not in the EU when it enters agreements and ICEAA, it has made it possible for Serbia to enter faster than Bulgaria and thus Bulgaria has lost its air carrier in Serbia, because it is the same directorate that granted the permit, and it took away the permit for the privilege it has been granted. In some ways, it is felt that the monopoly was made precisely for those reasons to prevent good airlines from doing the job, the best way, so that it could be good for the citizens of Serbia, not just for the citizens of Europe or for companies from Europe who are planning to take over the airspace above Serbia, who have done so in some ways. What is problematic in the law itself is the financing of the Commission, the centre, the lead investigator, and we will enter that analysis once the debate is in particular, as financed by the Centre. It is said that authorities and staff inspectors at the ministry will be taken over, their incomes will be moved to the Centre. I will remind you that the salaries in the Directorate are up to 7,000 euros and 300 to 400 euros in the ministry. Whoever has that salary height is successful at the Ministry. I'll remind you that it says here in the law, from paying the penalty to fund the Centre itself, which doesn't mean that you'll have an advanced budget structure, because you don't know when who's going to commit the offence and what puts the Centre itself into question, whether it can finance itself or not, even though there's a point that it's going to be financed from the budget. The budget financing relates to members of the commission to be proposed by the government's chief investigator. If we are talking about an independent body that needs to work, as stated in the law, serious accidents, because it was taken over from the bill, i.e. Recommendations, not even the law, then we question one fact. How independent the commission will be if the main investigator is appointed by the Government, if the lead investigator forms a commission and proposes to the Government again, if the government is involved with the budget to pay both the Commission and the Centre itself and the lead investigator and its deputy, who are appointed and not elected by the competition, the question of validity and at all the work of the Centre itself, with the obligation, the excuse, the legal norm under which the law today is in the Assembly Hall. I would also remind you, Mr. Minister, that in the EU Member States the ministry and the inspection of the ministry is an independent body that has more rights than any other body, agency or company, in which the director or chief investigator with the status of the director of the company, rather than the official status of office, which has powers. It cannot be responsible for its work for anyone, and we have the best example of how it is responsible for its work, the director of the Directorate, who receives bills on money consumption, how he employs people, how he chooses jobs without systematicisation, and how the budget is created for consumption, the one who returns from the organization, which is intended to buy vehicles, appliances and everything that is necessary to the Directorate, and not private service vehicles and the employment of his party staff, the financing of board members and everything else, to which money is spent. What I would suggest to you, since I see the EU directive as such, and you feel free to suggest that they too choose the lead investigator and thus remove suspicion of corruption. I believe it will then be far smaller than corruption, when it comes to Bojan Kristo and everyone else who is very recognizable to the Serbian public because of their criminal activities both within the Directorateate and within the framework of JAT. Since the law is called about the definitive destruction of a domestic airline, the reason for it is written on the seventh side of the law, so that citizens can understand it, I will read only one sentence. It is said to "open domestic air services markets for EU air carriers and create favourable market opportunities for domestic air carriers within the common European aviation area, are one of the benefits that a full implementation of the ICEE agreement should bring". Now, what he needs to bring. Just to explain, he needs to bring in new companies that are going to choke JAT. It's proof that this law here is not intended for citizens. This is proof that this law has a completely different, firstly, spreads the administration, secondly, by systematizing jobs and the systematization rule, Mr. Minister, which was adopted in March of the month, there are no such provisions under this law. I can interpret it by being an independent agency, but there are provisions of those other sectors that you form and precisely within the ministry that should increase the number of employees, and it's already increased from 170 to 200, plus those two administrations and plus this, then the IMF instruction to reduce the administration is not valid. Then EU directives are not in force. Then all that does not please you or do not please you, it does not apply, and what pleases you, that is. what needs to be fulfilled in order to settle some obligations in the pre-election campaign, it must be implemented through the assembly law and in the procedure. While I am already with the agreement, signed on 29 June 2006, which is a legal norm for the adoption of this amendment and supplementation, it says in an explanation, I would ask the question – who has authorized V.D. Director of the Directorate to sign that agreement at all in 2006? We only ratified the agreement three years later, in 2009, in the Assembly, thanks to the ruling majority. So the state of Serbia was represented by one V.D. The director of the Directorate was in office for three years, something we later ratified. Here, now, in 2011, after 2009, we again apply the provisions signed in 2006 six years later. In fact, the signature signed in Brussels by Mr. Dragoljub Trčević. What is generally known in this situation, in EU countries, when it comes to the economic crisis and when it comes to protecting competition and protecting the market, all governments invest in their companies and make the best possible protection of their market, making it impossible for their businesses to fail. This is not the case with us and this is what is more than problematic, that is what needs to set off the alarm in the state of Serbia, as well as in the ministry itself to help domestic businesses in all branches. We talked today about energy, as well as aviation or airlines in Serbia, which can only survive with the help of the state, no different. I would also draw attention to the bad translation of this law. There are differences what accentes are, what they are, or how you want to apply them, what is the accident with passengers on board and what is an accident without passengers. We intervened with that large number of amendments. I would be pleased if you would just evaluate it and not be like last time, to adopt a large number of SRS amendments by handing over the same amendments by the government, especially when it comes to air traffic. The lead investigator elects a commission to propose to the government and government on the basis of a certain criterion sets the commission for a year. Mr. Grouchy, don't give me God, but no one can know a year in advance how many accidents there will be and whether they will be. We'd like them to be gone, but since the criteria for determining the commission are such that, compared to the accident, the Commission determines the severity of the accident, the size and everything else, you can't know a year in advance what's going to happen in the airspace, what's going to happen at the airport, on the runway or anywhere else. So we tried to correct that text of the law through the amendments. What I would also point out is the question of KIM in this whole story. It is said this - signing an agreement is without certain entry into EU membership against the interests of domestic aviation and national interests in the fight to preserve KIM. Why did I say that? Before any debate, I had the will and desire to mention on an open table, but we had no opportunity in a public debate, to ask why the Republic of Iceland is holding airport flight control in Pristina at KIM? Who is responsible for not respecting the provisions of the military-technical agreement and Resolution 1244 and for restoring the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia over the airspace above KIM? Now these powers are being illegally taken over by Eulex, which is known to everyone. Airport flight control in Pristina, which covers KIM space up to 5,000 metres, is opposed to Resolution 1244, held by the Republic of Iceland. We have with them the signature of this agreement, and look at the role they play on KIM, in breach of our territorial integrity. They charge for services, the area above 5,000 metres is closed to civilian aircraft overflights and is in the jurisdiction of KFOR, which now goes against all rules into the jurisdiction of the Eulex. UNMIK's presence as an equal partner in the conclusion of an interstate multilateral agreement calls for Security Council Resolution 1244. In that resolution, there is no provision giving such a mandate to the mission. That's what we need to be alarmed so we don't act like one. In particular, there is no possibility of passing it on to Eulex. Point 11b) The resolution stipulates that the basic responsibility of civil international presence includes the exercise of basic civilian and administrative functions, where necessary and how long it is needed, and that the annex of two Resolutions writes nicely in point 10) – a military-technical agreement is determined to specify additional modalities, including the roles of the Serbian staff in Kosovo. The military-technical agreement has temporarily given jurisdiction over the airspace to the KFOR military force commander. Article 2 of point C of the Agreement sets out the possibility of transferring responsibilities in the airspace to control the usual air activities of the relevant institutions of Serbia. So, it says nice, Mr. Grouchy, in agreement. The problem is, this government doesn't have the will. The problem is that this government has an action plan in which it wants to keep its pre-election promises and through the laws comes the EU candidate status, which will reverse us by liberalising the market, because we are not ready to compete with them. A 30-year-old plane can't be measured with a five-and-ten-year-old plane, it's just not possible. Then the cost of transporting that airline is far cheaper, which means we're going to choke our domestic air carrier. I also want to say that the Ministry's inspection is a professional person, inspectors, that experts who know their jobs and who have been in the ministry for a long time. There are those politically similar who are appointed here, appointed, but the chief inspectors of the Air Force are far more quality in the ministry than anyone in the Directorate, let alone the director of the Directorate. By this law, you have allowed a simple inspector of the ministry, who has a profession, to seek the consent of a designated person who can also be a party man outside the profession, to withdraw someone's license. It's a room for manipulation and it's an amendment, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, that needs to be resolved. Still, the inspection is an inspection. Yet the appointed face is named without competition. However, the expert staff who passed certain examinations are certain when the primary ministry with a particular job internship is certain to guarantee that the work will be done properly. We're not gonna support this law. First, this law was passed before time. Secondly, we don't have the conditions to meet it. Third, he is a norm that is imposed in these 10 European commands. It does not oblige us not to help our own citizens, Serbian citizens to move better by air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58570	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to a part of the session where the right to take part in the debate is given to MPs, according to Article 96(4), and according to the application for a word and in writing with the order of MPs, who submit parliamentary groups. The first registered speaker is MP Milan Lapcevic, followed by MP Milan Veseinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58571	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I'll just say a few words before the debate on this law begins, one comment on what you said in your final statement in the debate on the energy law. I fully welcome and feel very positive about your commitment to take a good look at all amendments and to have them, not related to who suggested them, whether the position or opposition, consider and accept everything that is logical and which you find meaningful, those solutions that will improve the text of the law. It's really something very correct from you. Also, I welcome your rhetorical view that energy is Serbia's first development resource, and it must be and it must be given maximum importance. I also welcome your position that everything the state finances should do to our companies. It's the first and primary national interest, to hire our people, while we're already paying for certain jobs. I wanted to hear from you and that natural resources are something that is a national treasure and that is neither given nor sold. When I say that, I also think of a resource in terms of electricity generation. The state of Serbia does not need to give any concessions or sell water flows to create power plants. This is what the state of Serbia can do on its own, produce electricity and make such electricity as a final product exports and make big money, and not give it to anyone else, to participate in joint projects, to lose both resources and large financial resources. The same applies to water, in terms of drinking water, in baths and many other things, etc. As far as the Air Traffic Act is concerned, we have no objection that everything that applies in international conventions, international agreements on certain air traffic safety rules, should also apply in the territory of the Serbian state. In that sense, we believe that such international norms should be subject to such a law. Also, the independent agency established by this law, to explore possible air traffic accidents, should be completely independent, but in that very right sense of the word, not to be set up by the government, not by the minister, nor by any political option, but by the profession and by an objective competition that will bring out the most qualitative man in its previous references, not by which party book he has or by whom he personally knows. In this debate, I will speak relatively briefly and look back at two things that concern air traffic at all, but also something that is your portfolio, but it is not directly related to this topic. The first thing is air traffic in Serbia's territory, i.e. air traffic that is scheduled to take place at the airport. Belgrade has its own airport, and almost all of Serbia's passenger traffic takes place from the airport. In addition to Belgrade, Nis has gained strength over the past few, ten years to take over part of the military airport, to train it, to invest considerable funds in its revitalisation, the training of the runway, etc. JAT has been running certain flights from the airport to Switzerland mainly since 2003, since the airport was trained, towards Zurich. Later, there were some promotional or test flights, a test traffic to Vienna, and later to Dortmund. I have to point out that I can't help but feel that it was more rhetorical and more eager to satisfy some kind of pressure to try to fly out of there, but without wanting to really develop that traffic in the right sense of the word. Since 2008, these lines have been significantly reduced, and since 2009, JAT has completely stopped flying from Nis, explaining that there are insufficient numbers of planes and that it is not worth flying from the airport. At the same time, "Montenegro Airlines" flew from Nis twice a week and had full planes towards Zurich, as well as JAT, which had full planes while maintaining that air traffic from Nis, so it is simply amazing that the efforts of both the previous management of the city of Nis and this were directed towards talking, agreeing with JAT, to maintain regular air traffic towards those European destinations for which there really is a need. We don't see any reason, and we really don't consider it a discriminatory decision by the national airline, and JAT is a national airline, JAT is a company that occasionally even the state budget helps through certain subsidies and one-time assistance. Indeed, we do not see any reason, no excuse for JAT deciding not to fly from the airport, but that it will make all its fleet available to the Belgrade airport and that the efforts of that part of Serbia to establish regular air traffic, for which there is a need for certain European destinations, completely disabling. For these reasons, Nis has gone on a rather ungrateful adventure since 2009, to subsidise from his own budget other airlines that will fly from Nis, airlines from Montenegro, and even from Italy to some destinations, in order to maintain the airport and meet the needs of people living in that territory. We really find it very reasonable to make an effort for you as a minister, your ministry to define JAT as a national airline to maintain at least one line towards a European destination. That's how much there's got to be, and that's what all the analysis shows. It will be a clear signal that the state is thinking about everyone, not just those who live in its center and treat everyone equally. The other problem I wanted to bring out is one that's not about air traffic, but it's about that traffic that's also in your jurisdiction, which is rail traffic. You are likely to know that two months ago a decision was made to completely abolish the passenger train traffic mainly in southern Serbia, on the lines towards Prokuplje, Kursumlija and Merdar, on the lines towards Dimitrovgrad and on the lines towards Knjižvac and Zajecar. Many times in the Assembly, there has been talk of a balanced regional development, how eastern and southern Serbia is the most underdeveloped part of our country, that people move out from there, that the conditions for life are very difficult and that, unfortunately, through various government measures and competent public enterprises ministries, directly or indirectly, the situation in that part of the country is getting worse. One of these examples is the decision "The Railway of Serbia" that due to the lack of passenger furniture, railway traffic at the Nis, Prokuplje, Kursumli, Merdare, which has a strategic significance and, on the other hand, is important in the social sense that, when people who have defined themselves to live in this poorest part of Serbia, they are likely to have the right to have that rail traffic that applies to the cheapest. We don't see any reason why cars always break down on those who are the poorest and those who deserve it the least. The intention of "Serb Railways" and the reasons that were presented at a meeting held in Prokuplje were that "The Railways" did not have enough passenger furniture to maintain the traffic and that they did not even have enough money to renovate the existing passenger furniture and bring them into the driver's seat. When we asked how much money it was, we were told that for some five, six passenger furniture needed to maintain regular traffic, it took about ten million euros. It really sounds amazing to us that the state of Serbia does not have tenm euros, and we know that it subsidises the Railway with 16 billion dinars, to separate for the repair of these passenger furniture, or to define new passenger furniture that should soon come from Russian procurement and one of those furnitures to point to the area. The other day information came that these furnitures were already defined for the north of Serbia, for Vojvodina, that the main depot for these furnitures would be Zrenjanin, not Nis, as the expert analysis showed, which clearly tells us that in one thing the country considers the site an orphan and the end which the last hole was playing. I don't think your commitment goes in that direction and your thinking, and I ask you, and I believe that you have enough reason to think differently and to influence the decisions of JAT in this first part, so that the Serbian railways take a little more account of these illogicalities and that these things are being corrected in walking so that we don't get into unwanted positions that people first have great animosity towards the state, according to Belgrade specifically, and on the other hand, there may be some social unrest that is certainly not in anyone's interest. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58572	Thank you. Mr Milan Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be the most based in my discussion on the amendments and additions to this air traffic law regarding EU directives and what I could read and learn from this law, this is in fact the law of some commission and experts of the EU, not the citizens of Serbia or those of the airmen. That this is true is also the first two lines of reasoning, i.e. the reason for the adoption of this law where it is said – the area of air traffic in the Republic of Serbia is being regulated by the Air Traffic Act 73/10, which created a presumption of harmonisation of national legislation with EU rules, which is one of the priorities in the EU accession process. The second view says – the main reasons for the preparation of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Air Traffic, in the text below, are to further comply with EU law, as well as to meet the recommendations set out in the European Commission's 2010 annual reports, in order to speed up candidate status. Since people have become almost, part of the people in power, as aliens or as Zdravko Colic sings that song- I live in white clouds, I would like to look back on this and publicly here tell Mr. Minister and this authority that your press, or "evening news," published a survey a few days ago where several questions were asked to the citizens. One question was whether Serbia would join the EU in 2013, where there was a statement somewhere around two commas, the second question was whether it would enter 2016. There was some percentage four point something, the third question was whether it would enter 2020. There was a slightly higher percentage. And the last question was he'd never come in. You can imagine that 67 points have been declared some percentage of citizens. If this is not the data to show something after all, some indicator to you who are speaking – Europe, Europe, the EU, then it means that we are not going to this country, but I am living in the clouds of white people. It is a sign that 67% of citizens do not believe Serbia will ever join the EU. You probably read it, too. These are some data, and I am sure there are even more of them that are not at all supporters of Serbia's EU accession. (President: Mr. Veselinović, just to warn you that we are discussing amendments to the Air Traffic Act, so I can't find a connection except the white clouds). I have attached myself to these two positions, Mr. Chairman, which are the main reasons, which is the EU, which is the EU Commission's directive to pass such a law that only increases the bureaucratic apparatus of the Serbian state, and nothing new or good brings citizens of Serbia or those employed in air traffic. I know this is a pre-election campaign and he's running, he's in a hurry. From what we read, as if in September to join the EU, we are in such a hurry, because it seems to me that this power is divided into three groups, so that one in charge of arresting national heroes and adapting EU law, other real regions, third social policy, but I can tell you openly, and you Mr. Mrkonjic are sitting in the government of Serbia, I cannot understand that the Serbian government has never asked a single question -- how are our Hague indictees, how are they living there, what about the Duke Seselj, who spends nine years in The Hague casamat in an investigative procedure? Is it even written in the history of the judiciary civilization that they've been holding someone for nine years and whether they're violating human rights and whether they should comply with these European laws? (President: Mr. Veselinovic, I warn you the second time. So, the topic is to amend and supplement the Air Traffic Act. Except that Mr. Seselj flew to The Hague by plane, everything else is not about the agenda. Please concentrate. I know that you are afraid of the return of the Duke of Seselj, but I will continue because this is all about the EU and the harmonisation of legal acts with the EU. When it comes directly to this legislative project, besides the director of the Directorate, the Centre for the Research of Accidents and Serious Accidents is now established, then the lead investigator and his deputy appointed by the Government, then the Commission for the Research of the Cause of Accidents and Serious Accidents. Here, as I said earlier, it is about a new body, about new commissions, it is about a new burden on Serbia's budget, because I am sure there has been a commission for these studies so far, there has been a surveillance inspection. It is simply a clear intrusion by the European Commission that we must obey them. Otherwise we won't get the status you speak of every day. That this is true is also confirmed in the paragraph in which it is said – the most significant amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act are the amendments to Chapter X of the Law, which regulates the investigation of accidents and serious air accidents, or the application of EU rules which regulates this research to be carried out by a functionally independent body, as well as trusts the exercise of inspection supervision to the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian government should appoint not only the director of the Directorate, but the Serbian government should appoint both the lead investigator and his deputy. How is this body independent now if appointed by the Serbian government? It is logical that he will be in the ranks of the government and be dependent on the Serbian government. These are the complete lies that this is an independent body. It will continue to be dependent on the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is further said – the draft law provides for the establishment of an accident research centre and serious accidents, as well as special organisations and the setting up of a major investigator. So the center is also established, now how many people are likely to be able to name them gets a lead investigator. But I'm saying that no matter what, there will be an increase in the number of people, and we know how much pay is there and how much will be a new run-in on Serbia's and Serbian citizens' budget. We know there's about 7,000 euros there, even more. Therefore, I believe that this law has been extorted by the EU and the European Commission, as well as many others, and in this direction, I am sure that this law will not do Serbia's citizens any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58574	The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58575	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you have pointed out countless times so far, one general strategy for the development of air traffic is targeted and based on the definition of the Republic of Serbia for EU membership, the drive for sustainable development of the transport system and the stability of institutions. What is interesting, however, is that the strategy does not include the reorganisation of institutions and funding, which is why this problem is accompanied by much more plans and those of the detailed, extensive ones in all areas. When we adopted the Air Traffic Act a few months ago, it was said that the previous law had become obsolete, and here we are months after that October or November with amendments to the Air Traffic Act, this time to speed up the status of EU membership candidate. What I would like to point out is that this favourable natural-geographical traffic position of Serbia is one advantage and a good basis for the development of all modes of transport, attracting goods transit. However, the problem lies with the lack of developed infrastructure, the outdated transport capacity, the inadequate organisation of transport security and environmental protection are also a major obstacle to economic growth, productivity and competitiveness. What should be the goal of not only this government but in general, is to form a single traffic system that will be able to compete in all European countries through its organisation, improved infrastructure and means of transport. In the development of Serbia's traffic, the level of security and quality of services should be steadily increased, the benefits of each type of traffic used, reducing the negative impact of traffic on the environment, etc. In this whole story, and thanks to this favourable geographical position, navigational, exploitation conditions, along with the construction of the accompanying infrastructure and the "Nikola Tesla" airport, should predicate to become an important hub for Southeast Europe's air traffic. Of course, Serbia would integrate into such a story and financial resources are needed, based on all the projects that should exist in traffic subsystems and should be said they are not small funds, that they are estimated to be even more than ten billion euros. By the time I mentioned "Nikola Tesla" Airport, almost 90% of total passenger and freight traffic took place. It is equipped with a passenger terminal of annual capacity of about 5.5 million passengers, a goods terminal of annual capacity of about 35,000 tonnes etc. According to the forecast given by the master's plan for capacity expansion, it will only occur in 2023 when around five million passengers are scheduled to be served annually, while for this second Niš international airport, regional traffic is mainly foreseen. Both of these airports have capacities that are unfortunately not used enough. There is also a lack of cargo resources, not connected to the railway network, lack of financial resources, etc. What is especially the chapter of this whole story is our national air carrier JAT Airways, which has also had a certain increase in international traffic in recent years. However, with the objective consequences that could occur in business as echoes or reflections of the global economic crisis, some things have been seen that can only be introduced under the definition of poor management work. If more than a million passengers were transported in 2009 in regular and cartel traffic, it is almost a fifth less than in the previous year, 2,487 tonnes of cargo on 18,585 flights. Then, according to the data, the use of the passenger cabin was 56.6% and aircraft 46.6%. The problem is the technical and technological obsolescence of the fleet, the high level of noise, obstacles related to environmental protection, which are a brake in achieving competitiveness in relation to the airlines of some other countries. But the problem is also public procurement, profit payments, which we already talked about every time we had the chance. I'll just remind you that I suppose you know, it doesn't have to be too wise to draw one conclusion that just public procurement, whose value exceeds ten billion dinars a year, is actually the core of the total annual expenditure of JAT. I'll also remind you of the fact that, let's say without a tender, over 50 suppliers in the country have purchased goods and services, that the value of these purchases ranged from one million to one billion dinars and that a similar story was also with maintenance services and replacements of spare parts of the fleet, etc. Hence, the problem of constantly money from the state budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. as taxpayers, is that we patch up holes, cover losses, and thus we cover obviously extremely bad business, i.e. poor management work. I am sure that you, Mr Mrkonjic, will also engage in the fight against these anomalies that are visible, which prevent Serbia from having significantly better results in this whole area of air traffic than it is today. Of course, some of the basic objectives that should be achieved and the new air traffic law is certainly to enable, or improve infrastructure, regulated security, air space protection, noise protection, exhaust gas, etc. What is also important is to comply with all these obligations that we have and under the laws, both the bond law and the Law on property legal relations in air traffic and the rules on the issue of operational air carriers, the Regulation on air traffic service, the Regulation on the certification of operators working on civil aviation security operations, etc. It should be realistic and acknowledge that the Republic of Serbia has virtually no potential for more than two airports, but it should not prevent any initiative and unit of local self-government from, say, developing and maintaining infrastructure for general and business aviation. By changing the structure of airport companies, their management systems according to user orientation and profit in the coming years, the goal could be achieved in the following ways – by introducing a system of compensation that meets the changed requirements of carriers, maintains a future strategy of airports, better and faster traffic connections with cities of gravity area of airports, modern marketing in co-operation with business tourist agencies and other business entities and modern concepts of non-airy activities. It's all about the airport, the land management around the airport, the business space, etc. Let this discussion be just one modest contribution to some of our visions, to seeing the SRS, to developing and fixing air traffic in Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58576	Thank you, Mr. Jeremiah. The word is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58577	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing a very important law, a law marked as important at the seminar, which was held in Brussels on 11, 12 and 13 under the heading "Transport, infrastructure in regional traffic for Southeast Europe". The seminar was attended by members of the Committee on Transport of the Republic of Serbia and discussed problems related to all types of infrastructure transport and, of course, there were also air traffic. As you said in this law, the aim of this law is to achieve a higher level of security and a major impact on the aviation economy, to increase aviation services, or to create a higher level at which the matter that matters in air traffic will be achieved. We know well that last year, the Serbian government adopted a conclusion on the transformation of JAT into a new national airline. It was supposed to be in that new company to determine, or to achieve one higher level of corporation and work, but unfortunately, that didn't happen because no one answered. I will also remind you that during 2008, a sales tender was launched that no one answered either. Ladies and gentlemen, this law should arrange that all these accidents that happen, God forbid, that in fact the body is comparatively, without any influence on whether the authorities of the state, the authorities, the authorities, determine or conclude on their own what caused the accident, or the accident. You know well that in the era of major terrorist actions, where the highest primate is, there are certain airlines, you know well what happened in Russia, which has a large security system, normally in that security system are also involved in these airlines, or we call them all airports across Europe. To be honest with ourselves, when we pass these laws, we must first look at whether JAT is capable, i.e. what is the business of JAT, where my colleagues are the subject, and I will only have two, three sentences to explain to you and to tell you what business JAT has been for the past 10 years, which is the biggest problem, and so to say, the annual manager on the political line, where the leaders of the political parties DS and SP have changed, which ultimately resulted in huge losses, or, in some way, in the collapse of this airline that was once a proud Yugoslavia, Serbia, and I say had great predisposition over the high quality of the people operating these planes, the pilots, where we were on one big level, about the quality and safety of the summer. I'm going to say that JAT Airwys' debt increased last year because it was active with 14.54 billion dinars at 18.75 billion. In doing so, the business revenue since 2009 was 11.96 billion, and last year it was 11.55, while last year the loss in business was nearly tripled by 925 million in the 2010 final account. It reached 2.52 billion, with the number of employees down from 1.508 to 1.291. Because of this condition, we can say that the Directorate is no longer able to meet the criteria for which it is set. I therefore think that both the EU and all airport users are forced to introduce this independent body that will oversee the operation of the airline, i.e. to face the problems that are happening in the airline. In your presentation, you spoke decadently of one criterion, of work, of the existence of this airline and of the objectives of what the airline intends to achieve in the future in the application of this law. You heard from counterpart Avramovic that we will not support this law, but this law has certain positives in it, at least as far as the security structure is concerned. I agree with my colleague Avramovic that until certain political structures change, or until it is in these public enterprises, here, when we have a new move of the ruling coalition, which in public enterprises, whether at local or at the republican level, wants leadership, to choose it without political similarities, or wants to choose leadership that will be able to manage public enterprises in terms of its capable material and organisational level, which says it is once again a kind of colourful lie, which will not actually happen, because even if 3.36% today at the level of the Republic of Serbia is employed and living from the budget, whether from local or republican. This means that those who are in power will continue to determine who and where to run or run these public enterprises. It would be good if we were to do so because only then would we come to that level that professional, smart, organisational people can run companies without political resemblance because these crisis headquarters that did the greatest evil in 2000, after 5 October, that's these 10 years that destroyed the entire economy, destroyed everything that's been created in this country for decades. You must understand that, as Minister, as organizer of the most important ambassadors you have done, for ten years both in that system and in this present system, where you have led your virtual organizational actions to one great delight, or to the achievement of those tasks that you yourself have set as a ministry and as a man. Understand that only the ability of organizational people to do so without meddling politics in the matter of one organization. As long as it doesn't happen in this society, in this country we will continue and further trend of erosion fails because we can no longer live on credits, on duty. I don't want to speak out of the question, but that subject is present, as far as this airline is concerned. I ask you who covered all these losses? We must have covered it from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and big salaries were received. So whoever brought the company to a bad business had to be punished for receiving a small salary and not for receiving a salary as much a month where it took seven or eight years for an ordinary mortal to receive the same salary. We had and there was this trip back 50 years that was behind us, when one political party could or directed. However, the political party has been deformed over time. Finally, what was supposed to come was that people who were able to run certain enterprises, or run the state, and in some ways treated the citizens positively, which is why they were elected. What do you have in this country today? You've got nothing. It's all about erosion. You don't know anything in advance. You know nothing in any company's business system today. The market economy can only operate in the system if a rich society has been created and there has been a rise in the level of awareness of those in the production cycle. But today, when it's gone in Serbia, when Serbia in all the pores went to zero and below zero, I don't see, except for one big cut, today in society, in the system, where crime and corruption are the biggest pedestals. It must be stopped if at least it can't be eradicated, because it's a new model that this government has created in the last 10 years. What's going on today and talking about fighting corruption and crime all the time doesn't mean anything when it doesn't come true on the ground. Because, you see, all those who are arrested, imprisoned, after a few days are released, defended from freedom, have bracelets, whether they have them or not, and we have certain cases where they are paid not to be convicted. That's the problem. Today, an ordinary mortal, if he is to be treated, has no money to pay and only has to die, and he who has money remains to live. So whoever has the money to pay not to go to jail, he'll pay, he won't go to jail because our judiciary is the most corrupt, along with health care, with education and with all the other activities in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58578	You're welcome. Since Mr. Momcilo Duvnjak is not here, the word has a folk MP Bozidar Delic, vice president of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58579	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my objection to the draft law amending the Air Traffic Act is that it is adopted by an urgent procedure, without adequate consultation of all adequate and relevant factors for which the adoption of such a law is of vital importance. All the amendments proposed were also subject to discussion at the October meeting of the Serbian Parliament, when the law was otherwise passed. A large number of MPs proposed amendments that are in the spirit of these now proposed changes, but the assembly majority also adopted the law as it is by an urgent procedure. And then it was known that the EU's basic objection to the Air Traffic Act was the position of air traffic inspection and the organisation of crash trials in civil aviation. Despite the great efforts of individual MPs, primarily the opposition, there was a fundamentally unquality law that is now being amended by the law amending the law. Meanwhile, it happened that the Serbian Air Force has been functioning for 10 months without any insight into security, or without the inspection supervision that we are required under the Constitution of this country, as well as by international conventions that have been ratified, either by the SFRJ Assembly, the SRJ or the Republic of Serbia. Now the objective question is asked – is this about someone's unconsciousness or a deliberate suspension of inspection supervision, in order to end certain affairs with a complete absence of supervision? We, Mr. Minister, suggest from the SNS that you withdraw from the procedure this law for the following reason: First, look at Article 9, which otherwise refers to Article 232. Air traffic law. After amending the law, the responsibility for inspection is transferred from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, meaning, from your ministry, to the Civil Aviation Directorate. In order for this to be possible, Mr. Minister, you should have changed Article 10 before. The Ministry Act, where this jurisdiction stands for your ministry. Because here's what it says about you: "The Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy performs the tasks of the state administration in the areas of rail, road, water and air transport relating to the regulation and security of the traffic system, the implementation of the transport infrastructure building project, internal and international transport, intermodal transport, the regulation and security of the technical and technological system of traffic, bonding and property-legal relations, inspection, traffic development strategy, development plans etc.". In order for the inspection authority from your ministry to be transferred to the Directorate, it would have to say that otherwise it was in one of the previous ministry laws, that it stands for you: "Inspectional oversight, except air traffic control". Otherwise, there would be a direct conflict between the two laws, which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow. I remind my esteemed colleagues, MPs from the ruling majority, if they vote for such a law, they will simply make one legal nonsens, violate the basic norms and principles of law, because two institutions cannot be responsible for one thing. I think you understand what this is all about. The Law amending the Air Traffic Act proposes the adoption of Article 19a. And that's why we're also proposing that the law be withdrawn. What does this member say? He says, "If it is necessary in the interest of civil aviation security to take emergency measures that cannot be postponed, the director of the Directorate shall immediately issue a security order. The security order shall specify the order to which it applies, the reasons for its adoption, the measures which are necessary to take and the time limit for their taking, the date of entry into force and any time on which the order is issued. In exceptional cases, and for a period which cannot be longer than six months, the Directorate may authorise an aircraft operator to be exempted from the obligation to comply with a specific technical requirement if it finds that the aircraft operator otherwise provided the same level of safety that is achieved under that law." It is inconceivable, Mr. Minister, that this text can pass through the government of Serbia. The proposal of this member could explain calm souls to Serbian citizens – welcome to Serbia, a country without law. In fact, once the director of the Directorate's security order is out of force, all members of the law are put in place, according to his free or interesting conviction. For example, by the position of 1st or 2nd of this article you can endlessly harass a legal or physical person who has met all the conditions laid down by law, as a matter of principle – there is still one or that little thing missing. And in the third position of this member, you can give a positive opinion to a legal or natural person who seriously does not meet the prescribed conditions. This has never been in our legal practice, especially in air law since they existed in this country. This allows today, and it allows one man, to trade unlimitedly the conditions of a ratified multilateral air traffic agreement, where domestic companies can remain shorter sleeves than foreign ones who are willing to offer more. By the way, it is necessary, Mr. Minister, to examine all the consent and approvals that have been given so far over the past three years by the Civil Aviation Directorate to the detriment of domestic carriers. Particular attention should be paid to the low cost company "Wizz air" and to establish the secret of its favoriteisation on the domestic market. The next major complaint, Mr Minister, in this draft law amending the Law, is that it is not explicitly stated that the air inspector is independent in carrying out inspection, as otherwise provided for by the Law on Administrative Inspection in his Article 6, in which he speaks of the independence and work of the inspector. In Article 6(2), point (b) is replaced by the following: The law on administrative inspection is stated – No one shall, by using the official position or by other means, disable or interfere with the administrative inspector in carrying out inspection and taking measures and actions to which he is authorised. In this law, these inspectors don't have all the powers, Mr. Minister. By contrast, the Air Traffic Act is very clear, the Air Inspector puts in a position to issue a temporary ban on the inspection of Article 184 and then within 72 hours of the ban on informing the Director, who finally needs to decide on the validity of the ban or the taking of measures, which also opens a space for borderless manipulations. All in all, the Air Traffic Act has many unspeakable and legally unfounded things. In order for the brief procedure to repeat the mistakes we already have by adopting this law ten months ago. Once again to come to the European Union's objection, which applies to this law, and again in a few months, to come back to the fact that we're passing some law amending the law. Three things, Mr. Minister, which I have stated, absolutely, especially the first, question, means this law, and therefore the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party is to withdraw it from the procedure, while, if it can be said to be a procedural matter, but not only procedurally, do not remove what is related to Article 10. The Ministry Act. Mr. Minister, if I may, how much time do I have left? Questions you don't have to answer now, but when the debate is in particular, it would be good for the Serbian Radical Party who has otherwise insisted on this topic to have that knowledge. It is known that every year, at the level of "Juro" control, certain means are allocated to improve the search and rescue services. Personally, I don't have any knowledge about the service, how it's formed and how it works, but I'm interested, because this knowledge I have, how much resources and whether Serbia has even withdrawn funds, to technically equip such a service. Because such a service must have helicopters to rescue fire and helicopters and various other equipment. For what? For all these years, these funds have not been withdrawn even though they have been withdrawn, in which way they have been spent. One other question, Mr. Minister, to say the human nature, three and a half months ago, you know there was an accident of a Serbian civilian airship over the Marbles at Chačka. We saw everyone on the news then, that there was a death of four people in that accident. That the same day was made an insight into the scene, as well as an examination of the aircraft. To this day, the families of the dead have not been informed publicly about the reasons for the accident and whether or not they have any responsibility for the accident. If you can for the day when there's a debate in particular, at least something closer because, after all, and because of these families, but also because of the public something more about this case. Mr. Minister, there's a report here in this folder called "Juro" Control, which from 17th to 21st.11.2008 carried out an audit report in practically our flight control agency. My colleague said that out of the 29 items that this audit control carried out, we had no transition assessment anywhere, so it was said, it was simply concluded that the Serbian sky was not safe, that such a conclusion could have led to our withdrawal of the right to conduct air navigation, that the sky was declared insecure for the transport of commercial aircraft and that we were deprived of authorisation to issue European flight permits. I realized, by reading this law, that the individual solutions that you have proposed in the law should right now solve the problems observed by this revision. Secondly, Mr. Minister, I can't oblige you right now because it is important here to interpret the Ministry of Justice for the ruling of the District Court in Belgrade, but it does refer to an entity that is still attached to you. He says -- due to lack of passive ID on Serbia-Montenegro's flight control agency, he is not a legal follower of the Federal Flight Control Authority, but I would like to say that I would be interested in your comment on this verdict by the District Court in Belgrade. The agency's director, according to a letter sent to us by flight controllers, has reduced the value of basic capital by 28m739 000 euros. Then the question is completely logical on our part. What caused the reduction in the value of the underlying capital, are these some basic disasters that were not there? Why is this value reduced and who has established and what by artificially reducing that value, if it is not done by the authorised international firm Erste Jung. So much, Mr. Minister, I think we understand each other well, especially in the first part where we've given objections to the Serbian Radical Party, which is why we suggest that you withdraw this law from the procedure, until these few problems are solved which we have pointed out to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58580	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58581	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in the case of the Air Traffic Act, are the easiest, simplest and best to explain to the citizens of Serbia why the Democratic Party has since its establishment advocated European and world standards and why it considers these standards necessary, not because we crash into the European Union, as some of the opposition say, but because without these standards we could not fly to Serbia today, because all those countries that today adhere to standards in aviation, in air traffic, adhere to those standards that it has written, dictated, regulated and eventually brought into line with the European Union. Anyone who says -- you know, we don't want to accept those standards, we don't want someone from Europe to impose on us, there's a response from the civilized world -- there's no problem, you can fly in your sky any way you want, but we'll shut your sky down for air traffic, and then you'll sort out the rules here for yourself how you'll use your airspace and yours, but it won't be any more airspace that will use foreign airlines, and you'll lose your income. I do not understand those who, as we listen to reasons for this law today, are calling for traditional Serbian values, while at the same time denying this time the possibility of still making progress towards the EU by accepting European standards. Then why don't they say -- wait, why don't we arrange air traffic the way it was arranged in Serbia in accordance with the traditional values of 1910 and 1911, so that we have the two flags to wave on the runway and so raise and land the planes. Which we now deviate from Serbian tradition and now accept some European innovations. We will fly as Ivan Saric flew from Saturday in 1910, during the first flight on a plane to Serbia on 16 October 1910. For Serbia's citizens alone, I have to remind myself, the first flight to Serbia was made on 16 October 1910. Thanks to one enthusiast, athletes, who lived 91 years, Suboticanin, Ivan Saric. The man who went to the car races in France, then saw there the plane of the man who flew over Lamansch, Louis Berlo, and said this was very good. They wouldn't let him take pictures of the plane. He photographed the plane and made wood and piano wire and knitted seat the same plane in his garage and then organized a test flight in front of 7,000 people from Subotica. Now, if they were to tell me -- wait for us to move forward now and now we're going to take a civilization step with Europe, which we don't stay at that level. Those who advocate traditional values wouldn't know how to explain it. As they would not have known, it would explain to us why you are constantly in this assembly giving half or false facts, because it is not true that the European Flight Control Association assessed our flight control by a negative assessment. On the contrary, with great pride, with all congratulations on Serbian flight control, the Flight Control Agency, I am telling you and informing you and letting you know that of all controlled flight control agencies in Europe's territory, 54 Serbian flight controllers are elsewhere. There's only Denmark in front of us. And it's no small thing for one country to be first or second. Just remember that Serbia welcomed Novak Djokovic when he was first on Wimbledon. We are here in the same important competition, in the world competition, in the European flight control competition, where there are independent regulatory bodies that control our flight control agency, we get the highest possible score when it comes to security. We founded that flight control agency Serbia-Montenegro in 2003. She's doing quite well. It operates in accordance with the laws, with European recommendations. Our flight controllers are the most wanted in the European sky right now. I'm just giving you a few numerical parameters, because math is one exact science, and these numerical parameters are the best denying all misinformation, malicious, semi-true statements that they're aiming at pummeling people who are honorably and professionally doing their job. It's just an example of doing some very important data. First, in 2003, before the establishment and founding of the law, this flight control agency of Serbia-Montenegro, the number of flights in the most frequent day of 2003 in Serbia was 1074, and in 2011 before the 1st of July, considered the peak of the season, which is yet to be expected, we had 2404 flights. Which is an increase of more than 100%. Today, more than half a million planes fly through the sky of Serbia, and are being directed by our flight control agency. The total share of European traffic in 2010 was 5.7%. A small country, Serbia, located at a very important airspace is participating with 5.7%, and this is commendable. The value of real estate, facilities and equipment was increased from 25m euros in January 2004 to 130m euros in December 2010 or 513% or 5.13 times. Now give me one firm in Serbia that has increased its assets from 2004 to 2010, its size of business in such an impressive way. Construction of a new flight control centre in Belgrade, a 10,000-square building, was completed and was built in 18 months. He built the building with a consortium of domestic companies "Projectometoza", and the value of the investment was 18m euros. When that building was done, we met all the standards. Can that building fly? You, sir, took off without flight control. I'm here to put you on the ground, just listen carefully. So, the value of the works was 18m euros, and operational systems were put into operation by the most modern, recent generations. This transition to these systems was carried out within the intended time limit without any disturbances in air traffic. Now give me a European firm that's had an increase of 5.13 times its profit since 2004 on this one. So these people should be congratulated, especially when it is known that they have installed equipment in their operating system, invested 60m euros. Those sentences where some flight controller reported the biggest income in Serbia, a tax application you keep mentioning. You know, when I fill out the tax returns, I can write that I'm a cosmonaut, no one checks out my profession. The man wrote that according to his profession, the flight controller submitted an enormous tax application to the Tax Administration of Vozdovac. The IRS doesn't check whether he works at the Flight Control Agency or not. The IRS doesn't check whether he does it or doesn't do it and whether it's his profession and his hobby. It simply accepts the tax application, just as each of you does not state the interest of the MP, but states interest: a graduated electric engineer, a trader, a farmer, whatever he wants to write in his tax application. Furthermore, I have to write and tell you the following thing, which is very important that you know, in the Republic of Serbia, as part of flight control, the pilot academy from Vrsac, where the Flight Control Agency has received ISO 9001 and 2008, where it has been certified to provide air traffic services in accordance with the requirements of the single European sky. The social status of employees is at the highest level. Finally, I am particularly proud to point out that 66 young engineers, electric engineers, from traffic to PMF are employed by the Flight Control Agency, to receive salaries that are in the ranks of their colleagues in Europe, thanks to membership in the European associations and organisations that the DS has been fighting for. Therefore, when you criticise the Air Traffic Act, you can criticise as individuals have presented certain legal proposals, legislative solutions. We here change only these things, so the duty of the lead investigator ceases and an independent body is formed called the accident and serious aircraft accident investigation committee. I want these people to do as little work as possible. I want these people to keep doing their job this seriously. I want you to remember, as you criticize us, the times when you were able to manage this country. That's when the airspace was closed to civilian flights, open to other flights, that's why it's up to you, not us from the DS. I want to tell you, specifically, the Flight Control Agency, I repeat, is second to all flight control agencies in Europe. It is no small thing in such a competition of one Germany, Great Britain, Italy to be second in Europe, do not muddle people who are honest, professionally responsible for doing their job as best they can, what they know and know, and I call on everyone else including us to look up to them that then we may be the first and second ones in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58582	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the right to reply has one of the two members of parliament registered. Mr. Avramovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just read the annex one of the agreements that says - there are no restrictions on the freedom of establishment by the citizens of the E3 Member State or the ECAA partner in the territory of any of them clearly saying that we have openly released our airline down the water with a folk language. So, if we're going to talk about EU fluids and what was flying or what was yet to fly, you know right away that the Serbian airline is not going to fly, and that is the basic problem of this bill and agreement itself. Here I am, quoting one member of the agreement, it stands in an annex, if you will say that EU fluid Nikola Stankov, Bojan Krishtov and all that is generally known to the Serbian public. The liquid that came upon your arrival in power, which was previously unrecognizable that a director of the Directorate has unlimited powers without control, that he can spend his resources on whatever he wants, that he can hire people as much as he wants, that there is no competition, that a face has been set up by the Government, because the fluid of Europe that you serve, and not in Europe. In Europe nowhere in this contract is it mandatory to place a person by the government in a state administration or any independent body, whatever you want to call it, but to set up a competition in the order of experts. I suggest you, if you can't organise a competition by the government, because she doesn't trust it, because the government is composed of the way it's composed, make a competition out of the ranks of parliamentary groups. So be it from the largest parliamentary group of presidents of the commission who will elect a top investigator or director of a company that does not have official status, but privately as if it were the D.O.O. So that's not the EU's fluid, that's what you're talking about from the ruling majority. It's not a proposal to install it in our law, it's just a proposal, it's a manual, it's not a law that needs to be implemented. That's a big difference. That's one thing. The second thing, you said in the draft law – the strategic goal is the EU, not the economics. That's what you said about yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58584	Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58585	I've introduced a newspaper, although I may not be the only minister, so I've brought here ten experts sitting in one room here and everything you've said they've recorded and I'll read it, mostly those questions that apply to you and deliver questions relating to what was related to the law. I will thank, first of all, Mr. Stamenkovic is not here, Mr. Kasalovic is not here, Mr. Avramovic, who is here, Mr. Lapčević, who is not here and to tell him, because his questions were tied up, and I can't talk about the sector that I run, directly for Nis Airport and Železnica. I won't talk about the railroad, because it's gone, but Nis is. So the state did everything possible to bring Nis to life, but unfortunately, JAT's commercial policy found no interest because he has large planes, but the Montenegrins found and they fly small planes. However, regardless, I'm going to try to see what I can do as a minister to get the airport back to Nis. Mr. Vladan Jeremic in this package that I will read, Milan Veselinovic, also Serbs Zivanovic-Srbo, vote for this law. Let me tell Mr. Delic, both of the questions you asked will be given to you on Tuesday, the one you asked at the end, and most of your thoughts are in the paper that I will read. The inspiring Srdjan Milivojevic, who praised us so well. I have to tell you one thing, you rarely talk about it, it may have been my fault, I threw Corridor 10 out on another plan, in a room living and doing 100,000 people, you know, Avramovic especially, 25 thousand of those who maintain roads, these pathways that are now a little complaining, not because they don't have a job but was a bad organization, 20 people working in the transport sector, where 15 thousand businesses transport and half a billion annually bring the country, 25, thousands of railways working there. In the airlock and in the waterway, 20 more people. So, 100,000 people work in traffic and times four members of the household and 400,000 citizens live traffic. People fight and work. He's got problems, but we're handling them. So, in that sense, the flyers, the ones we talked about, are at the top, not because they are Europe, and we are not, but because in air traffic the disciplines have been like this for years and they have to follow European trends. So, once again, neither the Directorate nor the Agency is burdening the budget. This institution that the rights are now going to be minimally burdened by the budget, and all kinds of traffic will be concentrated in that group that controls accidents. So here's what the experts wrote, and we reserve the right once more with them tonight to talk to them and come out before you on Tuesday, when we adopt the amendments. The merger of the jurisdiction of aviation inspection and verifications is, as has already been said, the implementation of the international obligation assumed in the general rules of international law, contained above all in the Convention on International Civil Aviation and confirmed international contracts, i.e. The ECAA agreement in a specific case. These international regulations, standards and international aviation practice contain provisions from which the air authority's obligation to issue a specific certification or assurance to the aircraft operator to carry out and control an inspection of the holder of such a certificate, to examine the implementation of laws and other regulations through direct insight into the business and conduct of natural persons and to express appropriate measures when aviation safety is compromised. It is not possible to accept any comment that it is necessary to amend the Ministry Act in order to join the jurisdiction of the aviation inspection and to verify, given that this is precisely the realization of the international obligation. The trust of the directorate's inspection supervision as a public agency was established in the widely accepted rules of international law and approved international contracts which are part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Articles 194 and 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that confirmed international agreements should not be contrary to the Constitution and the laws and other general acts adopted in the Republic of Serbia, must not be contrary to the approved international agreements and to the general rules of international law. The fact that the merger of the competence of the aviation inspection and the verifications is included in the European Commission's 2010 annual report to speed up candidate status for EU membership is just another reason why the draft law on air traffic amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act was joined. The proposed material solutions with regard to the Centre for the Research of Accidents and Serious Accidents shall be provided for the harnamisation, not only with the European Regulation, in particular with Regulation 996-2010 on the research and prevention of accidents and serious air accidents, but also with amended Annex 13 to the Chicago Convention, which refers to the same matter. The safety research body must be functionally and independently of the air authority, directorates and departments responsible for traffic operations, responsible for the navigation of aircraft, certification, flying of aircraft, maintenance of aircraft and the issuing of flight control permits, i.e. the activity of the airport and of any other participant or entity whose interests or objectives could be contrary to the task entrusted to the body for security research or could affect its objectivity. Therefore, it cannot be accepted that the proposed material solutions do not achieve this functional independence and the fact that the main investigator is appointed by the Government, i.e. that the Government determines for each year the list of experts appointed by the Research Commission, in no case reduces this functional independence. The Security Research Body shall not, during the course of its research, seek or receive instructions from anyone and must have unlimited powers for security research, and the state must provide the necessary means for it to carry out its tasks independently and allow it to have the appropriate number of experts available to do so. It also provides for a research centre that has been characterised by a special organisation to be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as any other special organisation in accordance with the Law on State Administration. This centre is the core of a future centre that will be responsible for investigating accidents and serious accidents in all other modes of traffic, because we believe that this is the most rational way of achieving an appropriate goal and uniting security research operations with respect to principles and efficiency, economics and efficiency. The number of employees will not increase or form the establishment of this centre for the position of increasing the administration. Given the fact that he is a member of the 21st century, The draft law laid down by the Centre for the Research of Rights and Obligations of Employees, Objects, Assets, etc. and the archives of the Directorates necessary for the exercise of jurisdiction in the field of security investigation of accidents and serious accidents of civil aircraft. So, taking over jobs that are already being done, as well as employees who are already working on these jobs. The material solutions relating to a security order, the exemption to meet the requirements contained in European regulations, and the comments in this respect do not stand. With regard to the comments concerning the state of aviation security in the Republic of Serbia, I now point out, that the experts of the IKAO and Eeurocontrol experts, the EAESE and the European Commission who are constantly overseeing the activities of aviation facilities in the Republic of Serbia regularly state in their reports that a high degree of aviation security has been achieved in our country, which has also contributed significantly to the Air Traffic Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-21-0.u58586	Thank you, Mr. Minister. You know that the minister is in the mood after the session that he has dialogue with you, therefore he is at your disposal. Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been declared for the word, and they have the right to use the word, I ask before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the president of the parliamentary groups, who have not used their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled debate on the proposal for a law. We'll continue our work tomorrow July 22nd at 10.00 p.m. Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by a 71-nation MP, and in order to determine the quorum required for work, the session of the National Assembly. Please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system to determine how many MPs are identified in the system and how many are in the hall. I find that by applying the electronic system, there are 90 MPs in the electronic system, which means there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milan Dimitrijevic, Aleksandra Jankovic and Mladen Grujic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of Professor Zoran Stankovic, Minister of Health, to be attended by Dr Elizabeth Paunovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr Dubravka Saranovic-Racic and Zorica Pavlovic, assistant health minister. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the proposals of the law from point. On the 3rd and 4th agenda, therefore, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled single search on drafts of the agenda under points 3 and 4 and before the opening of the search, I remind you, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the DSS - 24 minutes; to the Parliamentary Group of the SPS - 18 minutes; to the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the Parliament group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina Group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Nikola Krpic, MP PUPS; Arpad Fremond, MP group MANJINA; MP Zoran Bortic, MP group SPS - JS; MP Nikola Lazic, MP group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica; MP Simo Vukovic, MP group of United Regions of Serbia; MP Judita Popovic, MP group of LDP; MP Paja Momciov, SRS parliamentary group and MP Dusan Milisavljevic, MP group of ZES. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. Does the proposer's representative, Professor Zoran Stankovic, the health minister, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Minister.
