ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59287	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 97 MPs attend the meeting, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, that is, through 90, and another number of MPs are present in the hall, so that we have a Rules of Procedure set out the conditions for the start of the session of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and after opening the session and setting out the number of MPs attending the session and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 286 The Rules of Procedure of the People in its first position say that the MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials and from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs in order to achieve the role and functions of the MP. Exceptionally, the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may also exercise the right under Article 1 at a session of the National Assembly orally, in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? There's a word from MP Vladimir Milentijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59288	Madam President, Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, we Serbs living in northern Kosovo and Metohija survive the most difficult moments of our lives and in an unequal struggle to preserve the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in the KIM area. We have a self-proclaimed independent state of Kosovo against us. Since the recent KFOR and EULEX forces, supported by the EU and the US, have a unique and clear goal -- the abolition of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and the integration of Serbs from the north of KIM into the institutions of an independent state of Kosovo. By who knows which time I have to repeat from this place, on behalf of the citizens of the north of KIM – at the cost of our own lives, we do not accept that we live in an independent state of Kosovo, because such a life is simply impossible. If the Cypriots couldn't or wanted to live in the Republic of Serbia together with the Serbs, how could we Serbs accept living in an independent state of Kosovo with the Shiptars? For 12 years, the international community has been trying to find a solution to the KIM problem. She couldn't find him and couldn't find him, because she wasn't representing the interests of both sides, but she openly sided with Pristina and encouraged her to do everything she's done and what she's doing now. With unilateral moves, it provokes and challenges conflicts, along with KFOR and Eulex, makes violence against the naked Serb population in the north of KIM. Unfortunately, the authorities of the Republic of Serbia are helping them greatly. They help because they do not have a clear and honest and unique attitude, nor a clear answer to what Pristina unilaterally takes over. Different statements and different attitudes of coalition partners can be heard daily. This is the most frightened Serbs in the north of KIM, because fear in us only stops unity in Serbia. Farthest fear is the capitulation of Belgrade's negotiating team. In dialogue with Pristina, under pressure from the EU and the US, Belgrade's negotiating team accepted ID cards, traffic licenses and plates, with symbols of the self-proclaimed republic of Kosovo, which definitely recognised Kosovo's customs. This strengthens the border between Kosovo and the Republic of Serbia. As Kosovo customs customs has been accepted, it is logical that Kosovo customs officers and border police of Kosovo will be installed at administrative crossings, as announced for 16 September. On the other hand, the head of the negotiating team, Borko Stefanovic, denies that such a scenario has been accepted, denies that customs attributes to statehood, which offends the human mind. We Serbs from the north of KiM lose confidence in the negotiating team and Borko Stefanovic, because dialogue is secretive, without written agreement. At the meeting of the Committee, the KIM Committee committed a negotiating team to a written agreement, which was accepted, but until today, unfortunately, we do not. I therefore question the President of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Cvetkovic. In the absence of a written agreement, it is necessary for the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Cvetkovic, to immediately and publicly state what is really going on in Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue? Do you have a plan for September 16th? What will you do and will you protect your people under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59289	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59290	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I would like to refer the matter to the Minister of the Interior. The question is short and essential - why hasn't the Nis Police Department been in charge for almost two years? Is that an acceptable condition? Nis, the second city in Serbia, a university centre, with all the attributes that such an environment has for a long time, or an inaccessible long time, has no chief of police administration. It's really not an acceptable condition. We face every day with news that all the media are bombing us, that this or what happened in Nis, and that Nis is becoming more and more for an ordinary citizen insecure environment. This is no longer something about sophisticated crime, these are attributes of ordinary violence that are extremely dangerous to all the citizens of Nis and the environment. Does Niss have any personnel? I don't think so. Nis is a university center, has a law school, and I know for a fact that there are also very professional police officers who have completed the Police Academy and postgraduate studies at the Police Academy. As far as law school personnel are concerned, I know they're good at what they're talking about, the numerous awards they've won. I know many of them personally because I was a professor myself, I taught them at the Law School in Nis. So, there's no such thing as a human problem. Then is there another problem? I'd say yes. But then the question opens -- is one place, where the deciding criteria of the profession, and this place is called the Chief of Police, the necessary political consensus of the relevant factors in the right environment, or is it necessary for it to be a professional and capable man? Let me remind you, when we from the LDP, starting our own party, put in our own program essential decentralisation and talk about the rights of local self-government, we also asked the question – why can't local self-government choose their own police chief? No relevant factor in our country has answered that question. We have the answer. We know reliably that the issue and the problem of the Chief of Police in Niš Nišlja would solve the issue very quickly and in a satisfactory way, because it is the essential interest of the citizens of Nis. This is how, according to these rules, a barren political consensus is awaited, waiting for the permits of various parallel centres of power, and Nis has been missing for two years from the Police Administration. I want an answer from the Minister of the Interior -- why does the state tolerate such an inadmissible situation, and why does such a situation become ever more difficult? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59291	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives report for a word, to apply their right to Article 286? National MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59292	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this direct transmission of the National Assembly session, I want to initiate, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, one topic, which will practically be on the agenda within a few days, as we know, sessions in the National Assembly. So it concerns the Rehabilitation Act and the people who were killed in 1944 and 1945 for ideological and political reasons. I will be free, please be patient, to try a verdict from the city I come from, from Cačka, where the District Court has reached a solution to the adoption of demands for the rehabilitation of descendants of the Communist terror victims. So it is a request for the rehabilitation of the late Sinisa Pilipovic from Milicvac and the late Slobodan Bajic from Milicevic. Why am I initiating this topic today? Because I hope you've all already read the Bill of Rehabilitation that came into the People's Assembly procedure on 2 September. The text of this law shows that the basic problems, which are descendants, are freely said victims of communist terror in 1944 and 1945, are not solved. I'm just going to quote you a part of the solution brought by the County Court in Cačka, where it is said - a request for rehabilitation of the late Sinisa Pilipovic from Milicovac is being adopted, it is one village near Cačka, born 20.2.1922. It is said in the explanation – the request for rehabilitation was submitted by the descendants you and you. It is also said that the late Sinisha was deprived of his life on 14.11.1944 and was declared a people's enemy and, on that basis, on the grounds of the alleged basis, he was taken away from the entire and confiscated entire property. The verdict that he was a people's enemy was made a year later. So then the communist authorities first shot people, killed people, and then ruled that they were the people's enemies, only for the reason that they could take away their property. It is further said that one of the known members of the Partizan movement from our city testified at one of these hearings. The man said, I don't want to talk about his role in the war, but at this trial, he partially saved his soul and said he didn't know about these people that they did anything evil or any crime. What exactly am I initiating this for? The basic requirement of the descendants of these people killed is rehabilitation, although the people knew at that time that they were actually heroes and Serbian patriots, and they were no alleged enemies, because in the explanation of the rehabilitation solution they said all the legal consequences made by the decision of some world-wide national court. Therefore, that there is a goodwill in this government, property confiscated could have returned three years ago, as this solution to the rehabilitation request was made in 2008. What do I mean, what's the point? And the Law on Restitution, dear gentlemen of the ruling coalition, and the Rehabilitation Act do not, in my court, come from pure conviction and moral initiatives, that a great historical injustice is corrected, but because the deadline is near when we have promised the EU that we will pass some laws. From this rehabilitation solution are evidence that I claim exists. On 28 January 2008, a resolution on rehabilitation was made, where it literally states that all legal consequences are stopped when it comes to, say, Siniša Pilipovic, the deceased, as well as Slobodan Bajic of Milicevic, one village near Cačka, and that all legal consequences by the decision of the world's national court cease. To this day, nothing has been arranged, that property has not been returned. In my view, although I am not a lawyer, I may be reacting emotionally, perhaps from the heart, to these people, i.e. the descendants, according to this solution, and without the law on rehabilitation and restitution, should have returned this property and, in part, corrected the injustice that had been done to the people and the citizens of Serbia, primarily to the Serbs, in 1944 and 1945. Of course, most importantly, the lives of these people will not be compensated, but at least one great historical injustice will be corrected for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59293	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first of all like to ask the Government and Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to the next list being prepared for the Republic of Serbia. I want you to stop running two-faced policies when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. I want a clear and precise answer - will the census in Kosovo and Metohija be carried out? The president of the municipality of Strpci, Zvonko Mihajlovic, sent a letter to the Republic Statistical Institute, asking for information on whether a census in Kosovo and Metohija is being prepared. They told him it was all transferred to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. He went there and from Assistant Minister Dragan Petkovic, 15 days ago he received a response like this – that no list is foreseen in Kosovo and Metohija. I ask the question: where do you get the right to give up the list on KIM, why are you misleading this people? You talk to all your mouths about not acknowledging the independence of KIM, and everything you do, you're doing in the direction that KIM's independence is slowly recognised. I ask the question: how is it possible that this serious state business is so easily rejected and you're not doing it? To remind you, these lists have been a very powerful political game since the 1970s in the hands of the then automatic government, the normal communist government, which has gone in this direction to slowly change the ethnic picture of KIM. Let me remind you, the last lists that were made at KiM were in 1971, then conducted by the Federal Statistical Institute. And since then, lists have never been made. You know, the 1974 Constitution, the autonomous provinces, and everything went into hair. The approximation of 1981, then the approximation of the approximation in 1991, compared to 1981, and we got a fake image related to the ethnic composition of KIM. And you want to confirm it completely now. Just to remind you, in Croatia in 1991, there were 582,000 Serbs, 380 and some thousands of Yugoslavs, about 85% of Serbs, over 750 thousand. Last census in Croatia in 2011 135 thousand Serbs. Where did 620,000 Serbs get lost in these 20 years since 1991? So in "Blash" and "Storm" in crimes committed on Serbs in Croatia, and Boris Tadic goes and apologizes for not having a census in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because the picture would be even scarier, because there would be no single Serb or very small number in the Federation. And those who live must not plead. If they did so in Republika Srpska, they would see that the ethnic composition is almost the same as it was in 1991. That's the problem, that you accept and agree to all blackmails from Washington and America, to fit into the picture they created of us. I'm asking a question about the announcement that on September 16th, Hashim Thaci will again send police and customs officers to the crossings. Borko Stefanovic says we will do everything we can to keep it from happening. I ask a very simple question: what are you going to do, what is it that will make you not do what you have already accepted, accepting stamps, tables, personal documents, etc.? You're leading a two-faced policy of lies and fraud of this people. You are reportedly struggling to keep KiM within Serbia's borders, and you are essentially doing everything to distance it from Serbia, and that one day KIM's status would be completely insignificant, because it will be state by all attributes. I ask the question is, will the government, based on the Declaration that we adopted here, because once in three months, it's time to file a report, is it time for you to submit that report now, not when it happens, so that you complain and seek unity to show, apparently, how do we all take care of Kim together? (President: five minutes. ) Now, before it happens, we are looking for a session at which the government will report to us what it is doing that Kosovo police officers and customs officers do not put on administrative crossings.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59295	Do any of the presidents and authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their right under Article 286? National MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59296	I want to ask some questions that are very worrying and the public in Serbia and all those who experienced accidents in previous years, especially from 1990 to 2000, from Slobodan Milosevic's regime. Radomer Markovic's testimony in the Higher Court, at the trial of Stevan Basta, Ratko Romic and Milan Radonjic, is in the service of obstruction of justice and we could clearly see it. One question concerns how did members of the Sixth Department of DB, including members of the JSO, are deployed to the state services today, and one of them is in a high position in the MUP? Eleven years since the assassination in Budva, 11 years since the murder of Judge Nebojsa Simunovic, 12 years since the murder of Slavko Curuvija, 17 years since the murder of Dada Vujasinovic. The only question that makes sense is why is there still no verdict? Is the motive for waiting, on the basis of indications from individual ministers and the greatness of the character and the work of the mass murderer Slobodan Milosevic, is there a new era in which this amnesty, which continues today, awaits? The question, too, for special prosecutor Miljko Radisavljevic is: why did he say recently that the murder of Slavko Curuvija will be resolved soon, and for a certain period there is silence and nothing is happening? My question is when is it "soon" and when will all these murders really be solved, and for Miljko Radisavljevic the murder of Slavko Curuvija?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59297	Do any of the other presidents and authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wish to exercise their right under Article 286(2)? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Milos Radulovic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, National Assembly President, called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of promoter Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education and Science, to attend: Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science; Branka Totic, director of the Institute of Intellectual Property and Mirjana Jelić and Vladimir Marić, assistant director of the Institute for Intellectual Property. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on patents and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, i.e. items 2 and 3 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 2 and 3 and before the opening of a common principle, I remind you, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups for five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to the parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of a single parliamentary group, and this: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, six minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups under these points of the agenda have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, PUPS MP; MP Zoran Kasalovic, MP of the SPS – JS, MP Svetlana Stojanovic, MP of the DSS; MP Goran Mihajlovic, MP of the SRS and MP of Judita Popovic, MP of the LDP. If any more parliamentary groups make a decision on the MP they represent, as an authorised representative, please provide us with that information so that we can inform the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the Proposal for a Law on patents and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. Does the representative of Proposer Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education and Science want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59298	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, allow me to say a few words on the content of two legislative acts that the Assembly will discuss today on behalf of the rapporteur of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, the patent bill. The main objective to achieve the proposed law is to strengthen the legal protection guaranteed by patent holders. This encourages domestic inventors and scientists to create and businesses to invest in the application of inventions. The economies of developed countries are countries on innovation and inventions, a reliable patent system guarantees the recovery of funds in the creation of inventions and provides additional funding for research and development. The solutions contained in the draft law discussed today by the National Assembly are the result of the application of the applicable law in practice, the necessity to make individual provisions better. The extent of these changes was so great that there was absolutely a need for this law to be treated as new. It has also become a need to comply with international agreements, patent law agreements and the European patent convention, which Serbia has joined after the entry into force of the applicable 2004 law and EU and World Trade Organisation regulations requiring further harmonisation of the provisions of the law. The proposed law guarantees patent holders exclusive monopolies rights to use patented inventions, as well as the right to prevent unauthorized production and sales of patented products. The proposed law prescribes the conditions and means of obtaining protection for finding, as well as ways to submit patent applications that have an effect outside the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Convention on the European Patent and the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of patents. The proposed law also determines who has the right to find a job relationship and what is considered a violation of the law and what measures the patent holder can take against the person who insults the patent. The proposed law also regulates the transport of patent rights, which is of paramount importance for the transfer of patented technology and its use. The law also contains provisions on restrictions on patent law for research and development, as well as provisions on the right to apply the find for personal and non-commercial purposes. What's the paper in the bill of law that's in front of you? This is, above all, the introduction of an obligation to create a search, examine a recognised small patent, suspend the procedure for the judicial decision of the Institute of Intellectual Property and urgently examine the application of patents, introduce the right to appeal and appeal proceedings, declare audits in practice procedures. When it comes to the mandatory preparation of the search report, the Law has established the obligation for the Institute of Intellectual Property, to provide the applicant with a search report on national and international databases which makes the state of the invention technique requested by patent protection and to publish the search report and make it available to the public. In this way, a more favourable position is achieved for applicants and information provided to potential investors on the prospects of obtaining patents, which will contribute to industrial application of inventions. When it comes to the introduction of the obligation to draw up a search report, the position of the applicant will therefore be much more favourable because they are allowed to assess their patent prospects before paying a fee for the essential examination of patents, to handle this report when making important decisions such as: the application for protection of finds outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the possible correction of patents to increase the chance of obtaining patents, the investment of funds in the production of the founding in question. In the case of an examination of a recognised small patent, the proposed law, which applies in addition to the protection of patent finds, provides the possibility of protecting certain types of small patents, is designed to protect small patents which are based on the rule of a shorter market century, which refers to the construction of a product or distribution of its components. The applicable law is not the right to appeal for small patent infringements conditioned by proof that the small patent meets the conditions regarding the novelty of the inventive level of industrial applicability. This could in practice lead to the abuse of this right of which the most difficult ban on the production of products that were known before the application of a small patent. The proposed law therefore establishes the obligation to examine the similarity of a small patent as a condition for the achievement of judicial protection and to issue an appropriate certificate of compliance with those conditions. Only if the small patent holder has specified a certificate can it achieve civil and legal protection or protect the issue of a natural licence. This solution will contribute to the legal conduct and to the reduction of the number of court disputes in this area. When it comes to the suspension of proceedings pending the decision, the Office for the Emergency Review of the Application of the Patents, the paper is a regulation of the obligation for the court to terminate the proceedings in a case for infringement of the right to application of the patent until the decision of the Bureau of Papers and patents, thus preventing judgment for infringement of the rights which has not yet been recognised. Published patent application untested right. The IPR in such a case has been authorised to report patents under emergency procedure. Also, the patent application will be able to be examined by emergency procedure and at the request of market inspection and customs, when a procedure for customs or inspection supervision for infringement of patent application rights has been initiated. This shall result in more effective exercise of the right in the proceedings under appeal or when a procedure for customs or inspection supervision has been initiated for infringement of the right of application of patents. The law also introduces the right to appeal and appeal, as well as other laws in the area of industrial property, and this law introduces the right of appeal to decisions by the Institute of Intellectual Property relating to patents and small patents. The proposed solution will allow for more effective protection of the rights of parties, as well as contribute to the discharge of the administrative court, by enabling the publication of audits in litigation procedures for the protection and use of finds, to resolve the legal gap with regard to the authorisation to declare the audit, which has been brought into force by amending and supplementing the 2009 Law on the litigation procedure and complementing the civil-law protection of the rights prescribed by the proposed law. The adoption of the law in front of you, which is harmonised with EU rules, relating to patents and the priority set out in point 54. The Action Plan to meet the European Commission's 2010 annual report and the post to speed up candidate status. Two more sentences. A public debate was held on the patent law between 25 October and 8 November 2010. In a public debate on 5 November 2010, a roundtable on the working text of the patent law was held at the Institute of Intellectual Property. All proposals that could be heard, which were acceptable, were adopted and incorporated. So much for patent law. Now a few more words about the bill on amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights achieves full compliance with the provisions of the Agreement on trade aspects of the intellectual property of the World Trade Organisation, known as the TRIP Agreement and EU directives governing the matter of copyright or related rights. In this way, pre-conditions are created in different segments of copyright-legal matter, primarily in the domain of copyright restrictions, rights of follow-up, rights of manufacturers, databases, domain of copyright protection and related rights, etc. interests and authors of related rights holders, more fully and better protected than ever. In addition, harmonising domestic legislation with EU professions is important because of the obligation to establish a free trade zone that Serbia has committed to by signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. To achieve that goal, it is of particular importance for our country to comply with the rules of the domain of intellectual property, including the law on copyright and related rights. The most significant amendments to copyright and related laws relate to standards that regulate copyright restrictions. In certain situations, social interests impose the need for a monopoly that the authors of the bearers enjoy in relation to their actions. These are examples for the sake of public security, justice, improvement of school teaching, public information, incentives and dissemination of information literacy, etc. When you mention it, the interests of the law restrict copyright by allowing the use of other people's copyright without the permission of the author and without paying the copyright fee. One such restriction of copyright and one which says that the multiplication of copies of published works is allowed without the permission of the author and the payment of the copyright if this act appears as an integral part of the current event to be reported. This copyright restriction has been established with the aim of free and uninterrupted public reporting on current events. The Law on Amendments and Supplements specifically stressed that these copyright restrictions apply not only to the press, radio and TV, as so far has been the case, but also to other media, above all the Internet, today's most important interactive media in the world. The existing Law on Copyright and Related Rights provides that the purposes of the course of research and scientific research can be used by short passages of published works. By amending the law, this restriction has been regulated much more detailed. It is now foreseen that, for the purposes described above, copyright works may be performed or represented in their integral form, provided that they have been declared to be non-commercial. The same applies to the public performance and presentation of published works at school events, such as drama shows or concerts. The only condition is that the interpreters don't get compensation for their work. One of the restrictions on copyright provided for by the existing law is that it is allowed by a natural person to multiply copies of the published work for personal non-commercial purposes without the permission of the author and without the payment of the copyright. This copyright restriction at a time when copying copyright works is easy, quality and relatively cheap, seriously disrupts the legitimate interest of the author. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights provides that the restrictions mentioned are not to apply to the multiplication of written works in the scope of the entire book, unless the copies of that book have been sold out for at least two years. In this way, it stands in the way of widespread practice of copying books, especially textbooks and other professional literature that seriously endangers the economic interests of writers and scientific workers. In addition to the rules governing copyright restrictions, the law on amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act has been detailed and the right to follow. It guarantees the author, works of art, that under certain conditions he will be informed of the resale of his works and receive financial compensation. In this way there is much more work being done in the work of those who are professionally engaged in trade in works of art, such as sales salons, art galleries, stock houses, etc. The amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act also regulated the question of the protection of the database. It is predicted that everything is covered by the protection of the database, which the property rights enjoys by its creator, and who is the authorised user of the database. The development of computer technology is dynamic and permanent, so the regulations in this area change relatively quickly. By introducing these amendments to the copyright and related law, our country successfully monitors the trends of developed European countries and databases to protect them in a quality and modern way. Technological measures to protect optical discs, illegal copying often resorted to by their manufacturers, are desirable because they prevent piracy. In some cases, however, the law limits copyright and says that it is allowed without the consent of the author and without paying the copyright to multiply other people's copyright, for example, because of the need to conduct a judicial or other procedure. Then, because of the technological protection that the optical disc is supplied, the state authority is unable to copy it and if it is legally entitled to do so. In the current law, it is not stated whether the right holder in such a situation is obliged to remove the existing technological measure. By amending and supplementing the law, this issue is detailedly regulated in such a way that the rightholder who uses technological protection measures is obliged to remove them as soon as possible and thus enable access to a copy of the copyright to persons entitled to such access under the law. Finally, by accepting the proposed amendments and by supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, it will be fully in line with EU and World Trade Organisation regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59299	Do the rapporteurs of the committees want the word, the Committee on Science and Technological Development, the Committee on European Integration or the Legislative Committee? The word has a People's MP, Petar Kuntic, just please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59300	A few days ago, the Scientific Resolution Committee discussed the patent law and supported the law most of the votes. The patent law is, in fact, this issue that we have received legal regulations and it is raised to one higher level and in fact all the positive elements of European legislation have been translated into this patent law. Why does it matter? It's important, let's say, let me tell you an example from practice. A few years ago, while I was working in the economy, I had close cooperation with the owner of the company who at the time funded and participated in making one of the biggest inventions in the last ten years in the state and when the time came to register, I asked whether it was going to work here or working abroad. Of course, the current regulation had certain shortcomings and this revolutionary patent that won all the prizes here in the country, abroad, opened gates to all possible companies in Europe and the United States, and is now likely to be installed into the technology of large companies abroad. That's why it's important that these future researchers have this patent job, and that it's settled here in the country, because it's not easy to register a patent abroad, especially when it's related to significant material expenditure, and most researchers don't own it. Because of this and the number of advantages this law offers, I am quite sure that in the day of voting, most MPs will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59301	Anyone else want a word from the committee's informants? No, I don't. ( b) Do the presidents, or representatives of authorised groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Siniša Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Associates, when reviewing the basic institutes of the applicable law, which was led by the promoter of these two new projects or solutions, it is a fact that it has used the solutions that the World Trade Organisation has prescribed for its members, the IPR Agreement that came into force on 1 January 1995. It's so-called. The TRIP agreement we're sticking to today. During the ratification of international contracts, which are administered by the World Trade Organisation, for the protection of intellectual property, surely our authorities have adapted all their legal solutions during that period, to the laws given by TRIPS. We must also remind ourselves of the course of all these regulations that we must approach today, which we must establish to apply to our conditions. The co-operation agreement signed on 19 June 1970, and then ratified in September 1979, we agreed to implement the rules on cooperation agreements in the area of patents that still apply today and on the basis of which we have long worked and implemented all these activities. The patent co-operation agreement, ratified on 29 June 1996, pretty much changed the provisions of the previous treaty, i.e. the previous co-operation agreement that has now put new conditions before our bodies, which also had to adapt to the situation we were in. The ratification of the contract was carried out on 14 September 1996, since it began to apply, or since 1 February 1997. A patent law agreement also under consideration today, which was adopted in Geneva on July 1st 2000, established the legal basis for its validation, and then came into force since it began to apply. Finally, the Strasbourg Agreement on International Pantheon Classification since March 1971 has established changes that are still in force today and that we hope to adapt to the latest and best solutions that exist in this area by today's adoption, i.e. the next adoption of laws, and one and the other. The Convention on the Recognition of European Patents has also committed, on the basis of Article 63 of the Convention, to certain changes that we must apply and to which there is no tolerance whether they are applicable or not. They simply must be applied because they are then compatible with all world and European solutions. I note that such conventions and this manner of proposed law have established additions that are more than half of the additions of all members of the current law, which, based on the provision of Articles 2 to 47 of the uniform methodological rules for the making of rules applicable to our country, led us to propose the adoption of a completely new law, not just amending and supplementing the law, as precisely the important variant was said. The proposed law, as well as the current patent law, provides for the protection of patent finds and small patents as newspapers or as a way to resolve certain things that are submitted in the previous procedure. Given that this process and the subject of protection of inventions in both large and small patents are different, the current solutions given in the draft law as a new legal solution fully resolve these issues both in the process and in the way decisions are taken on the adoption of one or other patents. We must remind ourselves that the introduction of a mandatory report on the search of the state of the technique in the case of finding before the patent application is announced is a good solution and that is a solution that is consistent with European solutions. Under the applicable law, the procedure is essentially an examination of the subject matter of patent application with a period of six months from the date of publication. Now this deadline is shrinking and it is normal to shorten, given the significant progress of technological and technical solutions that we have in the world today. We are particularly, considering the draft of this patent law, agreeing to introduce provisions governing the protection of these patents, especially small patents. Unlike the current patent law, the proposed law prescribes that a small patent has the same inventive level as a large patent. This paper is proposed for the reason that the applicable law does not define the inventive level of the small patent, and in practice it must be defined and applicable. In particular, we would like to point out that the latest newspapers that are introduced into the technical – technological and patent life in our country are newspapers that the proposed change is relative to the damages that would affect its duration or the duration of certain patents if they do not live in practice or are not the basis for creating new innovative solutions. This injury must be distributed equally to those who have proposed, deployed to those who have not properly applied it in practice in the manner that this patent solution has been established. The patent law Treaty lays down rules aimed at harmonising and streamlining formal requirements regarding the arrangements for applying for the protection of all patent rights to be lodged with a particular competent authority. We believe that this regulation covered all elements compatible with EU elements and are equal with previous legal solutions and with new solutions that are proposed. In relation to the current patent law, new provisions governing the protection of both small patents and large patents have been introduced and we will accept and apply that regulation in everyday practice. We recall that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia confirmed the patent law Treaty in Geneva on July 1st 2000 as early as 26th 2010. The Law confirming the patent law Treaty entered into force on 3 April 2010 and began to apply from 20 August 2010. This patent law contract provides for a maximum of formal requirements in the process of protection of finds in respect of the value of the application for protection, the arrangements of the application for protection of find, representation, and the procedure in which the legal protection of the find of a signator of which is carried out. We think it's okay and that's how it's supposed to be applied. The patent law agreements may also be prescribed in a different way unless it is contrary to other regulations. We would like to note that the patent law also harmonised the provision of the patent law Treaty relating to the application procedure, then to the taking of all the actions necessary by the representatives, then to the receiving of notification by the competent authority regarding the procedures, but also to the payment of fees and fees for the application of certain patent rights. We believe that all these measures are due to the operations that are in line with the general rights of the regulations and the EU Convention that we have mentioned. In view of the fact that the proposed measures, unlike the applicable ones, provide for the entry of the right of application and of the right of application in the relevant register of the authority responsible for intellectual property affairs, we consider that the transitional provisions of Article 2(2) to the new solutions proposed are quite fine and we will support them when considering the law in principle, and also later when the law is considered in particular, that is, when the amendments are considered. A large number of amendments submitted indicate that there is room and room for the technical corrections of the missing solutions given in the draft of this law. We think this law deserves to get our full support and in voting day we will support both laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59303	The word is by MP Judita Popovic, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59304	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we support the draft patent law, and we particularly support the reasoning set out in that law. I can say the same about these amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, all with the reasons that were also given in this bill. Now I would quote an explanation from one law and another. Normally, I'm not going to read you the whole explanation, so I don't bother you, so I'd just quote certain pieces. I would like to quote from the explanation of the patent bill the following sentence: "The primary objective which is to achieve the proposed law is to strengthen the legal protection provided to the rightholder through the development of certain provisions that have in practice caused dilemmas and different interpretations." It's okay, and you really should always try to explain all the provisions of the law in order to remove any kind of doubt. I would also quote part of the reasoning of the law on amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. It is said: "The proposal precisely regulates the conditions under which copyright has been suspended in favour of the media, which report on the current event, which will allow them to work and report smoothly. The proposal better and more detailedly regulates copyright restrictions for direct study, of which educational institutions will benefit. The proposal introduces restrictions on copyright for the purpose of parody, which for the first time clearly regulates this area, which should lead to the removal of the confusions that the public is facing in relation to the right to parody and to reduce the number of court proceedings that are being conducted needlessly." I particularly stress the following quote: "The amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which relate to copyright restrictions in Serbia's copyright system, introduce clearer rules that will facilitate the business of their addressees." By quoting certain parts of the reasoning of these draft laws, I have actually questioned the integrity of the copyright, that is, that kind of quoting can lead to the integrity of the copyright, which is defined by Article 17 of the existing Copyright and Related Rights Act. Since this case is about amendments to the law in question, it is simply unclear and I have not seen the reason why this article is 17, which is otherwise problematic, vague and inaccurate. It is not covered by these changes and additions to specify the same. In fact, this Article 17 was one of the key legal reasons for a controversial one, in the best case scenario, the ruling of the Supreme Court of Serbia in 2009, which banned one book in Serbia. I'm talking about the 21st century, I'm talking about 2009, I'm talking about the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which hasn't changed these amendments in that sense in order to make it much clearer and to prevent any abuse from any institution, from any authority. Why am I citing that verdict? Because, in fact, it quoted this Article 17 as saying, in its explanation, that the quotes representing the content, the book "Jucoma", the case of Officer Aleksandr Tijanic, led to the violation of the moral copyright of the one quoted, since his consent was not requested that those quotations which were otherwise publicly published in the period from 1976 to 2004, be quoted, or entered into the book "Jukomovo". It is the precisely transmitted articles of the article, written by the author Aleksandr Tijanic. However, that was not enough for the court. The court considered the critic, or author of the book "Jukom", to be obliged to ask for the consent and approval of the criticised. Otherwise, these quotes represented only an argument as an explanation of the criticism that was directed for action, i.e. for everything that the public figure Aleksandar Tijanic said during that time period, wrote, the audiences, presented and so on. This Article 17 of these amendments and additions does not change, remains such, inaccurate. Now I would quote you this article 17, so you know exactly what this is about. He says, "The author has the exclusive right to protect the integrity of his work and, in particular, to oppose the changes of his work by unauthorized persons", in a concrete case, we cannot see this in particular, "to oppose the public statement of his work in an altered or incomplete form, taking into account the specific technical form of declaration of work and good business practice". Neither can this specifically, clearly, precisely, decadently refer to a concrete act, as the court says. Third, "To give permission for the processing of his work." So this can also be, and it doesn't have to, but it's not concrete, it's not precise and it doesn't give clear authority to institutions, bodies, to interpret in favour of the one quoted, against the one who used that quote. If the intensity in this law, and as far as I understand it is, is that, in some way, copyright is limited in the public interest, in the interest of the media, or citizens, to be properly informed in the right sense, with the right content, then I don't see why only this Article 17 is quite inaccurate from these changes and additions. It is simply incomprehensible that the authors of the bill lost sight of how important this article was in 2009, when the Supreme Court ruling just called for this article. I can't understand it there, and I understand that for them the ban on one book is so irrelevant. I say – the ban on books, which is a book, unlike various pamphlets, unlike the "Maykanfa" and the case of a national machine that you can find in almost every bookstore in both Belgrade and Zrenjanin, which are never banned and which can still be bought freely if you go to the bookstore and have enough money to buy them. This bans one book called "Jucoma". This draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights points to two major problems. First, the problem in the judiciary. Since such a verdict has been passed, which is in every sense discriminatory and I am merely showing how much it took to move forward with judicial reform and how good it is that judicial reform is still being implemented and that so much effort is being put into it. On the other hand, it shows how much our legal proposals are quite half-assed, because they don't go deep enough into the matter needed to change. You will allow, this example that I have given the illustrations of why we have a problem with this bill, I think it is quite enough to set an example for more serious approaches to changes and additions if we have the ambition to bring these laws closer to EU standards. I would like to give another illustration of the misapplication of this article 17. The copyright law. That's what I'm gonna end up with. It is, in fact, the quote that is the subject of the book, the case of official Aleksandar Tijanic -- that if Zoran Djindjic survives, Serbia will not. So that's a pretty clear line, pretty clear quote, pretty accurate quote. However, since it was used without the consent of the quoted, for this reason, among other quotes, the book had to be banned, and the one who criticized must also pay compensation for what he did to the one he criticized, and who he did not ask for permission to criticise it. You will allow, it is a little absurd and for these reasons it is necessary to do much more work on the draft laws and when the laws are written, to pay attention to many facts, and when adopted by the Government to take into account, among other things, these things, as one shameful decision of the Supreme Court of Serbia in 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59305	Thirteen minutes used by the time of the mandated president of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59306	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia-United Serbia MPs' club, supports the proposal for a patent law and a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, and certainly, the work and results of the restoring ministry headed by Minister Obradovic. It is good and logical that the proposed solutions in both laws are the result of reviewing the application of existing laws, the provisions of the law in practice, and, of course, of parallel legislation. The adoption of proven solutions in the sphere and in the dynamic area that regulate both of these laws, which certainly leads to the harmonisation of this matter with the international agreements that Serbia has joined since 2004, is certainly the ultimate goal of harmonising our legislation in this area with the European Union and the World Trade Organisation. The Socialist Party of Serbia-United Serbia believes that the development of science and the realisation of scientific research projects, innovation, inventions are an integral part of the development of society, and we believe that it is necessary to engage scientific research institutions in the realisation of the country's development priorities, and that this is one of the keys to successful development. The patent law aims to strengthen legal protection, which is guaranteed by patent carriers. Of course, the idea is to encourage researchers and scientists to act in the Republic of Serbia. These are people of knowledge, and the Socialist Party of Serbia considers knowledge to be the largest personal and social capital, and the largest investment in the 21st century. That is why we believe and want Serbia's national interest to be the retention of young people, young scientists, inventors in our country. No media and estranged propaganda of science can certainly be a substitute for one intended responsibility in the development of science and its improvement. Certainly, the provisions of these laws cannot be subjected to certain estrictive and media provisions, but rather one significant step towards the long-term improvement of scientific research through what I have said is strengthening legal protection and the elimination of the phenomenon that young inventors have determined to declare their patent to another country, due to the absence of adequate legal and legal regulations in the Republic of Serbia. By adopting both laws, Serbia accepts high international standards, which certainly contributes to the creation of one and the creation of a desirable environment for investors, above all, by foreign companies that are very well priced and watchful that intellectual property, property is at all protected. So patents, copyrights are a necessary segment of that, and of course, how their investments in modern patented technologies will be protected. This law, which is really very detailed and has a lot of precise norms, actually achieves that. With that in mind, I'd just like to make a few papers, when it comes to patent law, because I appreciate that they're very important. First of all, the introduction of a mandatory search report will undoubtedly improve the position of the applicant and, of course, investors will obtain the necessary information on the prospects of obtaining patents, which will certainly contribute to industrial application of the find. Also, an examination of a recognised small patent, the protection of a small patent, is foreseen for short-market inventions. This provision will certainly contribute to the legal behaviour and reduction of the number of court disputes in this area. Then, by introducing the right to appeal and appeal proceedings, which will enable more effective protection of the rights of parties and allow for a good discharge of the administrative court. Declaration of audit in litigation procedures, removing one legal gap and completing civil and legal protection of the rights prescribed by the law. The harmonisation of the rules of the intellectual property domain, including the copyright and related rights law, is of paramount importance to our country. This law regulates, as I have already said, a very dynamic area and monitors the trends of European developed countries and brings about the most significant changes concerning standards that regulate copyright restrictions. Certainly, certain phenomena in a society that were not immutable during a certain period of time, such as copying, the appearance of the Internet, the protection of optical discs, deserve a legislative response. When it comes to copying works, it was really not possible to copy them so easily and qualityly. It's very possible these days. The existing law allows a natural person, without permission of the author and without payment of the copyright fee, to multiply copies of the published work for personal and non-commercial needs. This time, the amendments to this law provide that the said restriction does not apply to the multiplication of written works in the scope of the entire book, unless the copies of these books have been sold out for at least a year, and thus is really stopped by a wide-ranging phenomenon, the practice of copying and the abuse of copyright. Also, under the conditions of dynamic development of computer technologies, amendments to the Law regulate the question of the protection of the database, what is covered – property rights and who is the authorised user of the database. The law offers solutions when it comes to technological measures to protect optical discs. It regulates the right to follow and, for example, guarantees the author works in art. He guarantees that if there is a resale of the piece, he must be informed and receive adequate financial compensation. It's also a sphere that's developing dynamically in our society. These amendments provide that restrictions on copyright with the aim of free and uninterrupted public reporting on current events apply not only to the press, radio and TV, but also to other media, which are considered to be, above all, media in expansion, the Internet. Finally, I would like to conclude that it is really obvious that a particular challenge is a matter of monitoring and implementing the provisions of both of these laws on the ground, which is certainly a challenge for the EU and many developed countries and countries, because it is a dynamic area. Of course, good and well-known solutions, with experience of applying these solutions in the EU and other developed countries, should be accepted, do not go beyond the world. It is known that investors want to come to a familiar field. The provisions of both laws really create a well-known terrain and a favourable investment environment when it comes to these areas in the Republic of Serbia. That is why the SPS-JS parliamentary club will support both of these proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59307	The time used from the time of the authorised representative is 8 minutes and 15 seconds. The word has a folk MP, Svetlana Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59308	The Law on Copyright and Related Rights, adopted in December 2009, was spoken of as making solutions taken from the best European practice and comparative European legislation. A year and eight months later, the bill on amendments and additions to this law arrives before lawmakers. Not because this first law proved inapplicable, but because we were told from Brussels that our law does not satisfy the level of copyright protection in the EU. The amendments to the law are not proposed because the position of the author in Serbia is disastrous and it is disastrous, but because we did not give the EU questionnaire the right answers. This seemingly difficult job, to make one of the already quite European laws even more European, was not really that difficult. The current law required the introduction into our law of the non-existent provisions of the tax directive. And the most unwavering Europeans, those for whom the EU has not had an alternative recently, are now suggesting that even the candidacy, not only that the far-fetched perspective of membership, is no longer quite certain. However, we still pass laws that fit in the hair with what Brussels is looking for, and what with the reality in Serbia, with the conditions in which we live every day, there are almost no touching points. In order to satisfy Section seven of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, relating to intellectual property, we must, whether we like it or not, introduce the provisions laid down in the directive of taxation, which the Government has given in addition to the amendment and supplementation proposal. The Directive on the right to resell in favour of the author of the original works, the Directive on the Protection of Databases, the Directive on the Law of Employment and Rights, the Directive on the Duration of the Protection of Copyright and Related Rights, the Directive on the Legal Protection of Computer Programmes, the Satellite Broadcasting and Cable Remission Directive and the Directive on the Harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the Information Society. Since we already have this many directives, we wonder why we've been arguing for hours and spending the money of the poor taxpayers? What must be, must be, we could gather for 15 minutes and press the button if we really want to become an EU member already in 2019. There is another strong reason to adopt the proposed changes and additions. The copyright law and related rights must also be brought into line with the World Trade Organisation Act, with the IPR Agreement. The current law on copyright and related rights, which we are now correcting, is not only insufficiently European, but not after a year and eight months after adoption, which is not unusual. On the contrary, this is the case with most of the laws that we are passing in a hurry, hundreds, in order to meet European standards, for our sake, for our happiness, for, of course, not for the EU, which we are going to find very difficult to enter, and not because we do not want to. The 2009 law prescribed a way copyrighted. Only collectively, according to a single tariff for all works of art. The tariff will be established by mutual agreement between collective rights and related organisations, on the one hand, and the copyright users, on the other. If no agreement is reached, the Commission for Copyright and Related Rights, appointed by the Government, will assist and act under the auspices of the Institute for Intellectual Property. None of this in practice could have been applied. First, in the country of Serbia, unfortunately, organisations for collective achievement of copyright and related rights have only composers, interpreters, actors and phonogram manufacturers. All other authors, writers, translators, painters, winemakers, architects, designers and others do not have organizations through which they could arrange fees for the use of their works. Secondly, the Commission for Copyright and Related Rights, which was intended to assist in establishing a single tariff, was not appointed until December 2010, or one year after the law was passed. So for legitimate reasons, she could not even participate in reaching a single tariff agreement. This is just proof more that it was important only to adopt the law, and that and whether it will be possible to apply itself at all, that lawmaker, the government is not interested. Instead of the agreed uniform tariffs for the use of intellectual property, we received a tariff set by the authors themselves, the boycott and dissatisfaction of the users of the works, on dozens of court disputes due to the non-payment of copyrights and wonderful wonders, despite the daunting state in our broken court, even one verdict in favour of damaged authors. This evidence of the inapplicability of the 2009 law has been carried out, among other things, on the basis of a failed attempt to resolve the long-standing dispute between the composers of mass listening music, who have their copyright protection organisation, and users of this music, television stations, hotels, cafes, hair salons, gas stations and others that increase profits based on their playing such music. In this dispute, television defended itself, and other users of mass listening music had anyone to represent, the Union of employers of Serbia. To be clear, copyright must be paid, without dilemma and without delay, but the copyright of all authors, not just the chosen ones. Writers, translators, painters, chefs and other authors, since they do not have organisations collectively determining the compensation for the use of their works, after the adoption of the 2009 Copyright and Related Rights Act, as well as the adoption of a roof and general Culture Act, could only write texts about how Serbia has no cultural policy and why it is not there. Despite the new laws on culture, the authors of all kinds talk about how their naked existence is threatened, and the conditions for creation are almost impossible. They point out that, not only of their own, but also of the position of the entire culture in Serbia is extremely difficult. In their address to the public, they express their fears that Serbian culture is threatened with the danger of being completely suppressed. This rarely heard so-called. We support the silent majority of the creators in every way. Among the amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act there are provisions for all praises. It is great that, in accordance with the relevant directive, the law introduces an obligation for the painter to receive a certain percentage of the price achieved when his picture is sold for the second time. The percentage is paid by the buyer, seller and mediator within 30 days. Who in the country of Serbia will know when and whom is the picture sold? Nobody. Who's interested in that, anyway? No one. How's a painter gonna get that money? Not at all. It is great that in the amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, in accordance with the relevant Directive, which is prescribed that writers and publishers receive a certain amount of compensation when their works are used in teaching or scientific research. Who will record what works are used in teaching or scientific research? Nobody. Who's going to pay writers and publishers that fee? Nobody. It is also nice that the law, in accordance with the relevant directive, obliges producers or importers of photocopying apparatus to pay in advance to the authors of printed works certain compensation, only because they can, even when it does not seem to be, be unauthorized to copy them. Maybe this imposition of state will also charge, but that money will actually reach the author of the printed works, which is hard to believe. Changes and additions to the Copyright Act, instead of one tariff, introduce more tariffs, but all problems related to copyright protection remain the same, because the Copyright and Related Rights Act is not meant to protect domestic authors and solve their problems, but rather to satisfy the level of protection in the EU and protect foreign authors whose works are used in Serbia. The internal incompetence of the laws we adopt, their mutual discrepancies within our legal system, the fully decommissioned state institutions, the unwilledness of citizens, including the authors, the indifference of the legislator to their application in practice, together contribute to keeping adopted laws a dead letter on paper. The National Assembly, however, will continue to adopt the laws speedily, in united debates, in packages, day and night, on Saturdays and Sundays if necessary, because that's our job. When we accept state guarantees and own our own territory and leave our countrymen in KIM to live in inhumane conditions, we may, with any luck, become a member of the EU in 2019 or 2029, so it makes sense to pass all European laws. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, a state that makes laws under other people's directives, and not in its own mind, can hardly be called a sovereign state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59309	13 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. The word is by MP Goran Mihajlovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59310	Dear fellow MPs, members of the government, before the MPs of the National Assembly and before the citizens of Serbia today, in the framework of a joint principled search, we are having a debate on two united draft laws, which are the draft laws on patents and the draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. At first glance from these names, however, it would be said that it is a new and an old law, but it is only at first sight, because one and the other laws are, practically old – new laws, because they have been existing for several years. Why is one change, and the other isn't? We know there's a so-called. the unique methodology of proposition and rules for law making, so when more than half of the members are changed in some law, then the new law is, and less than half are amended. In this case, we have that in the patent law, the amendments included more than half of the members, and that's why the new law, while the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, I'm going to present a few statistics, of the 226 members, how many valid versions it has, are being submitted to 45 members to amend and supplement, so this is about amendments and additions to the existing law. So both laws have been amended, only the patent law is more modified, and the Copyright Act is less modified. Either way, both laws today have to work together, i.e. to say in the pedagogical jargon, they are in the correctional exam today, as clearly EU mentors have not been fully satisfied with the solutions in the existing version, so they are seeking some adjustments. I must say immediately that the current Minister of Science, Technology and Education Mr. Obradovic at the time was not the Minister of Science, it was Mr. Boza Djelic, so he could be attributed to the correction that is needed today. Secondly, it can be said that today did not happen what happened last time Mr. Obradovic visited the Assembly. Namely, these two laws are logical and substantively linked in condition, while last time we discussed, as you know, the Law on Optical Discs and the Law on the Fundamentals of Education, which did not have much to do with each other. Otherwise, both laws that we are discussing today treat the same problem, which is the protection of intellectual property, means protecting the individual's personal and business rights, which in the first case owns the patent, in the patent law, and in the second case, the owner of the copyright, in this second law. We are witnessing a very chaotic situation in this area, where fundamental standards and rules of conduct are not respected, so we can say that for many years in Serbia this has been an unsettled and unsettled area. Later, I'll give you concrete examples from which we'll see it. In close connection with these two draft laws today, there are two laws that we have passed in the previous period, which are the Marks Act and the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design, which are not currently under way, but you never know what the mentors will say, so it would not surprise us that they too will soon find themselves in certain corrections with the MPs. It is best to take the order and analyse and present major changes in both laws to the citizens of Serbia. First of all, patent law. Currently, the patent law, adopted in June 2004, is in force in the Republic of Serbia at the time of the existence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The Proposer cited three types of harmonisation as the main reason for the adoption of the new law, i.e. Consensus, first with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then with the new Law on Ministries and with international standards and directives that are being put before the Serbian government on a daily basis. It should be emphasized, reminders, that in 1989, the former SFRY signed a convention with the World Intellectual Property Protection Organisation, so-called. VIPO association, which declared its willingness to protect copyrights, i.e. to protect intellectual property. In time, two types of agreements were created in Serbia. The first group is so-called. The TRIPS agreements, which were dictated by the World Trade Association, and the second group are the EC agreements, i.e. instructions and EU directives, relating to patents, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers of the EU. Although we are neither a member of the WTO nor an EU, we see that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been trying very hard to correct its position on candidate status, and this has led to the fact that laws have already been passed, and when and if we are going to be in the EU, this is a special topic. Well, that's why it's happened that the laws have already been passed, and when and if we're going to be in the EU, that's a special topic, although we've heard all these days from the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Bozo who says it's no longer a dispute that we're going to get candidate status just because we still don't know the date of the negotiations. So you from here decide whether it will be soon or not. Regardless of this finding, I will briefly address here the analysis of the effects that the adoption of this law would have on its potential users. In this law, first and foremost in a slightly different way, legal protection of finds that are protected in four ways by patent so-called patents. a small patent, an additional patent or special certificate of additional protection. In short, I'm just going to let the citizens of Serbia know what each of these concepts is about. So, under the patent, the law requires the right to recognise the applicant of a finding in any area and technique provided that this product is new and innovative and applied, or industrially applicable, and for this reason is given a patent right to a 20-year period of time from the patent day, and unlike the patent, a small patent is, in fact, the same product, which is innovative industrially applicable, but is not new in the whole of the product, but only one of its constructive solutions or is the new layout of the constituent component and elements within the product, and for that reason, the time period protected by patent is twice as short and that is ten years. Then there's this so-called. an additional patent, meaning if the author performs a supplement or a revision to something that is already patented on that new completed, is that such a thing can be patented again and it is then an additional patent, while the additional protection certificate refers to a specific patented product and it is exclusively in the transport of medicinal products for human use and for domestic animals or in the transport of plant protection products. So these would be the four categories that cover the legal protection of intellectual property. It can be said that today's patenting has taken off on a global scale. There are even some estimates that, in maybe ten years' time, a world patent system will appear in the world that will be unique, universal and that will solve some of the burning issues such as protecting the disturbed climate on our planet, then water safety, food, resources, etc. And in order to cut the story short, I'm just going to say which are the main papers in the new patent law compared to the old law. So, first of all, a significantly larger number of terms and terms used in this law as far as he counts, there are 31 concepts that operate in this law, and then predict the right to appeal that can be given to the Institute of Intellectual Property. Furthermore, the paper is also the entry of pledges by patent authors into the IPR registry, and the possibility of applying patents per so-called. The European methodology, the European patent convention, on the other hand, is a civil and legal protection with the possibility of a lawsuit in the event of infringement of intellectual property rights. Furthermore, one of the newspapers would be the introduction of a review as an emergency legal remedy against judicial decisions taken in the second degree. This practically opens the door and the possibility for those who have not been able to do so so so far, and who peopleally like to be tried again in an act before the court for the protection of their usurped rights and from the field of intellectual property. Well, then, it is mandatory to draw up a search report on each specific application for a patent, and it is also envisaged to adopt a special sublaw, under the name of the patent law, which would in fact implement the provisions of this law in practice. All in all, the good side of this law is that, as far as I could see, no additional agency was envisaged to form for its realization, which we must admit and was not the case with previous laws because we were practically used to in this assembly that every new law was followed and set up by the agency, and the promoter stated that no additional funds from the Republic budget were needed, which is also one facilitating circumstance. Finally, when it comes to this law, I must say that the SRS parliamentary group does not share the opinion of the proposings given in the explanation, which is, quote, legal protection of inventions promotes activity in the industrial and crafts sector, contributes to the expansion of economic activities, enables transfer of technology and increases export potential. Just a few days ago, on state television, the RTS daily released official data from the Statistics Institute that the decline in industrial production in Serbia is more than 5%. Now, as the promoter thought this would increase the export potential we really don't understand, it's likely that in some imaginary way. So much for the first patent law, now I'm going to move on to this second one. So the second law in this mini set of two laws is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the current version of this law was adopted in December 2009. So, it wasn't long ago, but the euro mentors are not satisfied with certain provisions and many EU directives have not been introduced into this law, so today it is in the correctional, it is specifically explained in so-called. a response to the EU questionnaire, chapter seven, to the right of intellectual property from which it can be seen in that annex that we received under the law what all EU gentlemen believe should be changed. So, in order for Serbian citizens to get a little picture and about this law, I will briefly try to explain some of its main provisions, so I have to deal with statistics. So, this law has 226 members who are assigned to nine chapters, these are the first chapter – the subject of the law, where it determines who this law applies to and what it deals with. The second chapter – copyright, so the rights of the author are both moral and property. The third part – related rights, here we have the rights of interpreters, rights of phonogram producers, film producers, rights of emission manufacturers, rights of database manufacturers and rights of publishers. The fourth part – the exercise of copyright and related rights, is that there is an individual and collective copyright where collectively it can only be achieved through this so-called. collective copyright protection organisations. The fifth part of the law concerns the composition and appointment and competence of the Commission for Copyright and Related Rights. Part 6 – copyright records and related rights items. So the essence of that sixth part is that the data that exists on the record is considered accurate and true until proven otherwise. The seventh part of copyright protection and related rights, you see, this part is most interesting to me, so I'm going to make two specific examples later on. The seventh part is a criminal provision, and the last part is a transitional and final provision. If we look at where the most changes are made, then the most changes to Chapter II copyright changes are as many as 20 members, then to Chapter IV, the achievement of copyrights of nine amendments and to Chapter III related rights, seven amendments. So that's what the EU obviously wants to change. I said that for me, this head of law is the most interesting protection of copyright and related rights, and that it would better support two specific examples: copyright is protected by someone's copyright and a very interesting case from 2000, when the president of the SRS is Dr. Vojislav Seselj provided information that he was a regular professor of law school Dr. Stevan Liliæ, practically prescribed his doctoral dissertation by Dr. He lies to Kostic, who was published before World War II. So, that's practically proven, dr. Seselj then held the version of Laza Kostic's work, the version of Stevan Lilić's work, and it is normal that the logical conclusion is that Laza Kostic could not prescribe the work on Lilić, but vice versa. I know it's been proven by the court, but I don't know that anything has changed, which just illustrates the known fact whether the better and the worst law is if it's respected and implemented in practice, from the paper of the best law that's never applied in practice. I'm going to name one yet characteristic example, an SRS initiative to enlighten the former minister Dr. Gashi Knezevic took away a doctoral dissertation titled "Meditual right to a trade agreement on international sales of goods", as Mr. Todorovic at a session on 24 March 2011, I have this stenogram, meaning also, in one hand, held the work, it is some work as far as I can see from the French speech area, a group of authors, and in the other hand it was just translated by Mr. Gaš Knezevic. A procedure is under way in which the SRS insists that the doctoral dissertation of the former minister of education is pure plagiarism. I'm interested if Mr. Obradovic knows how far it has come to bring out people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, it is still launched in March, it is now September, so we have no feedback. So, as far as the details of this law are concerned, we are not going to talk about it now, but in the next presentations, my colleagues from the parliamentary group will talk about the principle law, and the specific details when the amendments are discussed, because the SRS parliamentary group has submitted about 40 and some amendments to both laws, and in the debate day, we will specifically explain our views and principles under these two laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59311	Whether any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are reporting for a word that they are using their right to present themselves in this part of the session. Please log in to the electronic system. Since no more than the president, or authorised representatives, are applying for a word, I would like to inform you that they agree to Article 56(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principled search for a word in writing, and with the order of the MPs of the SRS-JS parliamentary groups, the New Serbia parliamentary group, the ZES parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group, the SRS group and the parliamentary group Forward Serbia, we move to the part of the session when the right to speak is given by MPs in accordance with the application for a word and order, and on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and in a joint principle search, on the proposals of the law referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the agenda. The first registered speaker is MP Djordje Milicevic, and after that, MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59312	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, has two important proposals ahead of us. It's about the draft law on patents and amendments and additions to copyright laws. What I would like to say very clearly at the outset, among other things, is what counterpart Kasalovic said in his presentation, the SPS – JS parliamentary club in the voting day will support the patent bill, because above all we believe that such a defined legal proposal will improve patent protection in Serbia, which should actually be a fundamental and priority objective. This legislative proposal also introduces some new legal institutions. Essentially, many issues change significantly in this area, and I think that the proposed law changes even half of the members of the current law, i.e. the current and current law, and we think that a better solution to the new law than to the proposal for amending and supplementing the existing and applicable law. Since we are talking about a new legislative proposal, we also think it is very important that a proposal for a patent law, just before this debate and entering the assembly procedure, a quality public debate has been conducted. The basic reasons for our view of the adoption of this legislative proposal are, Serbia needs a clear and secure patent system, then, it is necessary to remove all those perceived weaknesses, shortcomings when it comes to the current applicable law. It is necessary to comply with our legislation, to regulate this area in accordance with international agreements and regulations of the EU and of the World Trade Organisation. The reasons for us are fully justified, acceptable, and from another old and goal which is to achieve the adoption of this legislative proposal is fully justified for us, to encourage inventors and scientists to create and, on the other hand, to invest in the legal protection. And we believe what Mr. Obradovic said, that he actually guarantees monopoly rights to use, but also the right to prevent unauthorized production and sales of patent products. So, this bill is very precisely defined who has the right to produce, what is the injury and the measures that are taken if injury occurs. In order to protect producer rights more effectively, the right to appeal is also provided, and as is said, conditions and ways of obtaining protection and ways to submit patent applications that have facts outside Serbia are prescribed. Essentially speaking, we have a quality legislative proposal ahead of us, and what is extremely important after adoption is the second step to be taken when it comes to this legislative proposal, which is its implementation and its application in practice. Also, the SPS-JS parliamentary club, in the voting day, will support and propose amendments and amendments to the copyright and related laws, because by adopting this proposal, the area will be fully in line with European regulations, EU directives and provisions on trade aspects of intellectual property rights, although the Law on Property in 2009, seems to me. On the other hand, this change and the addition are actually a guarantee of protecting the interests of the author in Serbia. So, the changes predict a ban on multiplying books, textbooks, professional literature, and this certainly is a good way to prevent the threat of copyright. Another segment I would like to point out when it comes to the proposed changes and additions to these amendments and additions to the bill, when it comes to, for example, the author of art, the author must be informed of the resale of his work and, of course, to receive a certain amount of cash compensation. Therefore, these changes and additions should allow both authors of literary and other works of art in Serbia to be better and more fully protected. Once again, it is clear, and this proposal will have the support of the SPS-JS parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59313	Five minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59314	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Mr Minister, we have today's amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Patents Act. When you look at the reasons that the Government as a bill promoter these two laws, it is clear that it is the exact same situation that we had just before this summer break, when we adopted amendments and additions to the Air Traffic Act. Namely, this law has recently adopted, as well as this one, whose amendments and additions we are discussing today, and the law has been found to be in line with the most modern standards applied in developed EU countries, so again, following remarks, which the EU institutions have put on some solutions in it, we have had to approach its amendments and additions. Today, the same situation is practically the same story. In December 2009, we adopted the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and incorporated into it the most modern solutions from international conventions and contracts that treat this area. After less than a year and a half, we are literally forced to deal with this issue in parliament again, as we have received objections from the EU to a large number of solutions in it. From the very above, the fundamental question is raised – are we the parliament of a non-dependent European state, which is based on the resolution of the fundamental problems of citizens and the needs of citizens and which is as such independent of the executive government or are we just an instrument of government that once again, without any critical attitudes, adopts any objections and recommendations that come from the side? Until we take a clear position on this issue, we will be constantly in a situation where we are dealing with things that are usually not of the vital interest of the citizens of Serbia at some point or are practically inadmissible in our circumstances, and that we are therefore not paying attention to the problems that we are all facing in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the New Serbia Parliament Club, as well as many times so far, and in this debate in principle and specifically through the amendments, will try to prevent the possibility of us not getting in the way again, because this is kind of a correctional exam for you who are making these laws. We are in parliament obliged to help as much as we can, especially us from the opposition, but still we should not fall in June, and again in September, then you repeated the class. In particular, I will list three essential problems of these proposed changes. We'll try to fix it so there won't be a retrial, see you here in a few months or some future parliament is doing something again. We're wasting our time because we're dealing with something that, in principle, the citizens of Serbia, about this, doesn't tang. Serbian citizens have much more problems than to deal with these kinds of things. And the question is whether people who do these things are competent enough to bring out all these problems. I hope so. If it's any mistake, we'll try. For example, in Articles 7 and 8. The bill, which is amended by the members of the 35th and 36th current law, states itself that the right to follow the authors, works of fine art has existed in our legal system for more than 30 years, but that at the same time it is practically impossible to implement it, given the fact that there is no tradition of trade in artistic objects in Serbia and that most of the traffic takes place between natural persons, far from the public's eyes. So it turns out that these specific provisions are only implemented to satisfy the mere form and requirement of foreign institutions, and without serious intention to try in some way and really protect the right to follow the artist's work of art. In Article 10, which is amended by Article 40. The law envisions the obligation of public libraries to give the author a copy of which they give at the service, pay a certain fee. I think this is another example of non-critical implementation of the norm which, in our circumstances, counterproductive because we have recently looked back on the financial, material position of most public libraries in Serbia. This does not indicate the amount or method of calculating the fee in question, which also raises suspicions that the proponent is serious in the intention to integrate this standard into life-practical relations as well. What I think is crucial to account for is that in Article 35, which treats the right to follow, it is explicitly pointed out that for the obligation to pay the artist a piece of art, the buyer and the mediator and the seller corresponds in solidarity. Article 44 shall be introduced in Article 217. The law of fines for legal or natural persons as participants in the transaction relationship in question. Now that key conclusion regarding this article – however, it is not stated how the entity that pays the fee under the threat of fines is regressed from the remaining participants in the buy-in business. I hope that these remarks that we will have in mind through the amendments and in the debate in particular. Indeed one wish, Mr. Minister, to fix the law, to help you. Of course, we have always done this as New Serbia in one concrete way and a very large number of New Serbia amendments submitted in one way that always and in every jurisdiction of the law have been corrected by a large number of amendments accepted. I will use a minute, two discussions, I hope Mrs. Comic will allow a slight exit from the point, but only the treasure. Mr. Minister, I want to thank you for everything you did on the New Serbia proposal when it comes to students in the King last year. I know you asked for the full amount to be released, related to the earthquake situation. Of course, it's accepted 50. Here's a nice way for New Serbia to co-operate with ruling parties. You have accepted our proposal on behalf of the King's students, who are not on the budget, I thank you. I just want to ask you, given the difficult situation, the earthquake that was in the King, the basic school "Dimitrija Tucović" with the highest tradition in the Kingdom of over 500 years with nearly a thousand students, and still the basics go with the short hours, is late with school completion, the champions go in one very bad first impression of the shortened hours, huge crowds, four shifts. The eights will be in an unfavourable position due to their entrance exams. It's taking too long, Mr. Minister. It's very nice to see you on TV, I say hello, these days in Borca, school's over in a hundred days. All the praises about it, but there is an internal Serbia, there is something called an earthquake. It was very important for it to end before the school year started. I hope you'll make an effort to bring this to an end, and it would be a basic order for a school with such a tradition, perhaps the only school in the center of town without a sports hall, because it's devastating to watch children at minus 20 practice in front of a school in the center of the Kings. I think you'll find the possibility that this project that exists for a long time is being realized. Thank you for your attention. I apologize for this small deviation, I think it's something that has hit the King's not only royal problem, but this Parliament and all of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59315	Eight minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Ljiljana Zdravkovic, a folk MP, has the word, followed by Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59316	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, bearing in mind that the current Law on patents of the former state union of Serbia-Montenegro was passed in 2004, the need and obligation to pass a new patent law that will be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Ministrys. Since the proposed law amends and complements more than half of the members of the applicable laws, it is necessary to pass a new law, not to make amendments and additions. Decisions under the proposed law are the result of reviewing the solutions prescribed by the applicable law, through application in practice from 2004 to today and compliance with international agreements and EU rules. The primary objective of the proposed law is to strengthen the legal protection of inventors, i.e. the new law strengthens legal protection of patents and small patents. A significant newspaper compared to the current law is the introduction of a mandatory report on the search of the state of the art by the subject of the finding, before the publication of the patent application. The proposed provisions aim to reduce the time in which the applicant of the patent application receives the first information on whether there are documents in the technical state that challenge the novelty or inventivity of the finding for which he submitted the application. On the basis of the proposed solution, the procedure will be effective, and applicants will be in a more favourable position, as they will be allowed to, if they consider the necessary implementation of the patent adjustment before the patent application is made public, and that means before the patent application becomes available to the public. In addition to that, applicants are allowed to handle this report when making important decisions, such as: applying for an essential examination of patent applications, submitting requests to protect their search outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia or investing funds in the production of the find in question. New provisions governing the protection of small patents have been introduced in relation to the applicable law. The proposed law states that a small patent has the same inventive level as a patent. This paper is proposed for the reason that the applicable law does not define the inventive level of the small patent, and in practice there are no criteria for establishing the inventive level required for patents. It is therefore considered fairer that for a small patent the same inventive level as for a patent is required. The next difference between the proposed law and the valid view is that the subject of protection by small patent must be only a solution relating to the construction of a product or the layout of its components, so that it no longer covers the configuration. Namely, since the configuration refers to the shape or layout of the elements, when very broad and undefinedly defining which object is concerned, it was necessary to leave out the same, and the component layout covers the layout in the structure. Also, when it comes to the number of patent requirements, the application of a small patent may contain one independent patent request and no more than four addicts, which is more favourable than a valid legal solution. The proposed law introduced an examination of a recognised small patent at the request of a small patent holder. Recognising a small patent, for which an application for examination has been submitted, is fully examined according to the criteria prescribed for the essential examination of patent application. The reason for the introduction of the institute of a recognised small patent was due to the observed frequent abuses of a recognised small patent. When it comes to finds that can be protected by a small patent, in practice it is common that a particular person or a business entity before the date of submission benefits from production for a long time such discovery and the same development, and that another person who does not use such invention in production at all, but only has knowledge of it, submits an application for the protection of a small patent. In order to exclude those abuses, the proposed law is prescribed by the Institute of Studies of a recognised small patent. The last newspaper prescribed by the proposed law, as regards the small patent, refers to its duration. Since the proposed law requires the examination of a recognised small patent at the request of a small patent holder, it is prescribed for the duration of a small patent period of 10 years. The proposed law introduces the possibility of examining the application of the patent by emergency procedure, at the request of the court or competent authority, the market inspection or the customs authority, as well as at the request of the applicant. In relation to the current patent law, the relevant paper represents the introduction of the right to appeal against decisions of the authority responsible for intellectual property affairs. The proposed provisions aim to fully achieve two-stage integrity through the introduction of the appeal procedure as the basic principle of administrative procedure, thus achieving more effective administrative control over the legality of the decisions of the Institute of Intellectual Property. In the end, I would like to say that the government, or the resolution ministry, has been very studioly preparing this proposal for patent laws. The working text of the draft law has been made public on the website of the Institute for Intellectual Property, and a roundtable has been held in the public debate, so that all entities interested in the protection of find rights issues have been allowed to participate and many of them have taken part and contributed to the development of such a good proposal for patent laws. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are aware, as well as many citizens who deal with inventions and economic operators and the scientific public, that patent protection plays an outstanding role in every society. Globally, patent law draws more attention, and the Republic of Serbia supports the World Intellectual Property Organisation's efforts to ensure a better understanding so that the patent system and innovation can help address some of the challenges facing the world. Given that in the Republic of Serbia, the growing importance of investing in scientific and research work and the development of innovative work, where DS is making a major contribution, strengthening the legal protection provided to rightholders from the published patent application, as well as patent holders and small patents is essential. So I invite you all to vote on this bill in the day of the vote. There's something else I want to say. When it comes to this subject, we can't help but remember and regret that in the last and the last centuries at the world level there was no better understanding, better rules, good contracts and laws, so who knows how many more inventions would bring the name of our world inventor Nikola Tesla. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59317	Thank you. I give my word to the MP, Mrs. Donki Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59318	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, employed by the ministry, respected fellow MPs, since my colleague from the parliamentary group Svetlana Stojanovic mostly spoke about amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, the most I will discuss about the patent bill. You, when I say you think of the promoters, point out that the adoption of this new patent law is necessary and that the old, or applicable law has been in force since 2004, and that many shortcomings have been observed. Practically and you point out, and you've made a few groups of changes. The first group of amendments refers to terms, i.e. you tried to get the termologically in line with this law with the Constitution and the Ministry Act, etc. Then there's one group of changes, at least you're saying that it's your attempt, to remove those problems and shortcomings that have arisen in practice, and by applying this present one, to call it an old, or valid law, and that you've also tried to remove these problems. What the practice has shown is that it's problematic, at least that's how you claim in the explanation, you're trying to remove it here. By the way, this is one of the few bill proposals that has so extensively, let me say, a huge explanation. It's for all praise. The explanation, among other things, contains what the other draft laws almost never contain, a notice to us and the public about how the public debate on this bill has been under way. You have well stated what remarks you have accepted in this public debate, and at the end of that report, practically from a public debate, you speak and which remarks you did not accept and why. So that such an explanation, an explanation that should be found after each proposal, or under any bill or new law that comes into this congregation. Another group of amendments is conditioned that some international agreements and conventions in the Assembly have been ratified in the meantime. It is particularly important to ratify the Convention on the Recognition of European Patents. It seemed to me, on 1 October 2010, that Serbia has become a full member of the European patent organisation since 1 October 2010. Now this accession brings some newspapers regarding the submission of international patent applications. That, I suppose, has been possible so far, but with some other and probably more difficult procedure. One group of amendments concerns harmonisation of laws with EU directives and regulations. That's what my colleague used to say, when she talked about this first law set in this set of laws, and she warned that this kind of complete, to say, 100% harmonisation of laws with European directives and regulations, is often the result that sometimes the whole of the law is simply inapplicable to us, because some directives are really applicable in the Netherlands or Belgium, but through practice it shows that it is very difficult in Serbia, so that laws often remain dead letters on paper. What also concerns you seems to be the only one in the government who believes in your pre-election invention, to say find, with not knowing if you still have the right to a patent from the IPR. This patent or pre-election invention is called – Europe has no alternative. I guess you didn't get a patent from the Bureau because it simply insults intelligence, because it's not intellectual property protection. It seems that only you do not hear voices from the EU countries and from officials. Recently, Angela Merkel, who said only a year ago – after Croatia becomes an EU member, will not be admitted for long. This harmonisation of ours is a pretty wasteful job and distracting citizens. In this bill, to illustrate, you have the last Article 177 which bears the title – the termination of the importance of the provisions of this law. You are even predicting and saying in this law -- the provisions of this law that regulate the mandatory patent license relating to the production of pharmaceutical products, for exports to countries with public health problems, cease to apply on the day of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. I have to say you're a great optimist, or you're absolutely uninformed. The bill promoter, as I said, delivered a very large explanation. I said it was commendable. However, this bill is quite extensive. When you compare yourself to some other countries in the region, and you say that you consulted their laws, and that you have seen each other, we have twice as many provisions and members of the laws of those other countries. But in this explanation, we have interesting things, such as page 145, where you ask questions and you give answers, but this question and answer are interesting. It is question number four, where you ask and say, and answer – who and how will be affected by the proposed solutions of this new law, the patent law. There is the first sentence that says – patent protection plays an exceptional role in every society, which is true. Globally, patent law attracts growing attention and the Republic of Serbia supports the efforts of the world's intellectual property organisation to ensure a better understanding, etc. So, in the first part, it is clear that Serbia supports all finders in the world and that we are clear about the importance of innovation and invention. In that part of the argument, you say, and I am already concerned because it is not true – given that in the Republic of Serbia, investments in scientific and research work and development of innovation work are becoming increasingly important, because of the fundamental importance of legal protection. Sometimes when I read what came from the government, I think we don't live in the same country, or that you live in another country. When it comes to investment in science, in institutes, in scientific and research work, separations from the Republic of Serbia's budget are small, minimal. You will now say that the economic crisis, etc., has been so for several years. Our allocations are slightly larger than the separation from the Republic of Albania's budget. Given the increasing importance of this, that's not true. How much of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic cares about the state of science, it also says that during the reconstruction of the government that took place a few months ago, it was the Prime Minister who found it for the subsequent abolition of the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. That ministry or the whole area is attached to the Ministry of Education. Two huge ministries are connected. And how you're doing it now, and if you're doing your job and your duties now, I know that, but I'm not going to talk about it right now. You've also found it indicative that you should suspend the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society. The area is attached to the Ministry of Culture. The very fact that the government has been reconstructed speaks about how much the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government in Serbia attaches importance to science and scientific research. What's also worrying is that you from the government didn't look at the petition and the appeal signed by over 5,000 scientists and researchers, simply asking you not to do so, not to abolish the Ministry of Science, because the Ministry of Science existed 65 years in this form or that form. It used to be the Ministry of Science, so it was covered by ecology, but after 65 years, this government found it appropriate, didn't even blink to abolish the Ministry of Science. All the things I've been talking about, unfortunately, points out, and I'm going to repeat, that this government doesn't care about the development of science and research, so I can say that it doesn't even care about increasing the number of patents, i.e. finding and new solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59319	Thank you. I give my word to MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59320	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs. Minister, if you remember, we had before this summer's break the Optical Disc Act. That's when I put out a series of information that concerns me. I'll remind you, since that's when you said when the copyright and related rights law comes on the agenda that we're going to have a little bit more sex and talk about it. However, this new bill of copyright and related rights does not solve their problems that I once pointed out. Namely, the optical disc importers are facing the next problem. They started working, say, in 2007-2008, I'll give you an example of an importer, after two three years of work, in 2009 a memo from a collectively-reacted organisation, an organisation called "PI". They are asked for cash compensation, to pay 30 pairs per CD, and for DVD 60 pairs, or for how it is in percentages of purchase value of 4.3% and 6%, respectively. I ask the question how and on what grounds does this organization have the right to charge for copyright when it comes to blank optical discs, there's nothing on them? So they're importers of blank optical discs, empty imports, empty sales. What copyrights exist over these discs? On what grounds does this organization charge? Then what's going on? It takes place in 2010 that the organisation OFPS appears. Worse, they demand retroactively, for 2008, for 2009 and 2010, to pay them the same. For 2008 and 2009, it looks for 11 million dinars, and for the first quarter of 2010, another two million, a total of 13 million dinars. That's what they want to be paid for within three days. These companies, these importers who have all these years had no such gain. The question arises, first of all, on what basis do they charge for it? Second, how do two organizations charge the same? OFFS charges 3% of the purchase value up to 5% if not paid regularly. So the third question is – they charge at completely different prices. It's a general mess. In this Article 2. The bill of law is what the author's work is. Copyright work, beautifully written, are written works, speech works, drama, music works, film works, works of art, works of architecture, cartographic works, plans, theatre directorship. Is any of this on those disks? No, absolutely nothing. Then what do they charge for allegedly copyright? What else is interesting? When these organizations charge that amount, it says 40% go to the authors. Which authors when the disk is empty? It says that 30% go to phonogram producers and 30% to interpreters. Which interpreters when the CD is empty? Let's move on, he says – the organisation, as it stands in this bill, is not set up to gain profits. So what do they do with profits when they charge for this from blank drives? To whom do they pass, when there are no authors and no interpreters? Where does that money go? Who are they forwarding them to? Article 157 states – only one organisation can obtain permission to collectively exercise copyright or related rights. So it was standing and now it's standing, and I've just mentioned two organizations that charge copyright, and the law says only one organization can do it. What's the big deal? When this organisation charges copyright, it goes first to the agreement between them and the copyright users. If no deal is reached, then this organisation makes a proposal to the commission, and the commission decides whether to adopt or not. What's the big deal? The problem is this – the commission is composed of the president and the members appointed by the Government. I will now read to you the part that says – during the preparation of this law, some initiatives have been put forward for the amendments and additions of this law, as has been done by OFFS, just the organization I mentioned. So, this law to you, or to you, has been making proposals for the organization OFPS, which charges. Afterwards, it goes to the adoption of a commission made up of members on a proposal from the government, and the law was written by the OFPS and the Government. Who makes OFPS? Grand production, City Records and Communa and other organizations. Maxa Ćatovic, Saša Popovic, Cvetkovic etc., they write you the law. And the worst part is, they wrote you the law, you put it here, and then they charge the copyright at the prices they want, because it's in agreement with the government. It's nowhere to be found. What is further controversial is why this law was passed. As you yourself have stated, i.e. amendments and additions to this law, you yourself wrote this, because of the EU directive, exclusively because of it. That's what you wrote, because of the seven directives. It says – the Directive on the coordination of certain rules relating to copyright, etc. Then, second – the Directive on the legal protection of computer programs. Third, the Directive on the right to lease and certain rights related to copyright in the field of intellectual property. Fourth – Directive on the period of protection of copyright and certain related rights. Fifth – Directive on legal protection of the database. Sixth – The Directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. Seventh – the Directive on the right to resell in favour of the author of the original works of art. Is it possible that we ourselves can't write anything? Do we have to do everything by directive? One thing is how this is applied to the EU, and the other is how it is applied here. In the EU, some OFFS organisation will not set the price and everything else, it does not happen there. The law, if applicable in the EU, does not mean that it will be applicable to us. As the main objective, as you have stated, which is why these amendments to the law are being passed – the main objective of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is to achieve full compliance with the domestic law with the EU legal order. Is it possible that's the main objective? Isn't the main goal something in favour of Serbian citizens? Isn't it the main goal of protecting these copyrights? I guess that's the main objective of the law, huh? No, you don't write that. Your main goal is to bring it into line with the EU. I'm sorry, please, I'm, say, a Russianophile, but I can't say tomorrow if I'm in power -- we're adopting this law because it's the same law in the Russian Federation. It's idiotic. You're alleging that that's the only goal and that's the main objective. This man wrote that sentence. You suggest he be the most European for next year. This is just amazing what your goal is when you write the law. To end, there were more words, and you mentioned piracy, it'll be the same again, they'll be forced off the streets by those small retailers, and the main fish won't be caught. The question was asked, I repeat again, what happened to the person who copied the entire portions of the textbook of the administrative right of Prof. Dr. Lase Kostic, who was betrayed before World War II? The whole section was prescribed by Dr. Stevan Liliæ, and he didn't answer for it until today. What happened to former Minister of Education, Gus Knezevic? The entire doctoral dissertation was prescribed by the author of the second book. He practically didn't write anything himself. (President: I would like to draw your attention to the subject of the bill. I'm finishing and closing. Both have violated copyrights, and no warning has been given to them to this day. What's the law for if it's not implemented? I ask another question in the end – why are copyrights charged to importers who sell blank optical discs? Why do organizations, like OFFS and others, write to you and suggest what the law should look like? Why so many EUs in this law, almost every other sentence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59321	I give my word to Miss Milic Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59322	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, dear guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we continue our policy of joining dots that are related or disproportionate, but this time, in this choice you've made, I chose to talk about the patent law, not because others are less important, but because, reading the explanation, I was really irritated and I have to share with you what is the story that I think hurts every Serb in this country. This area has so far been governed by the 2004 law, it's a law from the old SCG State Community, and it's perfectly fine that you're fixing this law now and, since you're fixing more than half of that law, it's just fine that you can call it a new law. I'm saying this because the old law caused some misunderstandings in the interpretation and that there were in practice really several very important things that needed to be resolved and, above all, when it came to interpretation, what is patent, what is a small patent, what is the concept of multiple persons who worked together on patents, what is protecting small patents and these procedures. I think it's okay that this law now covers it, that we should talk about it, but I think it's even more important that the law that covers this area actually needs to resolve its own bond relations and it needs to protect all forms of property. And any law that touches this area needs, above all, to strengthen the legal protection of the patent holder. This law has tried it. My impression is he didn't get far in that area. Now, about what I started when I started this exhibit of mine. In your explanation, you state with which international documents you are with and with which all international contracts you have agreed this bill, which is before us, and it has a lot to do with it. What was interesting to me was to look at some of the other laws in the environment, to see if they really, in their reasoning there say what documents they are, so we come to the conclusion that, let's say, Croatia, which, at the door of the EU, does not have all of these documents in its law, which you state here. You're really stating that with a lot of documents, some I recognize as very important, but for some I really don't think it's important that we agree with them so much. Let's say I ask you again what's the problem, which is why a country that is at the door of the EU does not have to comply with its legislation with such documents, and that is why Serbia has to agree? It seems to me that it's a very simple answer. This government, in fact, has no measure in EU courtship. The same EU, which is here for the last time in the image of Angela Merkel, who visited us, very clearly, openly and without a dilemma, said that Serbia must recognise KIM as a completely independent state, that it must give up the northern part of KIM and the regular institutions, although in the northern part, the majority of the population is Serbian, and that you, such an EU, are going to meet by doing all that it asks of you and, in doing so, convincing Serbian citizens that you will never give in to these pressures and that you are actually protecting the territory that is provided for by the Constitution. But what is incompatible between what you are saying and what are works that adorn you is a very big misunderstanding, and the people say that actions always speak more than words. And when Mrs. Negotiator so-called. The states of Kosovo say you have recognised the seal, which, of course, means for every normal one you have recognised the state, the declared state of Kosovo. Unfortunately, that's what you're doing, and what you're saying is marketing. Now, now the further explanation that I think should be spoken of is to say that you've been doing this proposal by following the laws of Denmark, Australia, Greece and Slovakia. It's perfectly normal for me not to invent hot water and potholes every time, and it's okay to look at the laws of the countries that are arranged and that have installed their laws, but it doesn't make sense to look at countries that are similar to us, for many things. I would like to get an explanation from you where you found this great resemblance between Denmark and Serbia, so you took the Danish model and revised it in this law, and I am even more interested in what is the similarity between you and Australia as a country and Serbia as a country, and where did you find the motive to rewrite the law of Australia to Serbia as it is now? Of course, what you've written is a complete absurdity, not to say it's a rough joke, but since we've already come to see who you've looked up to and who you're comparing yourself with, I'd like to ask you -- is there a Serbia with a government like this at the head and with a president like this, any country in the world that you could look up to and might compare to, say? Is there also a country in the world that calmly gives 15% of its territory, which peacefully teaches its citizens for a foggy idea of its government representatives?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59323	Ma'am, Markovic, I'd just like to go back to the session agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59324	This is the agenda. I'll go back to that agenda you say. Next, this law, which is a really big law, it has 178 members and we can say it's a big law. You're saying that within six months you're going to pass a sublegal act that should follow this law, it's a rule on the implementation of the patent law and you say a minimum of six months is necessary for that sublegal act to be passed. But the law comes into force eight days from the moment it was adopted in the Assembly and it was in the Official Messenger. So my question is, what's going to happen these six months until you write the rule book, if you write it? You here give an explanation and say – we will apply the old rule, an old law that has only been passed in connection with the 2004 law. And you say that further – in cases where they are not contrary to this law, but they will exactly be contrary to this law, because you have changed the law to improve the situation that is in practice. So what happens then, how are you going to solve these situations in six months? It's a question that's interesting and I'd like to get in answer. But what's fascinating, it's your relaxation, it's amazing. A relaxed government, a relaxed minister, relaxed laws, inertly, lazy without a shred of self-respect, are our laws. This law is an example of that. So, repainted, without a shred of Serbian in it. What I would like to send as a message to the citizens of Serbia, gentlemen, the elections are close, look who you will round up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59325	Thank you. National MP Dusan Maric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59326	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the draft copyright law, it is in good faith in practice. The full protection of copyright and related rights provided for by this law would not be possible in a European legal state, let alone in Serbia. In a debate on the draft copyright law two years ago, one of the colleagues of the SRS said and was right, in order to control the implementation of this law, it would be insufficient to employ more than 100,000 people. The second observation is that the writing of this bill was not used to remove some objections, some of the shortcomings that we pointed to in the debate in the basic text of the law. I'm going to refer to a few mildly speaking, in my opinion, to the far-fetched legislative solutions set out in this bill. I quote Article 12, new or member of the 43rd Old Law: "It is allowed to report to the public through press, radio, television, other media on current events, in the scope of which it responds, the manner of reporting on the current event, without the author's permission and without paying the copyright fee", and under three, "the multiplication of public, political and religious and other speeches held in state bodies, religious institutions, or during a state or religious ceremony". So I repeat: "It is permitted to transfer public, political, religious and other speeches without the permission of the author and the payment of taxis, only if they are held in state bodies, religious institutions or during state and religious ceremonies". I wonder if the people who wrote this know what they wrote. This means, practically, that journalists are not allowed to broadcast and publish speeches and statements from party meetings, political rallys, matches, concerts and other cultural-sport events, if they have not previously provided permission from authors, those who have given a speech and paid them a certain copyright fee. When a politician gives a speech in the congregation, then all journalists, so without any restrictions until they're willing, can use that speech the way it suits them, if that same politician holds that same speech in front of the press, have to ask him for permission and have to pay him a copyright fee. Not only does this not seem logical but it is a little contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to the Law on Public Information. If this remains the media and journalists will not be able to do their job properly, and citizens will remain deprived of information from most political cultural and sports events in Serbia. I'm going to give an example based on this example to explain what I said. Imagine, for example, when Mladjan Dinkic, at the time of the election campaign, goes to block 64 and says that all voters who vote for the URS and other pro-European parties who will introduce Serbia to the EU in 2389, will all receive a free trip to Mars and another 1,000 euros of shopping allowance on this friendly planet. Under this law, to make this public, journalists will first have to ask Mr Dinkic for permission. When he agreed to announce his complete speech, journalists only finished a third of the work. After that, any reaction remains to agree with the former minister what is the amount of compensation we will pay for this author's work? Many of you will think Dinkic doesn't have to charge fees for publishing his speeches when I say Dinkic I mean all politicians, unfortunately this law says he has to. In the case of members of 4. 9th of this Bill, i.e. Articles 22 and 39 of the Basic Law on the Protection of Copyright, the author cannot give up the right to the compensation for the use of his copyright, and under this law all speak politically, as well as the speeches of public figures, I quote Jelena Karleuš, Novak Djokovic, Natasa Bekvalac, her boyfriend, Qazim Osmani and others as well as the speeches of all Serbian citizens are copyright works, whose publication must be paid anyway. When the newsrooms reach an agreement with Dinkic, the accounting services pay contract amounts, and then couriers rush to the former minister's office to pay him receipts as evidence of payment. Only after that will the citizens of Serbia who love fairy tales be able to hear the complete Dinkic speech and get to know all the details of their future summer trip to Mars. There are two possible solutions here. First, the government accepts the amendment and deletes this pointless provision from the bill, and the second option is that after the adoption of this law, politicians from the ruling parties speak only in state institutions, state bodies, and politicians from opposition parties keep their political speeches only in churches. Which may not be good, because besides the incompetent government in Serbia, besides the friends we have in Brussels and NATO, only God can help Serbia. Now I'm going to look back, briefly on Article 32 of the basic text of the law, he's talking about the right of the author to forbid his work being broadcast via radio or television, re-emissioning, transmission, and speaking in places like city transport, cafes, waiting rooms, etc. without his consent. The implementation of this article of the law is mainly about folk music singers, fun music and is not possible, is not enforceable in practice. I'd like to hear the answer, how whoever wrote this bill thought that the owners of some bar or the owners of all the cafes were asking for consent to listen to the songs of some singers on the radio. We in Serbia have five or 10,000 singers who have recorded at least one song, we have hyper production, nothing like mushrooms after the rain, and now I wonder if the owner of a coffee shop that plays music on the radio should turn individually, all of them for permission, or do it through a public ad. Or how Sheki Turkovic, or Boro Drljac, can forbid the owner of some cafe in Surdulica or a train station manager in the Great Plana or a bus driver in GSB from playing some of their songs. This is possible, only on condition that, say, the driver of GSB is psychic, so he can tell when the author's song, whose broadcast is forbidden, to change the station or to turn off the radio, will be broadcast on the radio. I will comment on another article of the 14th Law, which reads – that public libraries, educational institutions, museums, archives are allowed to multiply the same work into fewer copies that they need without paying for any copyright work, but only if they multiply it from their own copy. This is completely pointless and unacceptable. Here's why. Imagine that in a school, a school library requires one book, a collection of poetry that this school does not have in its possession. The school wants to buy a book, to multiply it into three copies, but there's nothing to do because all copies of the book are sold out, and given the circumstances, the author, rest of his soul, died. There's only one book in that town, and that book is privately owned. According to this bill, the school has two options. One of them's not normal. The first one is to buy a book from the owner and then come into possession of his own copy. We have a problem here what if the owner doesn't want to sell this book. The school has another option, to borrow a book from the owner, and if for the needs of teaching, imagine even three copies, which would be a disaster, right? However, according to the same solution proposed by the government to this Article 14 in multiplying schools, the author's consent must be obtained. Since the poet who wrote the book is no longer among the living, the school must obtain the consent of its legitimate heirs. If the school finds heirs to agree on the amount of compensation, if and after all these peripetias, all these school and teacher Serbian language breakdowns remain in the position that their students should analyse this particular book, they remain under the legal obligation to pay the copyright fee. Now you see what absurdities we have, as counterpart Mladenovic said earlier, on one side we have a phenomenon that the professor of the university, mentioned Stefan Lilic and Gašo Knezevic, are uninterruptedly copying complete doctoral dissertations and progressing in their careers, becoming ministers, and on the other hand, one ordinary poor library, one ordinary school cannot copy into three copies of a particular book that they need to carry out teaching, because my God will endanger the copyright of the author of that book, which under the circumstances died 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59327	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Totic, since you are on behalf of the Government, that is, on behalf of the Institute of Intellectual Property, present, in the context of two draft laws, to speak in an exact way that we do not belong in the EU, or that we should not go to the EU. The patent law is done on 69 pages, on 364 pages of evidence of alignment, i.e. showing someone that we listen to. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, they listen blindly to Boris Tadic's regime. When it comes to the draft amending and supplementing laws on copyright and related rights, the bill is written on 40 pages and the EU's explanation on 390 or 400 pages. So 40 times more is needed, means that we are 40 times smarter than those in the EU and that we find a place to go. I am now sorry that I cannot place the largest number of objections relating to both one law and another on the burden of Minister Zarko Obradovic. For what? It does not mean that it is completely amnesty of responsibility for such a bad and unquality law, because the proposals of these two laws, i.e. the work version, have been done long before so on. reconstructions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, the defeating fact is that Mrs Totic as a member of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, I know that there are also human and professional potentials in your Institute that can make these laws at one top level and that they are absolutely depicted to Serbian citizens on the one hand, on the other hand, the aim of these laws, these are not political laws, is that they form one global continent with these or similar laws in other world countries, without limiting themselves to one part of Europe or any other part of the world. It makes sense that what is valid in the Republic of Serbia, that this is the case in Australia, Canada, China, Russia in other countries, and once it is established that there is some patent here that it is valid throughout the world. The question arises, you said, that it's good that here you're trying to make a high degree of legal protection for those who deal with inventions, and actually the patent is the protection of one discovery and that's not true, is in one I'd say the appropriate way that protection was made. If we were to ask someone who deals with inventions, does he see any improvement compared to the previous 2004 law, he could not find you. How and how do we stimulate representatives of old crafts or industry representatives, because they are individuals of natural persons, to deal with the invention of their company's activity in order to pay sales tax, they have to raise loans and from the total loans taken by companies or businesses, 34% are used to pay VAT. Then how can we stimulate people to deal with finders, and you've shown here nicely in a few tables that we've registered, that in order to protect the finds from year to year declines. Then how can we say that this is all right and that these laws have no objections whatsoever? Mostly, the minister spoke of the benefits of this law, supported by MPs of the assembly majority and no one was more serious about the shortcomings of these laws. We in the SRS have tried, we will not argue if there is anything good, but we have tried to make access to these legal proposals, so you said at the very beginning of the law, if more people submit to protect their invention, they will be considered to be the owners of ideal parts, which is the simplest solution, it already exists in other positive regulations, and it is established on the basis of, or will be determined on the basis of the application that something became a patent, i.e. it has properties that characterise it, and can be protected by patent, then they should have agreed before avoiding any court proceedings, which could occur later. If this law is carefully read and someone who doesn't stand aside from the inventor, or the state, and it's decorated in your office, it's going to get the impression that this law is being passed for the most part because of taxi charges. It is now said that after every third year, or third year, the right acquired and protected, and every year thereafter, if tax is not paid, the right will cease and will immediately, and it is not disputed, because it is just work if you think that the SRS does not need to charge taxes and taxes, then it is your mistake and error. That must seem like it. I'll give you some examples, where the state does not settle its obligations to the citizens of Serbia and it is not disputed that the tax is paid, and you say that the next day will be rejected, the right which is protected will be lost, and whoever has not paid the tax, is said among other things, when it is checked it goes to the meeting to bring a solution to something, first it is checked whether he has paid the tax, and if he has not paid the tax, it will not be through the patent, so there can be a commitment between the inventors and the state or your office and that in the next period he is required and obliged to pay. Not only do we get the impression that because of taxi charges, this law is passed, it's probably not, because when read carefully, it results. The judicial protection from patent law is good, but knowing what our judiciary is like, at which rate it solves certain cases in proceedings, I think this should be avoided, rather than that it took more norms in this law itself that would regulate the protection of the rights and security of the inventor in one other way. The obligation to pay taxes, this is impossible to correct the amendments, because we have submitted a number of amendments, but the approach of the law is such that young finders get rid of those taxes, that multiple finders are also released, because it would be a way of stimulating by the state, and we never needed to get involved in the discovery sphere, than it is today, even though we keep saying that we have to raise industrial productivity, then it is possible if a large number of inventors are involved in that activity and that the state in some way tries to stimulate all of this. You made a request to recognize the championship when you applied for it, so you dedicated over 20 provisions, as if it were a common phenomenon. I'm sure you may not have had one or just a few cases in your practice so far. Legal proposals should match real life, not something that's fiction. The deadlines mentioned in this law cannot be looked back, perhaps 15 members speak of some deadlines, are highly inappropriate, and you are talking about a high degree of legal protection of inventors, or when it is estimated that the application has an importance for the protection and defence of the country, so your authority, will forward the body to the Ministry of Defence, and it is required within three months to respond, and there can be a much shorter deadline to be, and a drastically good example of what I am talking about is that patent application is published as soon as possible in the "Official Messenger", and as soon as possible on the one hand, and on the other hand, it says, after the expiry of 18 months, counting from the day of application, it is announced as soon as possible, and after the expiry of 18 months. Shorter, to move couldn't have been. A formal examination of the application, that's good, but also in the formal examination of the application, it's said again, if the tax is not paid, it won't be considered. The means of security, it's something that's good, and it can look for whom the inventor suspects to abuse and use his invention, and he has to deposit certain funds, if it turns out that his application, even if by judicial protection, is not founded, then he'll be compensated for those costs. You devoted a good part of the argument, a public debate that was held on the draft copyright law, and there was the largest number of lawyers present in the copyright, industrial property, and also representatives, very few representatives of the inventors, because they had to give and do their best, there was one representative from Vojvodina, it doesn't matter, but it took a lot more representatives, inventors to see what their problems were. Your office and state in general, and this government should meet the inventors, it seems to me that about 40 products in Serbia, with protected geographical origin, and I think we could have dozens of times, if not, and a hundred times more than that, and that might be in the jurisdiction of your office, going to meet those people who do business, but we can't when we have such a government. I think you've done as you've done, something of expertise is not enough, but simply, your framework has been set by this government, which doesn't even think about the citizens whose representative she is and who she exists for and whose policy she should also be leading her. In the end, I wish the Minister of Education and Science were here. We in the SRS want a response to plagiarists, because of people who do science, to say whether a procedure has been initiated and by which time it will be resolved. One of them was even, I think, also a commissar in the government of education, when today's state secretary, Mr. Mitrovica, was also one of the commissioners of education in 2000. We want the debate to end in the principle that the minister gives us an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59329	I can tell you on behalf of the minister that you will certainly not be denied the information you want. Because, as you can see, the minister is here. I give my word to the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. You've got 37 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59330	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, these laws were on the home Board of Science and Technological Development. I must tell you that the discussion on the Committee has been quite positive and that we have elaborated a lot of things, trying to sort of clarify certain ambiguities that we have observed by reading and analysing these laws. Surely, the adoption of these laws aims to achieve certain legal regulations, but I also asked the Committee some questions. Unfortunately, this legal regulation is present, but I wonder if even in the last 30 years, 40 years, when business and industry were so strong, when we had a large number of these professional people, people who wanted their knowledge from a particular field, didn't have to be just an intellectual to patent something or invent a certain technological system, and it was very important that in any social system these people couldn't understand. In fact, there was never enough understanding for these patents to be found and formed in a particular implementation. I even mentioned certain patents of professional people on the Science Committee, even when I was working in the economy, when we were trying to implement them, to find their way into the economy. However, they could not find their way into the economy, then Yugoslavia, but, unfortunately, they found their application in other countries, which had understanding where they understood and these empirical or projected patterns we met, so that we could eventually reach a certain goal. I believe that today, and I also said that on the Committee on Science, we are trying to implement everything in a single sentence – this is what we want for the EU. We first need to want it for ourselves, and after that, we need everyone else to form towards us, but we're not being organized towards others. With my visit to the London institutes, I have seen many of our young people working on certain projects there. You well know what the process is, and especially Minister Obradovic, where from the project itself to the production needs to pass one big cycle. When someone, when the one who invented or handed over a particular patent, is now looking for the understanding of those professional people who need to make an assessment of the regulation and implementation of that patent. But unfortunately, very rarely do these patents, whether because of the lack of understanding of those who needed a final assessment to give or those who did not want or did not understand the man who wanted to place his patent, come true. In the end, he tortured all things in the state, unable to find his own goal, he carried it on. I don't need to tell you anything how and in any way. We admire many of our people, famous people, Nikola Tesla, Mihajlo Pupin, etc. But in their time, they couldn't reach their goal in Serbia, but they had to look for others, those who had money or those who had understanding, so they could carry out their patents or their project. We've got money here now, and I hope so. I have to tell you that perhaps the unwritten patents present today in this country, which are patents on how to obtain certain capital in the economy system. Here you can see for yourself how and in any way without this written, without publishing the patent, Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic managed to get to the capital but without reporting their patents came to this sum, i.e. to their capital. You know well how and how they establish contacts, allegedly, with chambers of commerce around the world and Japan, so when they asked Mr. Vukic why he went there, he said – I went there to establish this economic co-operation in the sale of raspberries.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59331	I'm going to ask that there be less plastic displays, more concrete content.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59332	I just wanted a plastic example, to show you, because I can't show that patent here that other patent is invisible, which is impossible, but this economic one is visible, you can see it. That's why I'm telling you. I'd like to ask myself which gram was exported to Japan by these raspberries of our peasants who wanted to use that patent of a dear gentleman. Not to mention other patents, especially Mr Bozidar Djelic who said -- listen, Serbia will be rich and will benefit from the global economic crisis. I wonder how and how we have so far managed to exploit this global economic crisis in favour of our economy. That's why that patent will come out in the future, but we've been waiting for that patent for three to four years and it can't be implemented so we can use it. You see, there are also certain patents on which, unfortunately, Serbia's economy is based, or that visual patentity where certain professional people could constantly patent it, especially at the time of the elections, when certain patents or certain models are needed to fool Serbian citizens so that they can round up certain political parties that they would vote for to continue to lead them. Unfortunately, you can see for myself, I just wanted to implement, or plastically, how and at what beginnings it has been abused so far, or those people who are out of their minds, who are of knowledge, who are virtuosists, who want to make their knowledge, not to cash it, but to find their application in society and that society in general benefits from these patents. You see how, unfortunately, the institute in this troubled state of Serbia has destroyed the whole mind. We keep yelling that we're going to stop the brain drain, put a barrier on so that young people don't leave Serbia, that they don't go with their stomachs after bread, but I'm asking you today as professional people, as people of authority, people of knowledge whether it's possible to stop all of this and put our youth and our brains into a system of benefits. Criminalized privatisation destroyed institutes in large systems, in large factories that were potential power from where all these inventors were pioneering could produce certain results in one future. You should know, when from the project itself to that zero production, a long job has to go to one perfection. Secondly, it requires great financial power, funding. I ask you, today, can any private firm in the state of Serbia finance or want to finance? He won't. They have many who can do it, such as Miskovic and Beko, but they have funded these two, because they have seen that they can reach one economic power, but they will not, they will not, go to safety, that in these two people, who are offering Serbia prosperity today, they are Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic, the system of discovering the Wikilix, how and how they want to help Serbia and the Serbian people, they want to help themselves and their pocket and to make themselves richer and not to help the Serbian people. They are offered as rescuers of the Serb people, but I believe that the Serbian people will understand that these groups of cheaters are people who will cheat on them and whose flossules and various stories cannot fall for their patent project. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as these copyrights are concerned, you know well that firstly, as president of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, I was surprised when two years ago there was a debate about these copyrights, especially the phonograms and the rest of it, to say, the performer of folk music and not to speak anymore. They were more involved in this work, than there were words to copyright, certain intellectual magazines, to protect these copyrights, and that, as we have made a decision on the Committee on Science and Technological Development, certain discussions and constructive discussions, which we have come up with a certain solution that must be protected. I believe once again that Mr. Minister Zarko Obradovic, with his authority, must contribute to today's youth in one position to help this destroyed Serbia today, because without the help of these intellectual young people, believe me, we have no way out. We'll deal with empty stories here. We're going to talk about certain taboo issues, where we're not able to solve them or we can't solve them, but these young people today are ready to step into action, solve all these problems and help this country. I think you'll help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59333	The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word. There's 25 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59334	Gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, today is September 8th and in an extraordinary session we are discussing two very important laws, but the question is also raised for the SRS is the basic issue – is this the most important issue, to discuss these two areas, patents and copyrights in an emergency session? We can put them in one area. Is this the most important thing in society right now or do we have far more important open issues, problems, crises in society and talk about them? For the SRS, this is a non-essential matter, because we've worked this matter out. We have the material laws that are in force, which we apply. We have other areas and other problems in society that we need to talk about, that we need to come here to this congregation to talk about, because they are priority, important, life-threatening, and they have to offer solutions to the crisis in which this society is. What's the government supposed to do and not do? To prepare the reform laws, to prepare laws to address the negative effects of the crisis that has passed. Some say -- it's gone, others say it's far behind us, some say, and the president of the Republic said, three times -- it's gone, so it hasn't gone, etc. His last statement is that we're basically in a crisis, we haven't gone out yet, we have to fight actively so that this other crisis that's ahead doesn't surprise us, etc. Where are the legal frameworks and the bill proposals that we're dealing with all that was the problem with that crisis? Where is that solution to the coming crisis? He's gone. Are we going to solve any of this by this law? We won't. What's the point? The bottom line is that we're wasting time, this is usually a waste of time in the most important state institution, instead of the government doing what needs to be done. What's this all about? It leads to some knowledge that this government has given up its next term. The serious government, a government that is aware of the consequences of the situation in this society, is thinking about entering the next election cycle, but of entering into the ready, prepared, among other things and in a normative sense, in terms of the adequate laws it passed in its term of office when it ruled. That's a good basis for the next term. What kind of situation are we gonna have? We'll have elections next year, we'll have pre-election activities. By the time we come to the constitution of the new Assembly, as the new parliament is re-elected, etc., we will lose a year, a year of huge agony of the entire system, just because we have no legal policy designed. Let's go back to these two laws. According to the European Agenda, for which you swear, you blindly execute, etc., the deadline for the adoption of these two laws was the first quarter of 2010. Who's responsible? Why wasn't that adopted in the first quarter? Do we have an answer? We don't. Eighteen months after the deadline when we were supposed to adopt, we don't have a solution. Now we're getting it in the form you suggested here, but we've lost 18 months of time. Is it the government and the ruling set-up when it wiped out the Ministry of Science and Technological Development? Yes, it is. You swore to the Ministry, the minister, and a great deal was done by the ministry, that a strategy was brought in, but no one opened it afterwards. What does that mean to us, then? We've come up with a strategy. No one's opening it. She predicted huge financial investments in this area and then we shut down the ministry. Yes, a certain continuity will continue in this ministry, but it needs a period of adaptation to both the new ministry and the new organisation, to new systemisation, etc. What do we get? What are we gonna lose? Above all, we won't get anything, and the enormous continuity that is necessary in the work of the state authorities, it's lost. In essence, given the times, we here agree these two legislative projects with projects and legislative solutions and certain directives, certain conventions, agreements, agreements, everything that is the EU's legislative rule. But basically, the question arises, what almost no ministry is, no expert in the ministry looks at and doesn't put into an explanation, which are the basic problems in the functioning of the state body, and what should be done by this law to really improve the situation through the legal framework? What are we going to get with the alignment? Will it improve the work of state institutions, improve practice, eliminate those problems that we have in practice or not? It's only important to agree. What repercussions will lead to real life doesn't matter. It's a mistake by this authority. You can't perform blindly. The Serbian Radical Party has been telling you this for years, do not blindly execute. Two principles of one system's functioning, in this case Serbian and European, cannot be compatible in all situations. Don't overwrite it blindly so we have a match. Every alignment doesn't do you any good. Look, you see how it works in practice, then you bring it back to life. Do not blindly execute orders. What's visible from these two legal proposals is that we don't have a development component here. The Minister of Explanation says we must promote creative law. It's the essence of the law. Do we have, do we have three sentences that speak of this development to the creator, to enable people to deal with creation, find, to go into inventive work and get what we need to do with this law? We may protect it, but what is worth protecting if we don't create preconditions, incentives, excessive financial incentives for people to do, to create and to have in the field of creative rights everything that matters, we have an idea that we will materialize, realize and ultimately protect what we need to protect. You're missing one component. There is no development component with the intended financial injections and certain financial directions from which we will insert the funds and ultimately protect them in a quality way. The tax provisions, I totalled ten taxis that are paid, etc., and which are harmful. We are a man who is inventive, who wants to help this society, because every invention will bring good to this society. Whether in territorial terms, only Serbia, or beyond, that doesn't matter. It's important to allow him to make his findings as fast as possible, as cheap as possible, as easy as possible to patent, to protect and to materialize everything that is provided for in these patents. You here – tax one, tax the other, tax the third, etc. Three months ago, we changed the law and increased administrative fees. We've come up with absurd examples of administrative taxis, and that's how it's gonna be here. Just for a little while more about the fines. Your fines are small, from 100,000 to 2 million and these are small fines. Simply, people will be paid for counterfeiting, stealing, taking away certain patents, etc., as well as widespread use and commercialization of everything that should be protected by the right of each individual. That's it. A fellow Krasic is waiting as a stuck-up rifle to go into construction of this monument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59335	There are 14 minutes and 10 seconds available. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59336	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. At first, I have to say to the public that no one knew what the binding tissue was between these two draft laws. One treats spiritual creation, and the other treats something called profession, science, invention. Look at the miracle, these days the WikiLeaks began to announce the US Embassy's depecs from Belgrade. In those dumplings we find that connective tissue. Why an emergency procedure? Simply to demonstrate commitment to the EU by pro-European and pro-NATO parties in power in the Republic of Serbia, while Serbian citizens forget that there are Serbs at KIM, who they won't even write. I'm surprised you won't write them down, because there are in Strpc, and there are in Kosovo Mitrovica, there are cafes in Leposavic and there are cafes still, thank God, there's Serbian music. You've got these vultures who'd be happy to charge a flat and a tariff. But what he said, WikiLeaks, you have three assignments. The first task is to recognise an independent Kosovo. When you do, it's much better. To turn your back on the Russians and say that Serbia should enter the NATO Pact. You can see both copyright and discovery rights. It's a kind of patent. He's called - Fifth Column at Work. I expected that during these laws we would have an all-seeing Bozidar Djelic, because he is both personally and materially, both spiritually and five-colonesely interested in this topic. Until a few months ago, this area was in his vault. Now, after these construction works since March, they have given it to the ministry headed by Mr. Obradovic. But you can see the handwriting of Bozidar Djelic. You can tell. The manuscript says – everything and everything must be accepted from the EU. That's an urgent reason why this law has to be changed. Because, as you've heard, the EU has no alternative. The EU says, according to Wikilix - in 2019, we will consider whether Serbia is the place in the EU. We can see here that Angela Merkel hit a big hard one in 2009 and said she would not see Serbia's candidacy. Then the Americans said they were from Belgrade, and they think of Cvetka and these, they easily believe in their rhetoric. You know, it's that situation where someone's pathologically lying, he lies so much that he believes in a lie. Today on the political scene we have these non-alternative protagonists of European and NATO politics at all costs, so Serbia can be reduced to 10%, which they don't care about, to force some of their own things and then promote such laws. Are these two laws in favor of creators, inventors and authors, even performers, when we talk about related rights, copyrights? No, they're not. Why didn't they? As European standards, we are forced through laws by people who have only personal benefits. Says the newspaper text, I can transmit it, I don't insult the author. The text begins with the title – the music mafia is harassing Serbia with the help of the Serbian government and its prime minister, too small a frame for their click. The Yugoslav author agency, not existing Stojan Tomic, then performer's rights, and OFFS – a phonogram producer's organisation, then organizes a whole series of purely private institutions, and eventually SOKOJ. So, what does the author, the Prime Minister, the Caesarette, say, is something when he was in Književci, so he collects the silence. It's something again about Mr. Mirk. Then we have his son, Alexander, who says, "Just say something, I'll see you in court." As he said two years ago when he was called, watch what you write. All in one system. Now that would be clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Here's an example, Mr. Beard. Everyone with a number has to pay a TV subscription. If they have two, three numbers, they can get rid of one of the numbers, right? Who decided that? Government. Who defended this in the assembly in that building? It's a bright step. When did this law start to apply? After two years. They also calculated whether to pass the election or not. What happened in the meantime? We got cable TV. Sorosch again, you know. So you pay for the number and you pay twice as much as the cable TV user. If by any chance you have a two-table coffee shop, then you have to pay both the S.O.K. and the phonogram. If he doesn't go for the tariff, he'll go for the bean. The government wants to ban Serb songs from being listened to in Serbia, to listen to weather forecasts, to listen to news, to get basic information. Because if one has a catering facility or a business space, however, wanted to avoid paying, and he doesn't know who's being paid under copyright, performing rights, etc., because a large spectrum of related rights is so large that everyone can fit in, just build an agency and get a license. If that man wants to avoid paying for it, because some get 40,000, 50,000, etc., he can't pay because there's no traffic, his expensive company that you put in the bar. Then he needs to turn off all the noises that can be heard in the coffee shop, and even make sure his fridge isn't working, so he starts buzzing because it's also making some noise. A spy from these two agencies could come by and bring a card. Those in SOKOJ wear something 20 years old, you can barely read that it's authorized and you'll get a lawsuit at a minimum, death rate for someone. You have text in Valjev, you don't listen to music in the cafes. Because in order to get rid of that cobweb, you have to prove pretty much that you don't have a radio, that you don't have a speaker, that you have nothing. Is that what people do? No, I don't. They can't pay. Bozidar Djelic cares that Serbian music is not heard in Serbia, that the books of Serbian authors are not read. Why? Well, we had ministers of the proven plagiarist, Gus Knezevic. There's still some sort of case against him at college. So how can it be the fins and intellectual and political that need to implement some political reforms? (President: Mr Krasic, how do you feel about replacing your obsession with ministers with the text of the law? ) In the end, I left a monument to Slobodan Milosevic, ma'am. I understand, and I am running an action to raise the Free Milosevic monument, you know. I think it's about time, not like you say. It's not time yet. Here, and Mrki supports me. I'll call the citizens. Let him be a symbol of battle too. All of these in The Hague are to receive one monument here, each one of them. Why? Because they're not the fifth column. (President: I would ask you to return to the agenda. You made me talk about the monument, and it's a work of art, you know. The sculpture, it's a work of art and it's covered by the bill. And it is protected, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. (President: You are proposing me to apply the Rules of Procedure. ) You know, these are the pieces that protect themselves. You cannot prevent creation in Serbia. But what you have to do is start criminal proceedings against plagiarists. You remember in 1999 and 2000 that famous stevan lilic? He prescribed the book of the late Laza Kostic and doctored. The court's experts proved he's plagiarized. He was defended by Biljana Kovacevic-Vučo, so she dropped the lawsuit sued by Vojislav Seselj, counting on it to prevent the confusion. Last September 24th election, she remembered, now her judges are here, so maybe she could make it to work. These are the people who are teaching our children. How can they educate our children? There's one provision on the inadmissibility of the use of other people's copyright work. Many should be banned from calling for the works of artists and scientists of Serbian origin. You know how embarrassing it is when pro-European parties during the promotion or at some events, where they go to take pictures, use Serbian folk music or insert folk folklore to fool citizens for another time. Can I say that? Well, I may or may not be allowed to, but your bosses from Washington write who you are, who you are, who you are, who you are, who's on the embassy payroll, who's going to talk, who's struggling, who wants to pose, who's accepted to be minister of defense, and who wants to be mayor. There are also data that these ambassadors are destroying the marriages of state officials in the Republic of Serbia. But what do we do, you're hired. We'll have to change you in coalition with the people very soon. As soon as possible, it's better, because if you do it in time, the consequences can be much easier. If you're working late, they can be harder and then it takes a long time to get dirty, to dig, to finish that job. According to this concept, when it comes to copyright, you allegedly gave great rights to the author, the heirs and, when it comes to related rights, artists, etc., to protect their creation, their achievement, natural talent, why not say, not everyone can be a successful author, but at the same time you said – if you want that protection, you have to contact private agencies. Then when you talk to private agencies, those private agencies, they steal the most as authors. So it's said -- compact disc, DVD printed in so many and so many copies, and when they get there, the Dobanovci, the Shimanovci, you know themselves, they're the cause of this piracy. Another thing, is there any protection that is prescribed by this law or international standards in the world of this technology of the Internet today? I don't think European standards are far below international standards. In this country, people believe that Europe alone has some standards. Bad EU standards. Those who are under the auspices of the World Organization are standards. How do you protect these people? That's not possible. Then we have authors and performers. Some want to be available to the public, to be popular, because an integral part of copyright is publishing, no matter how hard someone tries to do the work and never sees the light of day. But in many areas of creation, creation is empty unless the public hears and there is no public echo. We have extremely smart creators, composers and performers, etc., who jealously protect their rights. In what way? By showing up in public and being able to fill both halls and halls, etc. Who shows up on TV, where do these agencies advertise how to protect the rights of the authors? Third category authors.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59337	Time! Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before I conclude a joint principle search, I ask if anyone who has not used the right of Article 96. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a professor, Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59338	First of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups and representatives of these groups who have spoken about this law, regardless of the attitude of these parliamentary groups to the content, whether they will vote or not, accept it or not, because each exposure had its own meaning and it is good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to hear, that they too would have insight into the content of this law and into certain solutions, and also interpretation solutions which certainly, of course, fully autonomously explain. I think I need to say a few words regarding the issues that have been heard, perhaps in one other way than what the people representing the parliamentary groups today have said to the public. It is indisputable that the Republic of Serbia has its own interest to pass these two laws, the Law on patents and amendments to the Law on Copyright and Other Related Rights, and that this is a primary interest, such as the fact that without a solution, which are part of the solution of the countries with which we cooperate or want to co-operate, we cannot be equal partners in this co-operation, because co-operation involves, of course, respect and proper rules of the game. It is formed through legal regulation and if we want to cooperate or to extend the fact of our innovation, knowledge and other spaces, we must also accept what is part of the legislation of other countries. We did not accidentally say that some of the patent laws were primarily a product of practice and our perception that they were simply not in line, i.e. that in practice they were not good enough and that we wanted, of course, to bring the law into line with the EU directives that were in the meantime. Why don't you say so too? And that is one of the reasons, as of course, and one of the reasons why we want to be a member of the World Trade Organisation and the need to bring solutions into line with what is part of their norms. What may have to be said individually was the words of Article 17. The copyright law. I must say that the protection of the integrity of the work, that is, the protection of the right of the Tuesday to oppose the unauthorized change in their work, is one of the basic moral rights of the author. This right has been given in the Benean Convention and is identically prescribed in all the countries applying this Convention. So our solution contained in Article 17 is also the solution contained in the laws of other countries. You have seen, since there have been objections to the interpretation of this law, why has it not been changed, because it is precisely the intention to protect copyright and to prevent the abuse of that right being regulated through other amendments and additions to this law, in the section relating to the restriction of copyright. The solutions contained in the proposed law were primarily related to copyright restrictions for public interest. More detailed regulation of these restrictions, in the way it is done in other countries, above all and in EU countries, why not, will contribute to the achievement of copyrights in Serbia as well. The assumption that there will be fewer disputes and that judges will be easier to decide whether or not they are in a particular situation. There were objections to the state's investment in science. I don't think that's how it works. The fact is, despite the economic crisis, that the state's isolation has increased according to science, that an innovation fund has been formed and investment has increased from 0.3% to 1%. Of course, we can now, in terms of different periods, say multi-party Serbia, different data, and even explain that in the 1990s despite the economic situation, there was a 1% separation, but the fact that the government and these difficult economic conditions are doing everything possible to increase the isolation of science as an important resource. There were issues that were not objectively related to the topic of the agenda -- why science and technological development were attached to this ministry, but, interestingly, the countries taken in one context were supposed to confirm the position of exhibitors, and in the other they were against it, because I always have to mention it, the government implemented a reconstruction, new ministries were formed, six ministries got new resolutions, education, science and technology became one part and a single ministry. I will only take two countries that differ fantastically in many aspects, and have the same solution: the Russian Federation and the Republic of Croatia. The Russian Federation has the Ministry of Education and Science with 150 million people and the resources it has, which are known, and the Republic of Croatia has again the Ministry of Sports, Education and Sports, as they say, with about four million and some people and no one thinks these solutions are not good for the country. So, everywhere in the world, there are different solutions to how the state administration's affairs are organised within individual sectors. Approximately, most countries in the world, at least 60% have ministries that are common, though, there are ministries where, I say, science and higher education unite within a single ministry. We have cited a number of examples of technical solutions that we have taken in view of the legislation of other countries, and in this context the solutions that have been taken into account in this law, so if some other countries, Denmark, etc., are mentioned, it is not about the political treatment of these issues but about the technical solutions. There's no policy here, there's only examples of good practice. Around the rules – until the rules are passed, a law that is very detailed will apply. The fact is, we're going to try to make it very soon, even though it's been given six months, we're going to pass these laws. There was another question of fellow Spasojevic about the King. My colleague correctly raised the question, but I must say, since this session of the National Assembly is going straight to the air, so if the citizens heard a question about the King, it is their turn to hear the answer, we at the Ministry of Education and Science since 3 November 2010 have tried in various ways to resolve the situation in the King, to get schools in a position to be safe for students. We had two donor conferences, one in Belgrade, the other in the Kingdom, which took part in over 20 firms in Belgrade, unfortunately, there was a company in the Kingdom, but there was no good will at that time to volunteer for part of the work related to editing the school space. We had one paradoxical situation, I already explained it once, and I'm going to do it today, that we had to repeat three tenders for three schools because none of the performers reported that within the prescribed amount of money they were doing works on objects that are part of primary and secondary education. The funds we've had are objectively small. We had great support and assistance from the Post Office of Serbia and Post Office Savings. The total value of these works is about 130 million dinars. From that, the Resort Ministry has allocated about 70 million and the rest of us have been given to the rest of them. Still, making significant shifts in the area may best say the two reports I have on me. One of the data was valid until September 1st, because then we were planning that the number of children attending classes outside of their facilities would be 3.380. Otherwise, there are 9,029 primary school students and 5,594 secondary school students in the Kingdom area. As of Monday, the situation will be completely different, all of which will be 907 students attending school outside the home schools, for the simple reason why we have not, because of the lack of material resources, managed to bring all schools into the state that enables them to continue. There I have to be clear, so that there is no delusion, we're working on resolving the state of schools in a way that they are staticly safe and seismically safe, not to settle everything that is necessary after the earthquake, we'll do it in the months to come. On Monday, a reconstructed high school and economic school building will be opened. It's the largest facility, 1637 students attend, to say the premises of these two schools. This will significantly help us to resolve the issue of reducing classes in some schools, so we expect to finish almost everything by early October. Why almost everything? Because there are objects where we haven't solved the questions of the project yet, it's taken over by local self-government, but we're part of it, too. I don't want it to be understood that we're transferring any part of our responsibility to local self-government, since I know what they're doing to improve the state of schools. Of course, as a minister, and for this school year, I will recommend to the colleges that the students of the King's release costs, but since this is part of the university's autonomy – to determine the amount of compensation, we have said that they do not increase scholarships, the colleges have respected it, and that this will be possible too, I know that with all universities in Serbia, whether it is about Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, Belgrade, Kosovo Mitrovica, there is always a good will to meet students from the Kingdom. I expect that's the way it's gonna be this year. Around the brain drain, which is a question asked by fellow Zivanovic, and you know for yourself that this is a problem that exists in these areas, perhaps since the 1970s, that people are leaving and that the state, as long as it doesn't offer ways for people to work, will always be. We try to increase the number of highly educated people and the quality of education, and I don't do it by accident. It is always better to single out for education than to deal with the consequences of the current situation. There's one bad thing for us. Today is International Literature Day, and we have a large number of people who are undereducated or illiterate. That's where we try, through different actions, to change the situation. You know yourself that in education and science things can't be solved overnight. Now bring some measure, some law, and the effects can only be seen after a few years. Dear fellow Members of the People, we will be in a position tomorrow at this time, I hope, to begin the debate on amendments to these two laws, respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, so that I and other colleagues will be in a position to answer the specific questions contained in the amendments. One part of the amendment is accepted and we'll let you know tomorrow, the other part is not, and we'll let you know why we're not. Simply, our wish, we have said this several times before, and I am now mentioning, is that the law should be as high as possible, that solutions should be better and, of course, be in the interest of the development of science, scientific creation and future development of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-09-08-0.u59339	Dear People's MPs, let us thank, on your behalf and on your behalf, the Minister of Education and Science, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, who, as always, is really talking to us about the laws and bringing matter closer to the citizens, that is, we do so together. Of course, I also thank you all for having an active part in the debate today. I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on patents and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Tomorrow at 12.00 hours, since the Committee's session will be held by that time, we will continue to work on the draft law on railways and these two laws we discussed today. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's 2011 extraordinary session. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, there are 94 of us and to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I'm just asking you to check your cards. We're safe and significant more than 84th in the O.R., but please check the cards. Thank you. We've established by the electronic system that we're currently 85 registered, which means there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milos Radulovic and Mladen Grujic. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that I have called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of promoter Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Energy, to be attended by Professor Dr Slavoljub Vukicevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy and Dejan Lasica, Assistant Minister for Infrastructure and Energy. We continue with the work and move on to the search in the details of the first item of the agenda: PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISER You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papug, Radovan Srđan Spasojević, Nikola Savić, Drago Omerović, Munir Poturak, Radica Jocić, Zlata Đerić, Miroslav Markić, Aleksandra Mihajlović, Marko Milenković, Srboljuvić, Srboljub Živanovic, Zarojko Omerović, Munir Poturak, Vitomir Mihaljić and Žilić. You have received a report from the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The People's MPs Lasslo Varga and Balint Pastor submitted to the 3rd Amendment together. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanović submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Saviæ. I think you're following what I'm saying. Here you go.
