ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64674	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, today will be about the draft law amending and supplementing the Constitutional Court Act. I would remind you that the current Constitutional Court Act was passed in 2007, i.e. that it has been more than four years since its application. The main reason for the adoption of the law is that, by analysing the work of the Constitutional Court so far, there has been a conclusion that certain provisions of the law, in particular provisions relating to the procedure before the Constitutional Court, should be amended and amended, and in order to address the problem of overload of the Constitutional Court. This overload primarily concerns a number of constitutional appeals procedures, partly for the reasons of the inherited cases of the Serbia-Montenegro court, as well as a number of new constitutional complaints brought by citizens to the Constitutional Court, bearing in mind that the Constitutional Court is the last instance to decide on the violation of the Constitution of guaranteed human and minority rights and fundamental freedoms, the conversion to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The applicable law does not allow the Constitutional Court to resolve certain procedural issues that arise in the process in a different way, except at the session of all judges. As a result, as well as due to the broad jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court established by the Constitution, this court is not in a position to act effectively in cases which, above all, relate to the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the laws and other general acts, as well as to the proceedings under constitutional appeals. For these reasons, the most important amendments to the laws proposed relate to the organisation and decision-making of the Constitutional Court. I would also point out that the draft of this law provides the opinion of the experts of the Venice Council of Europe, whose recommendations are largely embedded in the text of the bill. Now I'd like to brief you on the most important solutions to this bill. The bill introduces a new way of determining the salaries of the Constitutional Court judges. According to the current rules of salary, the Constitutional Court judges are determined by the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services, which determines the coefficient for payment, while the basis is determined by the Government's conclusion. In this way, the executive power has an impact on determining the salary of judges of the Constitutional Court, which could undermine its independence of independence. Therefore, the draft law provides that the salary of the Constitutional Court judges corresponds to the position of the Constitutional Court and the responsibility of the Court of Justice to perform its duties and represents one of the guarantees of its independence, with the protection of constitutionality and legality and human and minority rights and freedoms. For these reasons, it is proposed that the basis for the calculation and payment of the salaries of the President and the Constitutional Court judge be determined by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the draft law lays down the coefficients for the account and payment of the salaries of the Constitutional Court judges. In this way, greater independence of the Constitutional Court is achieved, as the elements for the calculation and payment of the salaries of the Constitutional Court judges are laid down exclusively by law and by the Law on the Constitutional Court and the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. The bill provides the possibility for the Constitutional Court's public hearing to be held outside its headquarters in Belgrade, following the Constitutional Court's decision, in order to be more effective in dealing with certain cases. The draft law deals specifically with issues relating to the working relations of staff in the Constitutional Court's professional service, taking into account the specificities and complexity of the tasks carried out in the professional service. These provisions establish the possibility of determining the position in the Constitutional Court’s professional service, prescribe specific conditions for the promotion of civil servants, staff in the Constitutional Court’s professional service, as well as the possibility of increasing the coefficients for the account of their salaries and further education on the costs of the Constitutional Court. In this way, the position of the court in the system of state authorities is highlighted and at the same time allows for the most qualified lawyers to be employed in the professional service of this court. In order to preserve the independence and independence of the Constitutional Court, it has been proposed that the Government cannot suspend, postpone or restrict the implementation of the budgetary resources identified for the work of this institution without the consent of the President of the Constitutional Court. In addition, the special paper constitutes provisions laying down the procedure for the preparation of the draft budget of the Constitutional Court, as well as the way in which the budget expenditure control is to be monitored as defined for its work. The proposed solutions are aimed at increasing independence and independence, as I said, of this court with regard to the process of proposing, the necessary budgets for work, and to limit the impact of the executive authorities on the proposal of the volume of the budget needed for work. Perhaps the most significant newspaper, which contains the proposal of this law, is the one relating to the forms of work and decision of the Constitutional Court. The proposed solutions are prescribed for the court to decide at a session, a session of the Great Council and a session of the small council. The introduction of new forms of work of the Constitutional Court, such as sessions of the Great and Small Council, will contribute to a more effective decision-making of the Constitutional Court, especially when it comes to decision-making of a procedural nature and decision-making process under constitutional appeals. The draft law provides that all judges of the Constitutional Court shall make the most important decisions in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, such as the measurement decisions in the procedure of the assessment of constitutionality and legality, decisions in the procedure of the ban on the political party, trade union organisations, associations of citizens or the religious community, as well as decisions in the procedure of breach of the Constitution by the President of the Republic. As I pointed out, the bill introduces new forms of work of the Constitutional Court, which are large and slightly larger. A much bigger one decides on procedures in which the Constitutional Court is not in charge and makes certain solutions to the procedural character. At a session of a major decision, or decision-making, shall be taken unanimously. If no agreement is reached, the case shall be decided by the sitting of the Constitutional Court. It is predicted that the Constitutional Court has two major councils, which consist of seven judges of the Constitutional Court and the President of the Constitutional Court, which is a member of both major ones. The personal composition of the grand council shall be determined by the annual schedule of the cases brought by the President of the Constitutional Court. The bill stipulates that a little larger, consisting of three judges of the Constitutional Court, draws conclusions exclusively of a procedural character. As with the grand council, at the small council session, the conclusions are reached unanimously, and if no agreement is reached, the case in the jurisdiction of the council shall be decided by much greater. The number of small councils is determined by the Constitutional Court, and the President of the Constitutional Court determines the president and members of the small council by the annual schedule of the Constitutional Court's affairs. This makes it possible to proceed more effectively with the Constitutional Court, on the one hand, and the provisions of Article 175 are respected on the other hand. The Constitution, which determines how the Constitutional Court decides. Provisions relating to acts of the Constitutional Court, such as specific cases where the Constitutional Court makes decisions, conclusions or solutions, and mandatory elements of these acts, have been prescribed, giving the Constitutional Court authority to determine the content of these mandatory elements closer. In addition, a provision laying down the content of the proposal for the establishment of non-constitution or illegality, i.e. an initiative to initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality, has been specified. This change is necessary due to the fact that, in practice so far, a large number of initial acts of applicants were incomplete, leading to a delay in these proceedings. The draft law also gave the authority of the Constitutional Court to postpone publication of its decision in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" for a maximum period of six months, in order to allow the decision-makers, who have been declared unconstitutional or illegal, to make appropriate amendments to the contested act, thereby preventing the possible creation of legal voids and harmful consequences that could arise from the date of publication of the Constitutional Court's decision. The provisions relating to the procedure under the constitutional appeal have also been significantly amended. The draft law provides that the constitutional appeal must contain a defined request, as well as a request for material or immaterial damage, in order for the Constitutional Court, together with a decision on the constitutional appeal, to decide on a claim for damage. Also, the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court has been established to decide on compensation for damages caused by violated human or minority law. Such a solution is in line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which at the same time determines the level of damage when determining the infringement of the right. At the end of this presentation, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that after the debate in principle and in particular the National Assembly will adopt this bill, which will create the necessary legal assumptions for the more effective work of the Constitutional Court and strengthen its independence and independence, and all in order to enforce the Constitution of established jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, which primarily concerns the protection of constitutionality and legality and the protection of human and minority rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64675	Do the officials of the committees want a word? National MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee? No, I don't. ) National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? If so, please sign in. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64676	Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course we have nothing against more precise regulation of those decisions of the Constitutional Court Act, i.e. above all the rules of procedure and internal functions that have produced the most serious problems in practice so far. However, before we move to a debate on these rules, on salaries in the Constitutional Court, on issues of its effectiveness, I think we need to take a step back and actually try to answer the question of what is the Constitutional Court in our country and what it should serve, what it really serves and what the Constitutional Court has actually turned into in the last four to five years since the adoption and entry into force of the current Constitution, the Constitution of Serbia. And you and I, Mrs. Malovic, know that the Constitution was written, that it was primarily the result of a rotten compromise between diametrically opposed and political ideas and political ideology and political parties. The Constitution of Serbia, which defines among other things some of the key issues of the Constitutional Court's functioning, primarily the way and procedure of the election of its... It is immediately unusual these days when there are more members of the ruling coalition in the O.R. So, all these rules were made at the time of the end of cohabitation and preparation for entry into the period of the open coalition, primarily DS and DSS. The rules on choice, on how judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia are primarily the result of the rotten compromise. The fact is that at one point, those who were at the time crucially determining the policy direction and relations between political parties and political leaders in Serbia, that they seemed to be the best way to make it, however, is to say, the apparent balance of power between the president of the Republic, parliament, the ruling coalition and the High Council of the judiciary, when judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. As soon as the cohabitation, and then the coalition collapsed, somewhere from the beginning of 2008, there were actually very serious problems in the Constitutional Court, in what is not only general and legal, but also the clerical position of its members. You know that the Constitutional Court, by the way, and our Constitution and our laws say that, is no ordinary judicial authority. The Constitutional Court, apart from defending the constitutional order itself, has been called upon to give some general directions to interpreting the right, improving the right and all that is actually related to the Christian values, political and civilization in one country. From human rights and civil liberties to the principles of legality, division of power, etc. It is the end of 2011 and I don't think anyone in Serbia should particularly explain what problems the Constitutional Court is having, and in its internal organisation, and in communication with the public, and in what is most important, and that is the perception of the public. So how and how does the democratic public in Serbia or all citizens experience the Constitutional Court? Do they trust his work? Do they feel that his decisions are always devoid of political influence? Finally, do they think that they are actually the highest-quality judges or some of the best-quality judges at this point in the Constitutional Court? I don't think there's any doubt that this answer isn't positive. I heard that at one point, when you explained the bill, you were talking about trying to create both material and organisational conditions for the most qualified lawyers, I suppose primarily young experts, to look for work in the Constitutional Court, to work in his professional services and to be further motivated for such a thing. Like you, I believe that this is a matter of motivation, of honor to work in the Constitutional Court, of ambition to perhaps one day become a judge of the Constitutional Court or its president very important, that perhaps much more and much more healthy can motivate young experts than the issue of height or height of pay. But I think whatever you do with this law, with its solutions, you won't be able to raise the reputation of that function. These people who need to come and apply and work in the Constitutional Court simply see who some of the judges of the Constitutional Court are at that moment. I'm not going individually. I know there are excellent experts in the Constitutional Court, wonderful judges, and some of them were mine and your professors at the University of Belgrade Law School, but there's another circle of people, there's a circle of people who were elected here as judges of the Constitutional Court by party quotas. You remember the moment when, since you have two different coalition partners from Sandzak, you had to find places among the judges of the Constitutional Court and for representatives of both groups. A similar situation is also with representatives of some, to say other parts of Serbia or judges who are close to some other political options. At the same time, you have in court and that part of the judge that was elected at the time that I mentioned at the beginning, so cohabitation, or the DS and DSS coalition, because of the specific way of choosing a proposal, and then selecting another organ from a wider list. This political influence is embedded, inherent to the law itself, the constitutional model itself, and therefore you have so many problems, so many internal differences in the Constitutional Court, which are very difficult to bring to a consistent and, freely, I can say the reformist attitude. Actually, I think that's what the Constitutional Court should do. If we already have a constitution like this, if it is rigid in a thousand places, then at least the Constitutional Court through practice could help to interpret its solutions in a more progressive way and that, until we get a new constitution, and I think we should start working on its writing as soon as possible, that even if it removes the shortcomings of the existing constitutional model. The third or fourth question is how the Constitutional Court is based on politics, how it reacts to its impulses. This is not just about this composition of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, we have had this problem in the judiciary and in general in the judiciary in particular decades ago. I know that it is not so, that too often there is a direct political influence of the Government, the President of the Republic, the ruling structures on the very case before the Constitutional Court, and this is the consequence of the relatively low personal, moral and professional credibility of such elected judges of the Constitutional Court. Such a Constitutional Court often listens to what is happening in public, tries to assess what is political and any other "mainstream" and, depending on whether it decides whether to initiate certain procedures, how they will run them, how effectively they will lead them, and whether they will stand with the Judge's rapporteur or at some other stage of the procedure for months or years in the drawer. I'll just remind you of a few cases. At the end of September or early October 2008, we tried to initiate a procedure before the Constitutional Court of Serbia for the assessment of the constitutionality of the energy agreement, or a series of contracts concluded with the Russian Federation, which included the scandalous sale of NIS, but also agreements on the construction of the South Stream gas pipeline and the Banatski Dvor underground gas warehouse. We received an answer after a few months, which apparently resulted from that impression in the Constitutional Court, which was obvious, that it was, above all, a political arrangement with a very powerful state, that the background of this arrangement was not economical or commercial, but, above all, political, that it was counting on us to get political support for Kosovo in return for such a low price for privatisation. This is followed by the position of the Constitutional Court, which is very clear and in its decision delivered to us in early 2009, that what the Constitutional Court has to interfere with the business that the governments of the two countries have concluded, that it is an international contract that is above the law, in our legal order, and that those provisions that we have challenged, which concern the practical establishment of the monopoly, the violation of the rules on the protection of the environment, the limitations of the sovereignty of our state, because you know that these contracts prohibit our state authorities from changing fiscal and other rules, that these rules cannot be applied directly because they are too general. So in that decision that rejects our initiative, the Constitutional Court, in fact, ruled the Constitution whose jurisdiction it has to defend, by saying that the Constitution is unclear and that these provisions cannot be implemented. This is a huge problem, especially when the whole head of the Constitution regarding the fundamentals of economic relations and the part concerning human rights and freedoms cannot be applied directly. What, then, can be applied from our Constitution? Preamble, part of human rights or part of the organization of state organs? None of these segments of the Constitution are working, and the Constitutional Court, as it is today arranged and there is no evidence that this law will significantly change it, cannot give any of the answers to any of the key issues of this society. You know how many problems you've had in some other proceedings, you know what the Constitutional Court has done to you in the general election procedure of judges, making at different stages of the procedure or in different time periods, again listening to what is politically "maine stream" in society, mutually different and opposed decisions, from initially assessing that the very way of change in the judiciary was constitutional, in accordance with the Constitution and key international documents, until at one point when they did, when they got the input, when they started to think about who would eventually achieve success in the next election, they began to reterate you and, in practice, destroy the whole concept of the choice of judges, finding justification in some partial and strange interpretations of the guarantees of judicial independence, sustainability of judicial functions, etc. Although they were chosen under the Constitution, which, although not formally speaking, was the expression of serious constitutional discontinuity, although they themselves, most of them or one part of them, came from that judicial, judicial mile, which they themselves knew was the only segment of the state in which nothing changed for the better after October 5th, and then, 10-11 years later, the fact that nothing had improved essentially prevented any institutional, social, legal, economic progress of this society. Meanwhile, some of these problems have been solved, of course, again in a detour, with open or hidden political calculations. It is something that still burdens the judicial system in Serbia today. You know that this will happen after the term of office of this government and after the end of your term, regardless of what LDP and most of our party's MPs had a very serious understanding of what you personally do in that ministry. Simply, the system you run, and the Constitutional Court, whose work you institutionally influence with such laws, cannot depend on any goodwill, not on the ability of any individual or state official, but above all on the reflection of the atmosphere produced by the highest civil officials in it: the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the entire Government, the media, the civil sector, etc. Finally, one of the last examples I want to talk about is a circus that lasts before the Constitutional Court with two proceedings. One procedure for the ban on right-wing or extremist organisations, which was first, as you know, launched in a problematic way, there were many failures in the work of the prosecutor's office, and then all that was done by the Constitutional Court: the terms of the appointment of certain actions in the process, the way it was represented to the public, the way of communication with the public, the choice of persons to be called to these discussions, all this initial request of the state, i.e. the public prosecutor's office, had been unthinked. We can conduct a public opinion survey at this point, in any other way to measure the impressions and impressions of the public and you will see that at this point there is much less understanding of the procedure for the ban on these organisations in society, that there is much more justification for these young seduced people, as some say, than it was at the time when the state started proceedings. What should be the result? This is the situation today or the completely opposite situation in which, not only the Constitutional Court at some point, but also the most important parts of society and the general majority of citizens will condemn organisations or individuals who are openly violently or by calling for violence in violation of fundamental human rights and civil freedom. Another example recently appeared before the Constitutional Court and again upset the public, which is the issue of assessing the constitutionality of the Vojvodina Statute. This is a very important issue in our society, relating to a third of this country, one community or territorial unit that, even under the present Constitution, has certain features of autonomy, of course, not enough. What is the result of the proceedings before the Constitutional Court so far? The information we have received as representatives of the expert public has been called, I don't know, Costa Chavoski, Zoran Lončar, who is one of the senior DSS officials who actually initiated the procedure, I think Mr. Professor. Samardzic, I'm not sure if he was invited. Prof. Ratko Markovic is one of the creators of a model for abolishing the autonomy of essential autonomy in Serbia's 1989 constitutional changes, or 1990. The President of the Constitutional Court and Judges of the Constitutional Court will tell you that they did nothing wrong to invite representatives of both sides of the public concerned and that this is, in fact, the essence of the democratic process to exchange arguments. However, it was a miracle that the arguments of the DSS, their constitutional experts, those who contributed crucially to the current constitution being so undemocratic and thus opposed between other autonomy and Vojvodina. Arguments of Prof. Cavoski's bones were given much more public space, to alarm the public again, to restart and awaken the three-part Serbian stories that did not become whole, to invent fears of separatism on the territory of Vojvodina, etc. Whether there was room and debate before the Constitutional Court in an analysis of the Constitutional Court in the standards to be set by the Constitutional Court. A place for analysis that shows that we, say next week, are adopting a nine billion-euro republican budget here, and that there is 650m euros in the excessive autonomy given to Vojvodina. Is the Constitutional Court with any rules special to reason in this way, to talk about these arguments and to turn it around a little bit? No, so far they've reduced their entire activity to whether the Face or any other association has been formally registered, whether the computer is artificial in one way or another, and all that, winking at the right eye, like Waimar Germany, after World War I. Behind this facade of legalism and the protection of constitutional order, there is always a real understanding for those who are opponents of human rights and building freedoms, opponents of change and reform in Serbia and finally opponents, let's say, European integration or European reforms of this country. It's not a meaningless question. In a situation where some other state bodies, in which parliament, the government, and more and more the president of the Republic, enjoy increasingly less democratic confidence in citizens, are much more closely listening to what it is doing, how the Constitutional Court is doing and a whole series of other institutions that are not at their right sight, or are not necessarily political. As for some more specific provisions, we will discuss this more in detail. I'd just like to get an answer to some of those questions. It seems to me in some places in this law that you are actually making the procedure a little difficult, that is, to approach the citizens of the court. Especially in the part where you say what you really need to contain a request when you address the Constitutional Court. Earlier, it seems to me to be a formulation, a definition of demands and a signature of applicants, and today these changes require much more precise guidance. This will in some ways reduce the likely number of cases, and on the other hand it could put us at risk before the European Court of Human Rights because you know that we have the most problems except for Article 6. European Conventions, the right to a fair trial and this right under Article 13 is the right to an effective remedy. As the constitutional appeal now works, these great delays actually put us in a position that soon before the European Court of Justice and the fact that a person has not received the Constitutional Court's decision, according to the constitutional appeal, therefore, it has not been decided, we are in danger that the European Court of Human Rights will begin to assess that it is no longer necessary to exhaust this remedy, since it is not an effective remedy. That depends on the number of cases. If this is how you limit that possibility, or reduce the number of cases, then I think we're getting back into the same situation. So that it will be some kind of depravation of the judiciary as the European Court of Human Rights says in a whole series of its decisions and that through this technical solution, a much bigger political problem will actually be made. I'm not saying it was your motivation because you have a big problem with the backlogs, and I understand that somehow you have to solve them, but let's try to find a way to make this balance more just and that on the side of the citizens there may be room for constitutional complaints and, of course, some kind of prevention must be related not to the Constitutional Court Act and the rules of procedure, but to the work of this general judicial, judicial apparatus for the work of the state administration. There are just the biggest problems, and that is why citizens so often, so many constitutional complaints address the European Court of Human Rights, following proceedings before domestic authorities. We'll talk more, and we'll probably be able to clear up some more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64677	The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64678	Experience implies that a man must take care of something that has happened in the past and there has long been a saying, children are advised – not to lie, because whoever lies and steals. Whoever steals goes to jail. Whoever goes to jail has fleas and you don't have to hang out with these people. To start a little joke, but a big, really big truth. So, according to the Proposer, he's also on trial for what he's going to suggest and what he's actually suggesting. Then you come to the conclusion that the motionor doesn't actually know what the Constitutional Court is. What is it that's being pulled out as a constitutional court term? The Constitutional Court is not a court, is not a court of general jurisdiction and does not fall under the judiciary and those acting as Judge of the Constitutional Court do not have a judicial office. That is why there is no continuity but the Constitution has prescribed how long their mandate is, it is a specific kind of control of the constitutionality and legality of general acts. It's an initial definition of the Constitutional Court, and everything that is later added as jurisdiction, so it may have to do with individual acts is an exception and therefore I have to be restrictively interpreted. But when that lesson was taught at the university, the secretary of the ministry called Homen buzzed on American embassies to take money to tear down the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, Ivica Dacic and Mira Markovic. So we came into this situation that we have real proof of absolute ignorance. So if the Constitutional Court doesn't give God this bill is passed, he'll have a big and little bigger one. So someone thinks the Constitutional Court is the Court of Appeal, the Supreme Court or I don't know what else. This is elemental ignorance. Never in our practice has the Constitutional Court worked in parts but in full composition. What did they find to cover for it? Read about the European Court of Human Rights, but the European Court of Human Rights is not in line with the Constitutional Court, it is the fourth pillar where citizens appear individually because of human rights violations. But what's it worth? Almost there was this Kopanic School of Natural Rights and in one of the works the opening presentation gave Dr. Bossa Nenadic, written by a beautiful woman what the Constitutional Court is, but what the secretary of the justice ministry was worth was not reading the paper. I don't know how the Constitutional Court judges are going to accept these amendments and supplement these laws. Or they will accept because of that part of the changes and additions that concern the status, the retirement grounds for judges, salaries, etc. Why does that change? They have to pay. Why do they have to pay? To do the dirty work. How do you do dirty work in the Constitutional Court? Here's a few examples. I can use as an example the first mafia coalition government, the second mafia coalition government and the third mafia coalition government of the Democratic Party. In 2001, the first government adopted some regulations on the transport of oil derivatives. It was brought before the Constitutional Court and imagine a miracle only a month ago that a solution or conclusion of the Constitutional Court came that it was without substance to debate, since laws were passed in the meantime, and these regulations were put out of force. So, for ten years, they've waited for a situation to happen in fact and legally and not to take the proposal to assess the legality of those regulations into their hands. It's an amazing thing. I don't know what right you are then criticizing some basic court or that judge which 41 years is a state case in a drawer. Here, you have it in the Constitutional Court and remember who those judges of the Constitutional Court are, you zoomed in. There are Prof. Dr. Olivera Vukic, Marija Draškiæ, Goran P. Ilic, Agnes Kartagodri, Dragan M. Stojanović. Then we only have these with Dr - Dr Bosa Nenadić, so we have Mr - Tomislav B. Stojković, so you have, imagine, Bratislav Djokić, Sabahudin Tahirović, Predrag Cetkovic, Milan Marković, Milan Stanić, Vesna Ilic-Prevelic and, of course, the president at this time Dr Dragisa B. Slepčević. When you read the biographies to get behind your head and say – is it possible that these people can sit in the Constitutional Court? You know, there's three parts to choose from that Constitutional Court, one part to you, you, most of you here have chosen. What is the characteristic of this Constitutional Court? That they don't know how to read the Constitution. Remember that a few months ago, perhaps a little more, they allegedly interpreted the Law on Local Elections and made that famous decision that every mobster can provide a majority in the municipal assembly, however, in the National Assembly. Article 102(2) The constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not exist for them. They don't read it, they break it there by reason of their decision, their own kind of dialectic of the imperative mandate, the blank resignations, etc. Something was said by the Buddha God with us, no one asked, and even that provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not even quoted literally. You see, in my ignorance, to cheer you up, Democrats, since I am your bankruptcy manager, you know that, Mrs. Komic, I have the official authority handed over to the National Assembly that I am a bankruptcy manager of DS and you see that I'm doing well, e, to inform you now in 2001 of the Extra Profit Act. The procedure was initiated before the Constitutional Court, so several provisions were said not to be in agreement with the Constitution, several were delayed decision-making and, imagine, the genius Constitutional Court was definitely closed the case a month ago. What did he find out? That this law will be applied in the future. It's a fantastic decision. In ignorance, they decided that we would now have to examine whether those bags of Bozidar Djelic were empty, so we would have to apply extra profits and attach sugar to Miskovic, Beka, all possible tycoons, because the Constitutional Court in ignorance put the SRS all those who had economically destroyed the Republic of Serbia for 11 years. Do you see what ignorance means? You know, in the National Assembly there is a saying – if I am Momo Colaković. There's one song called "If I Were Zdravko Colic," but everyone would probably want to be the judge of the Constitutional Court. Why? After these changes and additions will be protected as a bear. It will have a completely different way to retire, a completely different way to establish a pension base. Simply, the regime protects pillars that guard the third mafia coalition government of the DS. Now we need to have a serious discussion about some solutions. How serious is the discussion? Do you see that the public will be denied in the work of the Constitutional Court? In this vast reformation of the public of labour, the public of work is lost. Now the public will depend on the Internet, and then they can shut down the public, so you'll see the court records. He can't get a look at the court records when it comes to the judges' complaints. However, it was given as a possibility. You see how it all ends well, it does well. This is it – transparently, it is democratic, according to European standards. Why? In order for some interest to come true, and we have to take care of all this. We have submitted a lot of amendments, so we will specifically tell about these amendments when it comes to this discussion and specifically which member. But can you imagine a provision that will read: The Constitutional Court will dismiss the proceedings initiating or initiating proceedings before a court of inquiry when it finds that the submission is clearly unfounded? So Dr Dragisa B. Slepčević or Dr. Bosa Nenadić takes an initiative or a proposal and puts it in his hand and says, how many, 200 grams, it's obviously unfounded, wait till I see this second, uh, 300 grams, it's obviously established, we can continue to work. On what basis will someone determine whether it is obviously unfounded when the lack of foundation implies entering the meter? How? The next pearl, due to this, is likely to make Ratko Markovic jump out of happiness when he hears it, says: if he finds out that he is misusing the right. Imagine, Bosa Nenadić puts a submission in hand and says – this procedure abuses the right. What right? What right is being abused? How did she become a cantar? Who gave her a hand job? Where's her certificate? For a simple cantar at the market, you have to have the seal that's been stamped. Do they have the stamps of these zombies of yours, these 15 pieces here? My people, you remember the 2007 election campaign. Boris Tadic accused Dragan Todorovic of having committed abuse, changed his license contract on behalf of the government for Bogoljub Karic something similar. Suzi Dragan Todorovic Boris Tadic and Boris Tadic do not appear in court. Nenad Konstantinovic will not remove his immunity. Do you know what contract he wrote? Not Dragan Todorovic, but Vesna Ilic-Prelic, the Constitutional Court judge. When are we gonna see Bockey in court, find out he's been slandered? No, immunity. Do you see what immunity means? You see when the pots get mixed up how it can be dangerous, but it doesn't bother you because you've completed the transformation of our judiciary and you know for yourself, whatever snowman Malović and Bosko Ristic catch that grass is nothing more. Everything you've done for the past four years in the area of justice is disastrously bad. The question is, can these consequences be managed in some way? Why? You've been assigned from Brussels to destroy all this and destroy it. You boasted that even the choice of judges couldn't have done it without the B.I.A. The BIA gave a biography, the BIA gave an escort to what anyone was doing in their trial career. These are the kind of zombies that have been chosen. Now we have a situation, we have a new profession – I'm sitting at home, I'm getting paid. Do you know who that is? Not elected judges. You can't deny them their salary. Why? They have a strong association with the Society of Judges. They're notifying the world's public on you. Those for the West are a little bit of a push, but they're basically rubbing their hands. Why? When a state body in the state of Serbia does not function, it is the interest of the West. The West rubs hands, well, the state structure of the Republic of Serbia is breaking up, and there's your cohabitation, little acting power, little acting opposition. You've heard a little while ago, and you've been praised by people for the epochal changes. Or, the pearl, he says, if the submission is anonymous, then every anonymous submission addressed to the Constitutional Court can be interpreted as some kind of initiative that the Constitutional Court judges say - a fam came, and on the basis of assessing whether we can reach a solution to initiate the procedure, because they have the right to initiate the procedure themselves. No, anonymously, rejected, and what if an anonymous play was written by some Constitutional Court judge, what if he wrote a professor from law school, what if he wrote some state secretary from the ministry, what if he wrote an MP? You don't care about that. You want to show efficiency. Here, on one case I told you efficiency. Several regulations, the issue of constitutionality and legality, and more legality, opened in 2001, did not want to take hands, but in July 2011 send an appropriate act, whether the solution to whether the conclusion, how illusoryly to conduct the procedure, is because, in the meantime, the amended laws and those regulations are no longer in force and we should all be satisfied. And what happened to the first, second and third mafia coalition government of the Democratic Party, is what citizens feel today. That's what citizens feel today. We are talking about a Constitutional Court which does not know that there is a Article 102 in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Please, what are we talking about? There are a few other very interesting provisions, and I agree that somewhere you've been making legal-technical changes that were really necessary, but also in these provisions you've made catastrophic mistakes and now, to support this pension thing a little bit. It says – the pension basis for calculating the senior pension of the Constitutional Court judge is the monthly amount of tax-free wages and contributions to the judge for full-time work in the month in which his duty ends. Fantastic. So, Bosa's protected. It's an honor to retire from the Constitutional Court. You know, you have the coefficient, I think 12 etc. so they are very specific to civil servants in relation to civil servants in other ministries. I don't know what this specificity is about. I really don't know what he's looking at. It's the same professional and office business. There's probably a difference with the tenant after you've set these people up. Well, then we have a situation that, no matter what the conditions for retirement are fulfilled, they can decide to continue to serve as Judge of the Constitutional Court. You know, Bossa Nenadic with three apartments is probably done a long time ago. She's done her job as a woman. Let him retire, walk the puppies in the parks. Don't trust her so much, she's not a feather. She's been a feather since Mikulic. You rest a little woman, she can't get that far for you. She is soul and body of the pro-democracy, but release her a little. You've got a lot of those on this list. Here, and this Bratislav Djokic, however much you treat him that the DSS, you chose him, he had to fall under influence, not to tell you any further about these other people. Of course, there's a whole lot of mediocre people who don't even have a biography of lawyers, but most of them did this, if not that majority, then on the basis of Rasim Sulje, cross across the street, and Boki ends it. That's how this Sabahudin came in, I think. So even in the New Market, people took hold of their heads, where is it sufficient for them to be the judge of the Constitutional Court? I think that's the way it was during that debate. I just don't know who set it up. You mess around all the time, who's gonna catch you in it. I need to see the press clipping again. I didn't watch "Pres clipping" this morning. But it's enough to remember. Since you are full of European standards, consider when changing these regulations, I would draw your attention to one subject - Guy versus Moldova, not black Georgia but Guy. It's the last name of a man, a civil servant, who gave away some data while working at work, and was persecuted by Guya and given Moldova to the European Court of Human Rights. I'd like to remind you of the subject - the compass against Portugal. I also advise you to take a look at those provisions on the public service of the Constitutional Court and those provisions on insight into the court records. But what you're interested in. Brussels didn't give you the task of doing that. Brussels when it works, I have to explain it to you, it says – come on, get your foot. You have to do it, you have to do it, but it doesn't comply with the Constitution. No matter what we care about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you have to do it. And then the tail bends, comes here to Belgrade, the media comes, the European soul gives, gold etc. etc. etc. The corresponding changes are made, and it doesn't work at all, and when it starts to work out contradictoryly. It turns out funny, Nusic, that he would have material...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64679	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64680	Well, it's not like I'm out of time, is it? Who knew, I was just getting started.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64681	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64682	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when on the agenda we have questions about establishing conditions for more effective work of the Constitutional Court, of course, to ask the question, among other things, and how does the whole system work? It is true that these few years we have entered a serious reform of the judiciary, it is true that this reform, after years of bad experiences, gives the first positive effects and the truth is that it can be said that the judiciary has not yet completed and rounded up in this reform process and that better solutions still need to be sought, it is true that it can be objected. But what is not true is that the current system is worse than the one that is reformed, that the current system in any sense has shown more weaknesses than the one in whose reform we have entered and what is also not true, and here very often it is used as some kind of political argument against the ruling majority, it is not true that in this reform anyone, except for the need for this system to be reformed to get what is important for them, and this is an effective and judicial system that will ensure the achievement of their rights. This law allows for a few things. If we look at a democratic society and we go from the judicial authority to an independent branch of government and, as such, it would have to have instruments to which this independence is achieved, then it certainly implies financial independence and in this sense also goes part of the amendments and addition of this law, to allow the Constitutional Court not to depend on the government's will, when it comes to financial resources and when it comes to the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court judges. One who tries to personally tie it up, as if it were done for some individuals, then either does not understand the essence of the democratic system or, on the other hand, is trying to disqualify individuals that something is wrong. Both approach is an approach that does not allow the objectively to consider one important issue, such as the issue of position and the efficiency of the Constitutional Court's work and shows that one who performs personal disqualification of individuals working on these reforms or shows extreme irresponsibility or does not have a fundamentally serious argument to criticise a concrete bill. What is also important is that the financial independence of the Constitutional Court judges is provided through the way in which they are made, that is, to make up for them and to coordinate their compensation. Therefore, in a situation where the highest authority of the judicial authority depends on the executive authority, or members of that court depending on the executive authority, it is indeed difficult to talk about the independence of this branch. Of course, this proposal for amending and supplementing the law provides for both speeding up and raising the efficiency of the Constitutional Court's work, given that the vast number of inherited cases from the state union are still standing before the Constitutional Court, due to the inability for certain cases to work in smaller ones, therefore, this bill provides that these processes are to be speeded up so that they do not have to work fully by the judges of the Constitutional Court and thus will be allowed to remove what has been stuck years ago. What you really need to say is that the fact that you're looking for solutions that will be better should somehow be commended. Therefore, the non-insistence that the solution that was once the best solution is made should actually show that there is what is called an analysis of law enforcement and the fact that this law in practice works and the need to, in case there is some need for the law to be changed, to bring this law into line with what practice requires in implementation. I just want to point out that I really think, Mr. Chairman, that we should not be allowed to speak of a law that is really important, that a political opponent no matter what anyone thinks of a political opponent is insulting in a way that is really inadmissible. So those who before the murder of Zoran Djindjic created an atmosphere of lynches, arguing that the government is a mob government and that Zoran Djindjic is the mafia president today repeats exactly the same words. The fact is, it's our responsibility that they didn't answer for what they did back then. The fact is that it is our responsibility that they did not answer for what they were doing at the time so that none of them are sitting in parliamentary benches anymore and has the right to use the right to speak freely in parliament is such qualifications. So, I'm only asking you not to allow it, to criticise every government and to criticize every representative of the government is meant in parliament, but to make such disgusting accusations that a man paid for his life, because they created that same atmosphere before his murder, I don't think it's really acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64683	Thank you. There's no reason for replication. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search, submitted a written application with the order of MPs by the MPs of the LDP, the NS and the SRS. The word has a folk MP, Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64684	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, the honourable representatives, or the honourable representative of the Government, as I see only one representative of the Government present. I do not want to repeat what has already been said about the nature of the changes and the addition of this important law and I will not be too much of a metric because there are, mainly, legal-technical attributes, apart from some of the essential things that my colleague Bojan Đurić spoke about, and in part, also a colleague Krasic. I will refer to the general nature of what is the process of amending and supplementing this law, which is actually a picture of a political scene in Serbia, including one segment of a picture of society in general. We have now heard several empty praises and correcting our own bad actions by representatives of the ruling coalition. It may sometimes sound very offensive because it is placed in the general context of a perverse policy that causes the collapse of all social structures in our country, unfortunately. I will refer to a few sentences that stand in part of the reasoning of this law. It is called "the reasons for the law" where it is said – the Constitutional Court Act was adopted in November 2007. During the application of this law, certain problems have arisen in the practice of the Constitutional Court, which, above all, relate to the overload of the Constitutional Court, for the reasons of the inherited cases of the Serbia-Montenegro court, as well as a large number of constitutional complaints filed, etc. Then he says – the existing legal framework did not allow the Constitutional Court to resolve certain procedural matters in a different way, except at the session of its judges, etc. That's more what my colleague Krasic was talking about. Again and again, we repeat the political failures found in the changes to bad laws. Is it necessary to pass such a law and amendments and additions with such a content? Yeah, it's necessary. The real question is, why did it happen? Then we return to the beginning of things, i.e. the adoption of basic text, or the Law on the Constitutional Court and what was adorned, or, I would say, represented an anomaly of the government that led this country in 2007. I'm sorry there are no DSS colleagues here, because they were also protagonists of making bad constitutions and then bad laws. However, there are protagonists who, even then, made the ruling majority and are now the ruling majority. There were, however, more in that government, but in the leadership of the state were the second violin of the barren politics of Vojislav Kostunica and that is why we are here where we are. The question is the same as the question concerning the Constitution itself. We remember when the Constitution was passed, and we know how it was brought in, we know with what anomalies, and we know what the referendum theft took 48 hours. When, immediately after the adoption of the Constitution, we asked the question of the nature of the norms that were opposed to each other, for example, Article 105, in relation to Article 134 which decides on the immunity of ministers, which is just the tip of the iceberg of the whole story of the Constitution. Then we were asked this question in this home to have empty views and answers from Mr Nikolic, also protagonists of referendum anomalies, who said – that is the issue for the Constitutional Court. What have you brought the Constitution which is bad and which, by the very act of adoption, is the issue of the Constitutional Court? I think we've got something like this again. Of course, it makes sense to pass a law like this. The question is – does it make sense to improve the law if there is no political will to apply the adopted solutions? I often define my students' rights as an asset, i.e. an extension of policy. It is logical that the Justice Ministry now has a problem, because the good solutions it insists on by the Ministry of Justice are facing a dam of upside down politics. Then we meet again with the problems I was talking about. Will the Constitutional Court have and defend its role to play in society in such an environment and online inability to apply legal provisions? I was just talking about a problem that the Department of Justice has and sometimes it looks like you're chasing windmills, because something that's done well is simply coming across a dam called upside down politics. I would also like the representatives of the ruling coalition and of all those responsible who can recognize themselves in my discussion to answer the questions I have asked. Because, indeed, there are no good legal solutions if we have a wrong policy and there is no political will to apply them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64685	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Vice-President of the Assembly, Mrs Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64686	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we discuss these amendments and the additions of the Constitutional Court Act, we must inevitably discuss the Constitution, because these are two subjects that are absolutely connected. They're compatible. They represent a common theme and what a Constitutional Court – such a Constitution and what a Constitution – such a Constitutional Court. Therefore, if we have certain amendments to the law here, which we welcome, after four years of the last Constitutional Court law, the question arises why has it been four years? When we look at the Constitution on which this Constitutional Court and leans, one very clear fact is that this Constitution creates a reality towards its needs, which in fact leads to the next situation – the freezing of conflicts, which is actually required from certain political circles, and these frozen conflicts in fact lead to permanent conflicts with the world, with the hope that maybe a hundred generations will profit from these permanent conflicts. It's actually that constitutional basis to work on. When it comes to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court should protect the legal order, the rule of law and the preservation of democracy. So, these positive changes that were really necessary because of the stifling of the Constitutional Court with, say, seven thousand pending constitutional complaints, and it is very interesting that nearly half of these pending constitutional complaints regarding the violation of citizens' rights in the Constitution are guaranteed the right to trial within a reasonable time. So, if citizens complain of violation of that right, it is really ironic that they eventually reach the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court in the same way in fact violates their rights, because for years the cases have been pending in that Constitutional Court. All these changes have shown, which are normally contained in this bill, that there is a certain political will in this constitutional matter to change something, which is, you will allow, a newspaper. Because the changes are not only enough to be carried out in the work of the Constitutional Court, but they are also necessary both in the work and in the contents of the Constitution, because they have shown the results of this Constitution, and preambles and certain parts of that Constitution, which finally gave way to December 9th, when Serbia is simply rejected in terms of European integration because it has not received the candidacy. Call it whatever you want, the December 9th candidacy was not won, among other things, by creating reality by that Constitution. This fact that today is trying to change the functioning of the Constitutional Court actually gives hope that tomorrow there may be some critical mass of political will to change the Constitution. Because if that happens, in that case we'll be able to get along with real life and in that sense lead politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64687	Thank you. The word would have been Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic, but he's gone. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64688	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Malovic's opening statement began with a sentence that the Constitutional Court law, which has been changing today, has been applied for four years. It's just amazing. What's the problem with some law being applied for four years? It should apply much more because both the law and the Constitutional Court are not some seasonal category, so now, imagine, we've been applying the law for four years. The Constitutional Court Act, i.e. its amendments and additions, certainly implies that we must also talk about the Constitutional Court, its work, the judges of the Constitutional Court, and I do not see why, before this, it was an observation that when it comes to the law that there was no more to go than that, there were indeed inappropriate insinuations of counterpart Nada Kolundzhia. Namely, when counterpart Krasic spoke of what he said to the mafia coalition government and why Nada Kolundzija recognized the government of Zoran Djindjic there, that is her problem. Perhaps the woman wants to play ball now, as a statement appeared in the media this morning that she worships Djindjic, and competition has now emerged. The SRS, or our parliamentary group, and I am now talking about a case related to the Constitutional Court, submitted an initiative on 11 May, i.e. a request for the termination of office by President of the Constitutional Court, Dragis Slepčević and Judges Olivera Vukic, Bratislava Djokić, Agnes Kartag Odri, Katarina Manojlović-Andrić, Milan Markovic, Bose Nenadić, Milan Stanic, Dragan Stojanović, Tomislav Stojkovic, Sabahudin Tahirovic and Predrag Cetkovic. The best example of how far this constitutional court in this system I have now read is actually a political institution that does not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia at all, which should protect, we can state and explain on this particular case. We remind ourselves that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has regulated both the choice of judges and the motion for resolution and we have, of course, found a legal opportunity to initiate the resolution of judges for the reason that, in the final outcome, the judge actually chooses, in most cases, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I do not wish to return to what you have proposed to Tadic, so he adopts what you have suggested to him, and Tadic suggests to you, so you adopt what he has suggested to you. But there is one legal logic – if someone chooses, and constitutional judges of the Constitutional Court chooses the National Assembly, it is logical that there must be a possibility that this same National Assembly, or part of it, has another option, and the SRS parliamentary group is part of the National Assembly and will be in an even greater number, although Mrs Nada Kolundžija, obviously intending to ban elections and ban voters from voting, because it is not clear how the voters chose this many Serbian radicals in this parliament, here, I am telling Mrs. Kolundji, will be after the next election more than it is now. So we also forwarded this initiative to the president of the National Assembly and the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and President Boris Tadic, to all those who chose, or proposed, judges. They all gave us express answers, except for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and they said the MP group couldn't handle this initiative. Why, then, do we today feel that all these judges do not deserve to be judges of the Constitutional Court? The conditions that these judges have to meet, which have not met, are a violation of the prohibition of conflict of interest, that is one part of the conditions, and a permanent loss of working capacity for the office of the Constitutional Court judge. We believe both of these conditions are met in this case. These claims are based on the fact that all these judges that I have mentioned in my behaviour have seriously compromised the credibility of the Constitutional Court institution by openly putting themselves in service of Boris Tadic's regime. Tadic's regime, in its unsustainable need, that is, the exponents of the regime to meet all the conditions of the European Union, has tried and succeeded, unfortunately, contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, to amend the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. This courting conduct of the regime was then, remember, stamped in public and the professional public did not accept these amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs as you in the congregation majority agreed. Then you figured out how to protect yourself from a negative otter of the expert public and you called for the Constitutional Court's decision. Now we have to remember a little bit. First of all, to remind ourselves that such behaviour at that moment, the conduct of these Constitutional Court judges is shameful and they have actually violated legal and moral principles and seriously threatened an institution that should be beyond and outside the law, whose superior function is regulated by Article 166. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines that the Constitutional Court is an independent and independent state body that protects the constitutionality and legality and human and minority rights and freedoms. These current judges, the Constitutional Court judges have shown several times, and I am now explaining one example, that they are neither independent nor independent, but on the contrary, that instead of protecting constitutionality and legality, they are protecting the sole interests of the ruling majority, or Tadic's regime. To remind ourselves, the debate on amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs has been initiated and the law has been passed under the exclusive order of the EU, the European Commission and the Venice Commission. That's what we talked about when we talked about this law, but here, you see, you're free of everything you've done for the EU, again the EU has said to you -- we're not going to, what are you going to do to us so corrupt, what you're going to do to us when you haven't definitely recognised the fake state of Kosovo, although formally, unfortunately, it is. Then a public debate was held in the Assembly, on 21 April of this year, and the public debate took the view that it was unacceptable for the election of MPs to be held in accordance with the order of candidates on the election list, starting with regular number 1, because it had prevailed that the Constitutional Court had actually annulled Article 102(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so it has put its mandates in the hands of committees and MPs, and this order actually means that the Assembly will be a flea market, that the mandates will be sold large and small. On that day, on April 21st, the Constitutional Court's decision, namely Gordana Comic, who participated in the public debate, boasted that she had a decision from the alleged regular 17th session of the Constitutional Court, which she claimed was held on April 14th, so six days before this public debate. Imagine, that's when the Constitutional Court found that it was a member of 84. The law on the election of MPs is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Nor was there a public word about it, and usually it is known what happens at the Constitutional Court sessions, the truth, these amendments of the Law will no longer be possible, because you have magically abolished the public work of the Constitutional Court, so there has been no discussion and suddenly a decision has arisen because these judges have been ordered to help Boris Tadic legalise and strengthen political corruption, by changing that Law on the selection of MPs. As far as we are concerned from the Serbian Radical Party, we argue, and we have also claimed to these initiatives that all this incontestably indicates that the judges, whose resolution we have requested, violated the ban, seriously violated the ban on conflicts of interest and that they have, in fact, permanently, lost their ability to judge the Constitutional Court as such. For, however, the Constitutional Court judges must possess a specific working capacity and cannot assess their working ability only by finding a physician, but their working ability should have both dignity and morality and integrity and commitment to the Constitution and the law and honorary exercise of the duties of the Constitutional Court judge. Unfortunately, those who are judges of the Constitutional Court today have none of that. You are then to make amends, since they, on this case we have shown, and Krasic also mentioned some examples of how the judges of the Constitutional Court are actually an instrument in the hands of Tadic's regime, and you are now making a fine remand of these laws where you create some of the people of the Constitutional Court, who will continue to protect, when you need them, you. So we said you magically abolished the public work of the Constitutional Court. I'm just going to, uh, fit into the time we're about to have, a few comments on the members, and there's going to be time through the amendments to say it in detail. You say that the Constitutional Court may extend the workings of the Court until the end of the time it has been elected, or appointed with its consent. The question is, why is it only done to judges of the Constitutional Court? What are these Constitutional Court judges? You're making a little bigger, big bigger, I don't know, you're tampering with the Constitutional Court, and now all of a sudden someone who started an object, so you're going to have to retire, you're going to keep it until this case is over, and practice tells us that this constitutional court, as well as the one that led Boss Nenadić, that in fact they, you heard ten years ago, determine whether any act is in accordance with the Constitution. So we're gonna have to wait for him, for God's sake. When it comes to the salaries of judges, you say the interesting position of this Article 20a – in case all the judges' seats are not filled in in the Constitutional Court, until their full payment by the President and the Constitutional Court judges increase 10% for each unfulfilled court post. It's really amazing. What do you mean and what does that mean? There are no 15 judges, there are 13 at some point, and the salaries of those two who don't work will be divided into others here, no matter whether they're going to be in a small council or a large council. If they're a little bigger, there's three of them, then they don't work, so they don't have to be paid. Especially that you pay them this way. It's like a market, transge-frang, we've got a little money left, let's share. It's just amazing. Public hearing sessions and other forms of work, you say in Article 22, the Constitutional Court may, after the Constitutional Court's decision, be held outside the seat of the Constitutional Court. First, if this were possible, and for us it wasn't, then it wouldn't be the subject of the law, it would be the rules you provide for in this law. It's really amazing where you'll be leading the Constitutional Court judges. Who are they gonna go to on their feet? Judges of the Constitutional Court to go to someone's feet?- I'm sorry. It's just amazing. Unless, of course, you intend to have the Constitutional Court session in Pristina, which we support. And you'll tell us whether or not it's your intention. We believe it isn't, and we think that you actually want this so that the Constitutional Court, God, sits a little bit in the clear air, a little on Zlatibor, a little on the Kopalnik, a little in Vrnjačka Banja, not just sitting in an office in Belgrade. So this is absolutely unacceptable to us. I will conclude with only one question - whether, since the Constitutional Court can and can move on its own initiative to examine constitutionality and legality, whether you have information from Mrs Malovic, and now we are publicly asking judges and presidents and judges of the Constitutional Court whether they have initiated the procedure themselves to determine whether it is your regulation, the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which you have recognised the Supreme Court of the false state of Kosovo, is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We know it's not, but we want to hear what your regimeal constitutional court is going to say about it. Mrs. Malovic, I asked Minister Markovic, and we are now asking you, as it has been leaked to the public that not all ministers voted in favour of this regulation, we want to know which ministers voted for this treasonous, unconstitutional, regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64689	Thank you. I call on Mr Krasic and Mr Jojic, the People's MP, to remove the books they hold because they disrupt the work and act contrary to the Rules of Procedure, advertising the readings that are not appropriate in the House of the National Assembly. Thank you. The word is Mr. Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64690	Madam Minister, Mr. Chairman, when you look at the international parallel law and the law of Serbia and the laws to be passed, you will notice that these laws are passed without being applied well in practice. Here, the Constitution was passed in 2007, the Law on the Declaration of the Constitutional Court Act was also passed in November 2007. So if the promoters were the same ones from the Justice Department people who proposed the Constitutional Court Act in 2007, are they the same people who suggest that the Constitutional Court Act be amended? Is that a condition for socio-political circumstances or not? Let's take it in a row. When it comes to Article 2, the question arises: Why is the public being excluded? As the proposer suggests, according to the provision of Article 3 of the Constitutional Court Act, paragraph 3: "The Constitutional Court can exclude the public only to protect the interests of national security, public order and morals in a democratic society, as well as to protect the interests of minors and the privacy of participants in the process." You see, in Section 4: "The disfellowshipping of the public does not apply to participants in the procedure, their responsibilities and representatives of the professional public". Why is this bill now disfellowshipping the public when the re-election of judges and prosecutors is being debated? There's no valid reason. Is that a general interest, national? No, ma'am. In my deep confidence, why are you running away from this and why the proposer is running away and why this right should be lifted and the lawyers, because a judge or prosecutor who is not re-elected has the right to take a lawyer, and the Constitution guarantees the right to take a representative, or lawyer, before all state authorities. So you're abolishing one constitutional right. What's the key here? The public needs to be shut down. Papers can only be seen by participants, God forbid a lawyer comes. Why? Because in all cases individually, now that a commission is formed, all cases of those 800 unselected judges would be analysed and determined whether the security services provided information to the High Judiciary Council in the election of judges or prosecutors, or not? This should be removed by, above all, predicting in the law the public work of the Constitutional Court, if it is not national interests. But God forbid the participants in the procedure come up with information that security services were delivering data, that they were listening to judges and lawyers and prosecutors, then it would be a really embarrassing situation for those who did. On the other hand, these eavesdroppings were not made in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, nor with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You remember in the earlier period, during Milosevic, four were only conditions and the reasons why listening can be done, and you have now extended it to 15 cases. So, if someone stole a chicken, he could be a bug. This is very dangerous, so, Madam Minister, you as justice minister should fight to amend the provisions of the CAP that are valid. In Article 5, why are judges of the Constitutional Court separate from other courts in the Republic of Serbia, from the basic to the Supreme Court of Cassation? Why can he extend his working life if his term of office is up? A little while ago, Mrs. Verica Radeta noticed it well and she said – she should do some work. Well, it's not like we don't have a lawyer and we don't have a constitutional law expert from all the districts of law enforcement, right? We do. Your biggest nursery is in law enforcement. The biggest crucible of good experts and good judges is in law, which in parallel is the case. So other judges don't have that right. With this you want to legalize the privileges of the Constitutional Court judges and place them above society and above the system. Why? Retired, you see under what conditions you suggest, to be his last salary in the service. Well, is that appropriate in our system? As you say, this is a democratic society and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia should be equal before the Constitution and the law. Now, here you break the constitution, you break the laws. Whoever thinks they're gonna do this will get into a situation where the citizens say, hey, stop the people, that's enough, you can't act like this. In Article 6, or in force, 20a is added. You see, Mrs Malovic, what a dangerous provision is introduced into the Law, it is very dangerous, the legal system of the Constitution, here the Constitutional Court will do everything to ensure that this court is never completed, it will delay its fullness because they have a material interest in those who sit and work in the Constitutional Court. You'll never have a full Constitutional Court. He will delay his completeness, for they have a material interest, those who sit and work in the Constitutional Court. You'll never have a full Constitutional Court. Which is now very immoral and illegal. This means that the President of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court, due to the lack of judges in the Constitutional Court, will receive 10% more salary than will be received by judges of the Constitutional Court, i.e. judges and other citizens. This way, nowhere in parallel law is normized or prescribed. Where's the problem, Mrs. Malovic? Have you noticed one illogicality, one injustice? The professors of the Faculty of Law who come into the Constitutional Court have 2,500 to 3,000 euros, and as far as I know, the Constitutional Court has about, as far as I have some information that there are about 140,000 to 150,000 dinars, if that's the exact information. But no professor under 2,500 euros receives a month's salary at the Faculty of Law. What's the matter? Now the one who comes from law school is going to get the difference between pay, so college and the salary of the Constitutional Court judge. You know how much longer he'll get? They'll have more pay than the Constitutional Court judges have. Why is that? Take the math and you'll see. You'll come to the conclusion if you check out what colleges the professors have to pay. You're putting the Constitutional Court judges in an unequal position compared to the one that comes from law school. Why hold the Constitutional Court sessions, so Ms. Verica Radeta pointed out and mentioned it? Mrs. Malovic, I have been struggling for more than ten years to end tourism in the judiciary. You know what tourism is? Take for the last 15 years from the archives and from the Ministry of Finance and your finance sector. Determine how many states and how many taxpayers had to pay for the tourism of judges, prosecutors and others who went to Zlatibor, Vrnjačka Banja, Kopalnik, Palic and not to count. So far, the Constitutional Court has never sat outside the seat of the Constitutional Court and constitutionality in Serbia. Why introduce something now, if we haven't had a case like this before, what's the Constitutional Court going to ambush us, say, in Vranjska Banja? Someone comes to mind, the president says let's go for a little bit to go to Vronjska Banja for seven days, or we'll go to the Bather and we'll have to go through some lungs. It's all done in the seat of the court. In parallel, there is no such thing as tourism. I am fighting this tourism and we do not achieve any result or effect with this tourism and these tips and the Kopanic School. If someone needs to give a professional lecture or counselling at the seat of the higher courts, or at the seat of the Court of Appeal. As for Article 9(3), I do not know what this provision means to you – if this law is not different. Something that absolutely one hollow norm, one empty norm. What does that mean? It doesn't mean anything to the law. When it comes to rewarding the clerks and the tenants. Mrs. Malovic, how will you explain it now? You suggest that 30% of the coefficients should have higher salaries of officials and deputies in the Constitutional Court, without others in state bodies, in the National Assembly, in the Government of the Ministries, in the Court of Appeal, in the Court of Cassation, in the Supreme Court and in other senior and primary courts. How can you give an explanation? What are they doing harder? At what depth in the mine do they dig ore so they need to be paid more than 30%? No, I don't. Just the same. Are we equal by law? Of course, we would have to be, but as it stands, even citizens won't be equal under the law. You see, this is a speciality. Lex specialis provision. You're predicting the budget of the Constitutional Court. Do you have a budget for the justice of the Republic of Serbia? You don't. Where to give the Constitutional Court the right that he has his own budget. It's the opposite of the Budgetary System Act. I don't think this is a good norm and it's not a good solution. What Mr. Krasic and Mrs. Verica said, see what's going on. It says when the Constitutional Court finds that one submission is obviously unfounded. This is really absolutely unacceptable and that he's going to throw it away. You see the clerk in the office decides that. It does not decide a metrically larger, or decision is taken not by the Supreme Court session, but by the clerk, and he is metricating it. It cannot be metrically solved, it must be examined and brought in an extended composition, so in the composition of how it decides, how it is normised in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the provisions of Articles 42, 42a, 42b and 42v, these provisions are directly contrary to Article 175. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You are predicting here the formation of large and small councils, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 170 says – The Constitutional Court of Decision makes most of the votes of all judges of the Constitutional Court. What do we do now? You see, Serbian radicals always find that the Constitution is being violated, and we're telling you that you're here in a difficult conflict with the Constitution. Secondly, bigger, smaller and bigger ones, they cannot make conclusions and solutions because there is no such thing in the Constitution, they can only make decisions, and solutions and conclusions cannot. He must, the Constitution predicts only the decision knows, and does not know the conclusion, does not know the solution. You're here, so you're in big trouble. So, Mrs. Malovic, I think the Constitutional Court is segregating and these are legalizing the privileges of the Constitutional Court judges, because this has never been so far. Find me a country in Europe that, like this, organizes work and sets up an organisation and decision by the Constitutional Court judges. Just to remind you, during the Sabre, the Constitutional Court did not want to initiate proceedings under official duty, an assessment of the constitutionality of the Sabre regulation. The second in the government of the Republic of Serbia after the prime minister's murder, one of the government's members says -- we have the constitutional court's consent, the police have to set up a holding for up to 30 days later, 60 days later, and the president of the District Court comes to the city's SUP Belgrade and they boast. For the first time in history, the President of the District Court came to the police and gave consent to the arrest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You need to fight against such decisions and against such behaviour by the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64691	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Peric Sreto.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64692	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, in their presentation on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Court Act, I will begin by quoting the provision of the 5th already in force law: "The Constitutional Court informs the National Assembly of the state and problems of achieving constitutionality and legality in the Republic of Serbia, gives an opinion and points to the need to adopt and amend laws and take other measures to protect constitutionality and legality". After this, I propose to you, Mrs Malovic, to all the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and to the members, or to the employees of the Secretariat for the legislation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to resign and that is the least you could do and to leave in one moral way where you are. For what? A colleague, Petar Jojic, quoted article 175 as saying. I've seen, you've written something down, you're probably going to have to polish it up later. You have no argument. I'm going back to clause 175. The constitution that says: "The Constitutional Court of Decision makes most of the votes of all judges of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court shall adopt two-thirds of the votes of all judges independently to carry out the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality. The regulation of the Constitutional Court and the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal fact of its decisions shall be governed by law." There's no way they can be chihuahua, these 15 judges of the Constitutional Court, so they're making themselves small and big bigger or who knows what you'd do all that. So there is no possibility, and on the basis of Article 175, except that all judges make a decision at the Constitutional Court session. For this reason, and I said what is the obligation of the Constitutional Court, or Constitutional Court, to send to the National Assembly some proposals for amending the law, to make some additions, etc. Then, you started your presentation with – this law has been in place for four years, as if this law had been applied for four decades, so now the time has come, matured, to shake it up a little bit, to change it a little, and then you said that you did an analysis of the application of this law and that you had some problems, or some irregularities that you really need to change. None of that is true. Getting ready for this session, I tried to see why your reform in the judiciary didn't go the way you wanted it to, as you would have imagined, and, above all, the citizens of Serbia, and even the employees of the judiciary, don't have a big advantage of your judicial reform, and then I couldn't find another reason, except maybe that this strategy, a national strategy for judicial reform, was adopted on 25 May 2006. You know, the son of all peoples and peoples celebrated something that day, so maybe it was some date that wasn't exactly for the adoption of that strategy, and then there were problems. You said that you did an analysis of the functioning of the justice system. Mr. Cosic, you were in one of these working groups, too, but, look, you don't have to resign, you read, you suggest something, it's not so bad for Serbian citizens, so you can still stay in that place. You have made one dynamic of what is short-term, what is medium-term, what long-term plans for reform in the judiciary, and then you have brought citizens of Serbia to pay you those judges who do and those judges who don't work and who knows who they still pay for everything, and you have good intentions and a good idea. You're suggesting that the Constitutional Court Act be amended. We really expect some new quality, but we must call on Article 1st and 166th, which defines the role of the Constitutional Court – the Constitutional Court is an independent and independent state body that protects constitutionality and legality. This is the basic, primary task of the Constitutional Court and human and minority rights and freedoms. Human and minority rights and freedoms protect both other laws and other state authorities and are obliged to act very securely so that Serbian citizens can exercise their human and minority rights and freedoms, of course. It must not be reduced to that level of rights acquired. It's not just the primary task of the Constitutional Court. You here in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court have placed everything possible and what should be in the jurisdiction of other state authorities and of the ordinary court. You are given the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court and must again ask the question of why you are doing so, and then certain rights related to the choice. You are also giving jurisdiction to the Constitutional Court and who knows what in some subsequent amendments and additions of this law you will not repeat to be the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court in order to make these high wages and the possibility of making good money, you have made it possible for the Constitutional Court to be very obedient to you. In the light of the fact that this is the two-thirds Constitutional Court of the President of the Republic. How's two-thirds? By electing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia five judges of the Constitutional Court, on a proposal from the President of the Republic of Serbia, of the proposed ten, and the President of the Republic elects five, i.e. five, on the proposal of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, of the offered ten. You see, out of 15, two-thirds are the President of the Republic. You're making a constitutional court for daily use. What makes you think that's right? They say you've been a good student, but it looks like there's something you're not doing very well or doing something that's been imposed on you by Boris Tadic's regime. Don't underestimate and humiliate your profession and profession, because when you do it from that place, you insult countless lawyers. You can't do that. Why should the Legislative Secretariat resign, and you are not consistent? If you had suggested that I could understand some of the provisions that already existed in this law. I like it best when I read a certain provision and then you write it down, and then you can deny it. Of course you can't. Article 82 says the procedure under the constitutional appeal - a constitutional appeal may be declared against an individual act or action of a state authority or organisation entrusted with public authority. Look what 35 says. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does he tell who is entrusted with public authority or speaking to a public authority holder? A public authority holder, in my opinion, is not the happiest term, but he's so defined by the Constitution and you can't take on any other way. So, the Legislative Secretariat would have to do a little bit of harmonising these laws that you propose and which National Assembly adopts. The impression here is that the Constitutional Court of this government, or I don't know from the government that was formed in 2001, has just been established, but just to remind ourselves that we have a Constitutional Court since 1963, since April of the month passed the law. The Constitution defines the existence of a Constitutional Court. Later, the Constitutional Court Act was passed and we have a Constitutional Court before. We've had nine presidents so far, 67-68 Constitutional Court judges, not counting on this final composition of the Constitutional Court, and when it comes to the biography of these judges, we've been able to read a lot, that someone stood out in the making of the most complex normative affairs, etc. and this is the Constitutional Court which has accepted and agreed to change the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to make some decisions that are not clear to anyone, i.e. they are clear to those who wanted to make such a decision and who insisted that such a decision be made. Article 5 The draft law on the Constitutional Court, you can see what it says here – exclusively from the position of the 1st member, the Constitutional Court may extend the workings of the Court of Justice to the end of the time it has been elected. Do you know what that means? First, it was extended to complete an ongoing case and it could be a few months, but the term of office of the Constitutional Court is nine years and has remained for a few months until his retirement right and it takes him a month or two to complete the case and then he will be extended eight and a half years to work as a judge. You said his retirement base would be paid in the last month. Now he can still work indefinitely. What's all this going to do? What your goal is to achieve with the Constitutional Court. Isn't it the protection of constitutionality and legality? This is the primary task of the Constitutional Court and everything else is an exception. What was defined by the Constitution, we saw what Article 169 said. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you have tried one substance that is very important, or one state body that is important, because one part of the Constitution, out of ten, is dedicated to the Constitutional Court. A solid number of members of the Constitution is also committed to the Constitutional Court. You change 42 out of 114 members of the existing law, you add 15 new members. You've practically beaten everything here and you've made one mess of this law, no one alive can handle it. What is this about, or what did you want to accomplish? We Serbian radicals are perfectly clear from the cited provisions, as compared to the bill with the Constitution, we see what you were going to do. Suspension of publication of a decision of the Constitutional Court. First in Article 21, you do not define until the Constitutional Court can delay the publication of its decision. Later, you said it was within six months, but what is the purpose of making such a decision if its application is suspended, or delayed for a certain period of time? It only binds what has been published, which has not been published, of course, that it will not commit you. You've made a lot of failures here, and you've shown that it wasn't an honorable intention for you when you approached the amendments and the additions of this law. Then, rewarding, participation, it's not said here that if there's one judge missing, there's not a judge elected by the Constitutional Court, what he would have achieved as a profit, that it would be divided. There may be more judges here and those who work for him or solve certain cases, they will be entitled to that fee. There are too many failures, too many dangerous things that you are introducing through this law to be able to conduct with both the rights and freedoms of citizens, so that you can also decide on election rights, thanks to the Constitutional Court and a certain political party has arisen today, and I have the opportunity to read this literature too. Look what it says: "Political fuck". All thanks to the Constitutional Court judges who said in April of last year who the mandates belonged to. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: What is the name of the book? ) The book is called "Political Fucker", and the morale portrait of Alexander Vukic, it's the title in this book, and it's all...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64693	Mr. Peric, I wasn't hoping I'd ever have to remind you of the courtesy of a decent dictionary, so I'm asking you to compare it and get back on the subject. Mr. Popovic, I warn you to remove literature that is not suitable to the House, because it interferes with the work. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64694	All I can say is that the SRS can't vote for this law. And, Madam Minister, once again, let me remind you, if you'd just like to endure or carry out some moral sequencings, I suggest from the beginning of my exposure to resign. I hope this is what the Constitutional Court judges heard and that they would do it, so they wouldn't do it directly and violate the Constitution exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64695	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64696	I'll talk about this book later, Mr. Novakovic, now I won't. Excuse me, how much time do we have left, this anti-European? (President: Let me just calculate. ) By my estimate 19 minutes but well, you have this European clock, maybe it's a little different. What do I do now? Mrs. Malovic is not here, and I hope the Justice Ministry secretary is aware of Homen's notification. To resolve some dilemmas. (President: You were right, 19 minutes and 30 seconds. ) That's what I'm telling you, 80% of your votes are taking your SRS in the next election, make that connection as soon as possible. I'm always right. I'm not asking you to tell me that, I know that. Now let me explain to you how there was a constitutional complaint with us. When the Law on the Constitutional Court of the SRJ was passed, a constitutional appeal was lodged and conditions under which a legal person dealing with the protection of human rights could seek protection from the Constitutional Court if there were violations of the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedom of citizens. That was quite restrictive. The first good example of using a constitutional appeal was when you expelled DSS 50 and some of them, and then they returned on the basis of that decision by constitutional appeal. When it came to the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then an idea was created that a constitutional appeal should be put in place as a means of addressing and an exception to the individual legal act that violates human rights and the freedoms of citizens being debated before the Constitutional Court. It is a bit legally tense, but that attitude prevailed. For what? To prevent a large number of performances that have been announced to go towards Strasbourg. Why? Because the SRJ, i.e. the State Community and Montenegro and Serbia, became a member of the Council of Europe in December 1993, and from that moment on, citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been granted the right to address the European Court of Human Rights as individuals and that is the fourth pillar of the European judiciary. But the Constitutional Court doesn't belong to the judiciary. The main and only exclusive jurisdiction is the assessment of constitutionality and legality. The Constitutional Court also exists because of the National Assembly, that during the change, a group does not interpret in any other way what is written in the Constitution. Then, further, to prevent the authorities of the executive authority from mutilating constitutional norms or laws with their general acts, etc. If we've solved it, then it's clear. The Constitutional Court has no pandemic in the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights is a court, the fourth pillar, where individuals address performances. It's very simple to understand. The decision-making procedure in the Constitutional Court is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and there is no need for the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to be copied into the text of the Constitutional Court Act, as it devalues the constitutional norm itself. It is taught in schools, but it is read books, Mr. Novakovic, when learning, and it does not stare at the Internet, and no strategies are read. If by 2006 it had been known that our judiciary would be mutilated, then no one would have put the constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court, but it would have received its other form, request or proposal and would probably have the Supreme Court of Cassation to prove that Serbia guarantees effective legal means before it goes to Strasbourg. But it's otto-pot. Since you've got all this messed up, I've got to distract you, you've cut the public works of the Constitutional Court. You're supposed to be in Section 3 of Section 2 re-forming, but you've only complicated things even more. You've left attitude three standing. He's incomplete. Why? We're bound by something. We are obliged above all by the need to respect the human rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If this is our obligation, then when it comes to the public, we need to understand that formal restrictions are possible to be prescribed by law, but these restrictions must be necessary in a democratic society. Now, is this a democratic society, that's another question. It's probably democratic because the Democratic Party is in power. When the Democratic Party is in power then all this is democratic and "sabre" is democratic and the vote from Bodrum is democratic and free action, it is all democratic. Furthermore, the public is excluded in the interest of national security, territorial integrity, Mrs. Malovic. Why did you drop territorial integrity as standard? Then, public security, in order to prevent riots and crime, Mrs Malovic, then protect health and morals, protect the reputation and rights of others, in order to prevent the disclosure of information obtained in confidence, Mrs Malovic, and to maintain the authority and impartiality of the judiciary. Maintaining authority and maintaining the impartiality of the judiciary doesn't exist with us. Why? We've got Homer. He tells you who will be arrested, when his trial begins, how much he will be convicted and where he will be on trial. You can't go after some journalist, Milovan Brkic or someone for writing, when a man follows a form of resistance, Home. You know the Resistance is now forbidden to hang around Russia. I said Putin - if I see one resistor, right now, I will never let you go again. Keep an eye out, these ministry resistances of yours don't get hurt, then you won't have anyone to work with, no one to sufflage with. As you can see, so, Mrs Malovic, necessarily in those standards means that there is an urgent social need. What is the urgent social need to exclude the public in the work of the Constitutional Court? So the public doesn't know. What public not to find out? I don't know, some people listen to you with a tape recorder, take a tape recorder, come to your office, pretend that the Secretary-General of the Republic is all recorded, go to the first corner, join a break, and then all the public listens. It is a democratic standard, a particularly democratic society in which Neda Arneric may vote from Bodrum. Is that decision annulled, and we all know it's illegal, that the election process Cori Udovici was contrary to the Rules of Procedure? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Isn't that right, Mr. Novakovic? Well, the G17 plus was showing the footage. How? You're giving up showing the footage. Remember your Xenia and Cynthia, remember the DSS that he was showing? Do you remember the Resistance that attacked her for that? What do they say? We're just watching you. They say: We did not burn the congregation so that you might vote from Bodrum. Although, now they're getting in your way, so they're controlling you. Furthermore, Mrs Malovic, all restrictions must also be proportionate, must be as an exception, proportionate, so as not to interfere with the exercise of some freedom or some right. Where is this standard represented by you? You think that standard is represented in the image and part of some Constitutional Court judge? Come on, please, don't laugh. Now Mrs. Bossa Nenadic needs to retire and she will push a full mandate. Other judges of the Constitutional Court have a full mandate to push. If there's a judge missing, then they'll split the money meant for that judge who hasn't been elected. Why? Well, please, the government's economy market in Serbia. Offer and demand. Offer and demand - if they have the money of the Constitutional Court judges, they are impartial, as Mrs. Kolundji said. That's why they need a lot of pay. Why didn't you make them pay as governor? You could have given them salaries, for example, as a bloody social justice fighter called Dusan Bajatovic – a million and 350 thousand each month receives and full of his mouth fighting poverty, so that everyone is fed up and no one is hungry. However, Tadic is also fighting poverty, so he made the National Office a folk kitchen. It's a particularly democratic society, hepatitis D, the worst form of jaundice, when DS rule. Mrs. Malovic, I am thinking of filing a criminal complaint against the government of the Republic of Serbia and all those who agree to this law. Do you know why? How is it possible for the Constitutional Court to enter into a metric debate of an individual dispute? How can the Constitutional Court determine the damages? What bright mind is that? Is he solving the property dispute? No, I don't. You wrote – it can be judged and damages. Look, after this, we don't need the Constitutional Court. You messed up the pots, you messed up the years of college, you messed up the calendars. You've got it all wrong. How is that possible? The Constitutional Court, and when a constitutional appeal assesses whether an individual legal act has violated human freedom or some right, it does not enter into a disputed relationship, but merely gives an assessment of constitutionality and legality. But no, you want to get over your knee and do what? To legalize the fact that for years unselected judges are getting paid, and they are not going to work, that you are stubbornly preserving the territorial organization that you have conducted and many of the places you have lost the courtroom, the place where a man can go, to seek, to address. No, you keep that strategy of yours that the Americans gave you money for. When they give money to do something, it must be done to their extent, not to the extent of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And so is this tripartite triumphant form of the Constitutional Court. Now the question is, who appreciates the Constitutional Court's decisions? It's just power. Only Homen and Snezana Malovic. Who else? No one alive appreciates that decision. Why? It's compromised. What is the purpose of these changes and additions? To reward the champions of the DS. What comes from all these provisions? You must respect the blue uniform, blue-black toga. You've made the Constitutional Court a UN tribunal, they're just short on wigs. Just to put more chicken nests on their heads and mimic the idea creator of Serbia's judicial reform. There are standards behind that. They come out of the sleeves of the law. It's all impeccable. No one can doubt that. Because they don't read the Constitution, they don't care. The fact that they're going for their own opinion at Mickey Rakic's, that doesn't really matter. So she should play nice. Serbia has a competent state authority. Do the citizens of the Republic of Serbia benefit from such a constitutional court? Citizens brought to the referendum the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so no matter what anyone said about the Constitution, there must have been elements to criticise, but the preamble could not have been better written. Preamble that KIM is part of the Republic of Serbia, please change everything, but you must not change it at all. I know you have a problem with KIM as an AP within the Republic of Serbia. I know you have a problem with Resolution 1244. Now you're banging your head around the offices against the wall, which isn't finished in 1999, but now we've got to get our hands dirty. You'll have to. Thank God, nothing depends on you. Every day, it will depend more and more on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You know? It'll all depend on them very quickly. Since this next item of the agenda is coming up, I've got some state work to do, so I'm gonna be gone. On election day, remember, all citizens have to control the vote, because they know there's a big election theft coming up. Huge. All those who voted, at eight o'clock p.m., come to the polls. Not someone for a thousand dinars to sell to Serbia. Remember that more. Burned. So, Mrs. Malovic, I'd recommend you pull this off the agenda. This can't possibly be justified. What adverse consequences will be if such a bill rushes through the vote, you can only assume. The second part, which may be even more important, be stronger for personal experience. You're a lot of failures. Everything you've done, it's unsuccessful. You signed a solution to deliver Karadzic and Mladic. Remember, you have remained in history recorded as a woman who signed a solution to deliver Karadzic and Mladic to The Hague tribunal, and the whole world knows that The Hague tribunal is an anti-Serbian guillotine. Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. These few seconds, hurry to the EU, please, they'll close the door soon, and you don't have to go back, you're better off there.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64697	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone who hasn't used their right to be a member of the 96th wants a word, or perhaps Mrs. Minister? Yeah. ) The word has a minister, Mrs. Malovic Snezana.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64698	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, I thank all the MPs who participated in today's discussion on the amendment and addition of the Constitutional Court Act in principle. In my current address, I will try to answer some of the questions that have been raised in today's discussion, but I am sure that in the discussion in particular, according to the amendments, we will have more opportunities to talk about the concrete provisions of the law. As regards the law, which relates to my previous discussion, the Constitutional Court Act that was adopted in 2007 and that it has been in place for four years, that part of the discussion referred to that in the Constitutional Court law, given certain powers given to the Constitution itself, and primarily to proceedings under constitutional appeals or appeals by judges and prosecutors, this is a new jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. When we passed the Law in 2007, we certainly couldn't fully figure out what the procedure would look like before the Constitutional Court, because during the application of a certain law, it is seen whether it is necessary to intervene with regard to some amendments and additions, as we have done with the current draft law before you. On this occasion, I would like to point out that this was not done in a cryptic manner, not done overnight. On the contrary, for a long time these changes and additions are being prepared. We also had some consultations with the Constitutional Court judges. I will remind you that a round table was held a year and a half ago with representatives of the constitutional courts from the region, as I recall there was also the President of the Constitutional Court of Croatia, where we looked at their experiences, which have much longer than we have in the application of procedures under constitutional appeals. In addition, appropriate opinions have also been obtained, with the competent state authorities also the Venice Commission's opinion has been obtained. They were recently visiting Belgrade a month ago, where they discussed certain legal solutions with both the justice ministry and the judges of the Constitutional Court. Afterwards, they translated this into their expert opinion which is highly respected and almost all the recommendations of the Venice Commission are contained in this bill. If I'm not mistaken, of the ten recommendations of the Venice Commission, eight are accepted. This also points to the fact that the question here – did the current judges of the Constitutional Court have the opportunity to consider this bill? As I said, in a conversation with representatives, experts from the Venice Commission exchanged opinions and opinions from the Venice Commission represent some product of talks between them and the Constitutional Court judges. Also, in the Venice Commission's opinion, the need for a change of the constitution has also been pointed out. This issue has been opened in our public as well, and if at one point there is a need to amend the Constitution or to agree on the amendment of the Constitution, I believe it will be of great value to the future legislator. However, as long as the current constitution is in force, it will apply. The Ministry of Justice, in all its activities, especially with regard to draft laws, will respect the provisions of the Constitution. That's why I want to point out certain discussions that concern that certain solutions are not in line with the Constitution. For the sake of the public and the citizens of Serbia, I must point out this and the question asked about Article 82 of the existing law, which concerns the constitutional appeal procedure, to point out that it is identical to the constitutional provision, Article 170. The Constitution, where, in its first position, as well as in the first position of Article 82, says that a constitutional appeal can be declared against individual acts or actions of state authorities or organisations entrusted with public powers which are in violation or deny human or minority rights and freedoms guaranteed by the constitution, if they are exhausted or other remedies for their protection are not provided. So he's absolutely identical to the 180 I just read, Article 82, so I can't see what's in there against constitutionally, if the norm is absolutely prescribed. The same applies to the composition of the large and small councils introduced by this bill. Namely, in Article 175. The constitution is said that the Constitutional Court makes decisions with the majority of the votes of all judges of the Constitutional Court. So the Constitutional Court has the authority to make decisions, to take other procedural acts, such as solutions or conclusions. This bill absolutely respects the constitutional norm, so that all decisions to be taken will be made by majority of votes, unrelated to whether they are taken at the plenary session or taken at the Great Council session, and that other procedural acts such as solutions or conclusions can also be taken at small councils. Also, I would like to refer to the discussion on the composition of the Constitutional Court. It is absolutely regulated by the Constitution and it is a consistent respect for the regulation of the constitution itself. I can't understand that discussion either, since the Constitution was brought here with the consent of almost all political parties. I would also like to point to the fact that, according to the European Court of Human Rights, the constitutional appeal, which has been most said here, has been assessed as an effective remedy and, in particular, according to this opinion, we want to intervene to keep that opinion still and for this reason, and we have introduced such a new pre-composition of the Constitutional Court in their work, which could respond, both to the interests of citizens and to the position of our country in international forums. The same goes for the increase in salary. As I said, everything we have provided for in this bill is being monitored by the Constitutional Court and should contribute to the strengthening of their independence and independence and separation from other state structures. We did so with courts, where regulation and wages and certain judge status are regulated by the judge's own Law. And in this respect, the Constitutional Court Act regulates both their salary and their way of determining the basis, the way in which the coefficients and other benefits belong to them. Like I said, to a large extent, she's the same as for regular judges. As I said, I hope that in the discussion of the details we will discuss some concrete provisions and thank you again to everyone who participated in the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64699	I thank you, too. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. Based on article 87, I'm setting a break. We will continue the work at 14.00 hours, discussing the details of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Election List Act. Have a nice lunch. At 2 p.m., we'll proceed. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the afternoon session. The minister's here. We expect him to come in. Good afternoon, Minister. Here you go. Let's call the assistant minister and chief. Here you go. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the Assembly, Mrs Slavica Đukić Dejanović, has called for the search in particulars of the 1st item of the agenda - THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAWS AND ENDS OF THE LAW ON THE UNITED BIRAČEK, in addition to the representatives of promoter Milan Markovic, the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, the State Administration and the Local Government, and Gordana Stanic, Head of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandar Martinović, Bojan Mladenovic, Milan Avramović, Dusan Marić, Zoran Krasic, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga, Radovan Radovanovic, Zlata Đerić, Radoslav Mojsilović, Srdjan Spasojevic, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Peljević, Mileta Pokurica, Gojko Radić, Mić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragović and Draga Draga Draga Dragić. You have received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we continue our work, honourable MPs, allow me to welcome on your behalf the best high school students from Odzak, who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. The gallery includes: Zorana Ilic, Jovana Draskovic, Tijana Lazarevic, Andrea Milenkovic, Sofia Lazarevic, Stefan Zlatkovic, Srdjan Miletic, Milos Stankovic, as well as Milos Pejčić, president of SO Odzaci. Welcome to your house, to the House of the National Assembly. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Bojan Mladenovic, Milan Avramovic, Dusan Maric and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Of course, Mr Nemanja Sarovic, the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party and the applicant of the amendment, appears and gets the word. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64701	You're very kind, Mr. Novakovic. We hope you won't be replaced by a colleague in the follow-up debate. That would be devastating for Serbia's democracy, as usual, but to return to the amendment. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted almost all members of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Single Election List of Amendments. Given that all amendments are extremely meaningful and well explained, I must really say that I expected at least a few amendments to be accepted. Unfortunately, Mr Markovic, or Mirko Cvetkovic, who, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, signed an explanation for why the Government does not accept these amendments, did not find it appropriate to accept any of our amendments, and it is also my first question to Mr Markovic who, I suppose, bitch SMS messages at the moment. Mr. Markovic, if you could pay attention. So my first question is are you behind this opinion that we have received, the opinions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments that have been tabled on the proposal of this law? Did you write an explanation or did someone else write this argument? Was it Mirko Cvetkovic, so maybe he didn't have time to read at all what it was about? But these arguments you've given for not accepting are completely absurd. In Article 1, you asked for a change in the position of Article 5 of the existing law, i.e. to change the position of 2 which is read, and I will read this – a solution based on changes in the electoral list, relating to the voter who has a residence abroad and who submits an application for a change in the voter's list through the diplomatic consular representation of the Republic of Serbia, always performs and brings the ministry responsible for the affairs of the state administration. We have suggested that it remain such a solution, given that the ministry responsible for the affairs of the administration and should run that unique voter list in accordance with the law, and that there is a possibility, or we have asked to add item 3 to the vote – the voter who has a residence abroad and who submits an application for registration to the municipal or city administration directly on the electoral list of the municipal, or city administrations in the country's place of residence. In our opinion, this is something that is most economical and efficient. So, the voter who submits a request to the diplomatic consular office will communicate with him, with diplomatic consular offices, will contact only the Ministry of State Administration, while in those cases where the request is submitted directly to the Republic of Serbia, in any municipal or city administration, it would then be that city or municipal administration that enrolls in the voter list. You didn't accept this solution. Under the bill of law, you predicted that they directly communicate all municipal and city administrations in Serbia with all diplomatic consular offices of Serbia in the world. In your explanation you say the first thing – the amendment is not accepted. The second sentence - the proposed solution is contained in the draft law. That's not true. I just read it. You can see that what we have proposed by amendment is different from what is in the bill. That's exactly why the amendment was submitted, to change something, not to suggest once again what is already in the text of the proposed law. Then you say next, it's a good thing these young and future voters are here to try what this means. You say – The bill provides for the possibility that the voter who has a residence abroad submits an application for entry into the electoral list or directly to the municipal, or city administration, or through the diplomatic and consular representation of the Republic of Serbia abroad, and in both cases, the municipal, or city administration, shall register it in the voter list, according to its place of residence. So, you're saying yourself that wherever the voter submits, whether abroad, whether the municipal, or city administration, registers it in Serbia, and then, in the next sentence, you claim that this is because the proposed solution respects the need for the process of enrolling in the voter list to be as effective and economical as possible. How is it possible for it to be more efficient and economical? 168 local self-government in central Serbia, 30 in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. 198 units of local self-government in Serbia. According to the foreign ministry, Serbia has 63 embassies in the world, seven missions and 23 consular representations. In all, therefore, 93 diplomatic and consular representations that you are predicting in this law. You now claim that it is more economical and efficient to communicate with 93 diplomatic and consular representations in the world on the one hand 198 municipal and city administrations. Do you know what this relationship is? This means, for example, that the Embassy of the Republic of Serbia in Brussels directly communicates with the municipal administration in the municipality of Crna Trava and Bojnik, and Trgovište, and Subotica, and Belgrade, and Kraljevo with everyone, with all 198. When you multiply that, it is a total of 18,414 different links between all diplomatic and consular offices and between all municipal and city administrations in Serbia. On the other hand, an amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party has been proposed to communicate exclusively with all diplomatic and consular representations abroad, leading to a total of 93. Rarely what it can do, especially right to mathematically calculate and perform some exact data. In this case the proposed solution, the solution proposed by the Serbian Radical Party, is exactly 198 times more effective and economical than what you are predicting. So, no rational reason, no normal reason, no one who is in common with common sense, I'm sure he couldn't write such an explanation, and then you say that's the last argument, you're saying that your solution removes the dilemma that voters from abroad have because of the involvement of two authorities, the competent ministry and the municipal, or city administrations in the process of enrolling in the voter's list and informing about the data recorded in the voter list, as so far it's been regulated by the applicable law. You yourself, therefore, claim that the law that you have brought yourself, which you have brought to Mr Markovic, that is, who brought to your proposal the National Assembly two years ago, that it is confused, that it cannot be applied, that it is not effective, although it has not yet begun to apply that law. This law came into force two years ago, and its application was delayed for a period of two years, because it was a maximum period in which you estimated that you would make a unique voter list. In December 24, so in a few days, this law will begin to apply. You, among other things, provided that this law would be postponed again, but Mr. Markovic, you ignored one fact, which is the fact that these laws will only be voted on Monday, on Monday, it will already be passed, on December 26th, so the application of this law will begin, which means that what you are doing on one side is against the law, you cannot delay the application of the law that has already started to apply, and on the other hand it is quite obvious that the solution proposed by the amendment is much better than what you foresee by amending and supplementing the law. I hope that you will answer one more thing, and that is to hear how much it is, that is, how these affairs are progressing in the single polling list, you refused to say the previous one to the previous one, the previous time we discussed this law in principle, you refused to make a precise statement, I think it is very important, first of all, because the conditions of fair and democratic elections are the formation of a single voter list, you know that I showed you the last time, that only in the municipalities of Tutin and Novi Pazar there are thousands of people who are double-listed, so you don't even know how many times they're listed in Tutin and Novi Pazar, you know very well, I said that last time, for example, there's a problem that many people don't have a single number of citizens written down at all, and you can't even know for them how many times they're listed in the electoral list. Practically every name and last name is repeated in the polling list several times, who knows how many Milan Markovic, who knows how many people are named Nikola Jovanovic, Nikola Novakovic or Natasa Jovanovic, these are dozens, hundreds of thousands of people depending on how often the name is, the only way to solve this is to form a single voter list. You until the five-octobar revolution until you came to power, after that bulldozer revolution represented a unique electoral list, and the condition of democracy, as some European standard now eleven years after that, you stopped talking, you cried the previous time how difficult it was for you, how much energy you invested. This time, I hope you will overly base your arguments and communication with the MPs on facts, not on some of your subjective attitudes or difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64702	The word is from Mrs Jovanovic Natasa, vice president of the assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64703	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the argument made by counterpart Nemanja Sarovic is absolutely founded, Mr. Minister, and I will support it with some events from the near past. You will see because in the course of the principle debate, you said it was your obligation and that by December 24 you had to appear with amendments to the Single Election List Act, which is what the deadline obliges you to do when it comes to our citizens living in the diaspora, or diaspora. However, regardless of what you consider, and there has been controversy over the constitutional deadlines and the situation in which you have found yourself because of the collapse of your journey to the EU, and this is obvious, because of the further pressures and blackmails that you will suffer from both the US and the EU, the terms and timing when elections are to be discussed. Even if they were within the deadline provided for by the Constitution and how you predicted that they should be discussed in early March and that parliamentary and local elections in Serbia should be held on 6 May. I guarantee you, Mr. Markovic, that only now, given the fact that we are not going to be in a situation like this in view of a radical member of the first proposed law, will we not be in a position to help our people living abroad, regardless of what is today December 21st, so while you vote this law, until it comes into force. Because it is precisely the problem, Mr Markovic, and you know very well, the work of the diplomatic-consular presidency, because they are not at all interested, Mr Markovic, not in 2004, or in 2006, when there was a referendum on the new Constitution of Serbia, nor in 2008, to help our citizens who have the right to enter the list. And you now do not accept Mr. Sarovic's argument and the Serbian Radicals, but you think that the authorities of the municipal administration will succeed in completing the job in the way that you provided for this member of the 1st diplomatic and consular presidency. We believe that, and I believe that you have asked some people who know something about it and who want to help, there are light exceptions, although mostly in these diplomatic consular offices there are exhausted personnel and DS and various other parties, coalitions. They're not interested in their work. They don't care, they went there, they got that diplomatic post in four years. Many of them told us when we travel to these international delegations – here I am, now I have time to read, write some books, and so, individuals, not really all of them, and how badly they treat Serbs who do not have help from the queen. We talked about when Sretkovic was here and there was still no vote, which we submitted, about his malfeasances and bad work, and now, Mr. Minister, I'm going to illustrate some exact information to you. In fact, when something was expected, I do not have the exact figures regarding the number of voters for the last parliamentary and presidential 2008 elections, but when the 2006 referendum was 16,55% of them alone voted out of the total number of voters, and that number did not change significantly later in 2008, only 2,765 Serbs living abroad took advantage of their right to vote. Mr. Markovic, since we have heard various estimates that are truly grand and unfounded, how much do you think or have some information, and you say that there are some of our people living abroad who are supposed to be on the ballot list and who are going to exercise their right to vote? There are estimated to be over a million, etc., someone says there are two million people of Serbian origin living on all continents, most of which are accounted for in the Americas or the Chicago area, but these people are of Serbian origin and they do not have Serbian citizenship, although they can carry it out under the Law on Nationality of the Republic of Serbia, which we adopted several years ago, and you, along with our assistance for that Article of the 7th Law. Mr Markovicu, the fact is that of those 18,000 people in both the parliamentary elections and the referendum, less than 3,000 people on the entire planet of Serbian origin, that is, the Serbs used the right to vote. How incompetent these at diplomatic consular offices, Mr. Markovic, are best told the fact that they, the MPs, the people, are calling us citizens. It happened to me, a lady from around Chicago, so I got a call from a woman, or a whole family from southern France, and they say they're not able to animated us, to let us know when and where consular representations are going to open, to take advantage of the right to vote, and now you're giving them the right to answer these questions. That's completely pointless. You're that organ, the Department of State and local self-government, which you're about to do right now if you want to do this job once. Mr. Markovic, you must first as a ministry, you can see that this Sredkovic has only watched that, according to the diaspora lottery, Sredkovic lottery, with his hand and hat to share these SPO-exposures of money abroad, you will have to be that organ, or that ministry that will animate these people in every way and guide them and use all the potential for them to do so until the start of the vote, if that is the 6th of May. In Moscow, for example, it is estimated that there are 30-40,000 Serbs with the right to vote. Only 300 of them took advantage of the right to vote in the previous elections, i.e. for a referendum. Several hundred of them have just reported to the diplomatic consular office, but they were unable to register them in the voter's list in good time. What happened to the Serbs living in Chicago? In one election, 2004, parliamentarians, there are the largest number of those who have Serbian citizenship and who have gained the opportunity to vote, they were suddenly, several days before the elections transferred to Washington. Can you imagine the situation so people don't know how they're not allowed to go now and how they can vote? Mr. Markovic, these people, no matter what they live in, if you thought of them when you were this so-called. The unique election list of rules, which is not, are derived from the local government's electoral lists, are absolutely decommissioned by various other grounds. Be assured, if you were to get a little deeper into that story, and not only were you to fulfill that legal form, if you saw how bitter they were to such a queen's relationship with them, then you would realize that those from diplomatic consular offices are neither capable nor should they be able to do it, that they would allow them to get the right to vote by May and that the voter's list is being updated.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64704	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Bojan Mladenovic, Milan Avramovic, Dusan Maric and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64705	First of all, Mr. Markovic, I really must once again express my hope that you will change your attitude so far and that you will begin to participate actively in the debate. As Mrs Comic likes to say, it is not necessarily the minister's presence, it is some good practice, as she interprets it, but it is the minister's presence primarily necessary to remove some of the dilemmas that MPs have. How much is the interest of MPs from the ruling parties, and for the sake of the others, it can be seen by the fact that perhaps one of the two MPs of the ruling coalition and Mr. Novakovic, who is the chairman, but he is there because it is necessary, because he must and certainly will not participate in the debate. This shows what level you have led democracy in Serbia and how much you have unearthed the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedures you have brought to these dragon sentences you apply to MPs. If now that one law is passed that is so important, a few months before the elections that await us, if only two or three MPs of the ruling coalition are in the hall it is certainly an indicator of how much you will attach importance to this law to the public. Much more pointless things, laws that will affect the future of all Serbian citizens much less than this Single Election List law gets a much bigger media space, but you are the ones who control the media and who can do it however they please. The amendment to Article 2 has been asked to amend Article 10 by adding Article 3 that reads as follows – a solution based on changes in the electoral list, which relate to the voter who has a residence abroad and who submits a request for change in the electoral list to the direct municipal or city administration, brings municipal or city administration to his place of residence in the country. Paragraph 4 is then added, which reads that the solution provided for in this Law for the entry into the voter's list for internally displaced persons until the voter list is concluded, will be brought by the municipal or city administration according to the place in which it is registered as an internally displaced person and that Article 3 thus far becomes item 5. For the same reason that I have cited for a moment, I think it is incomparably more effective that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which is legally responsible for running a single electoral list, communicates with diplomatic consular offices in the world that has 93, but that all 198 local self-government in Serbia does so individually with each diplomatic consular representation. That way, if you don't accept it, and it's not too late yet, the amendment of the SRS will be in a position for everyone to communicate with everyone. You know that most municipalities don't have that possibility, that it's going to be extremely difficult and that's exactly something that can cause confusion. That way, you create 18,414 individual relationships instead of 93. So, 198 times, mathematically demonstrated, more efficient and more economical solution proposed by the SRS. Essentially, the amendment to Article 2 goes the same way and beats the same principle that we tried to achieve by amendment to Article 1. Unfortunately, you didn't accept it, but what's more interesting, let me say, is that your argument is why you reject the amendment to Article 1. That's where you say - the amendment is not accepted. The decision by which all changes in the voter's list of voters residing abroad are carried out by the municipal, or city administration around its place of residence in the country will make a significant contribution to the accuracy and urgency of voter records. I would ask you, Mr. Markovic, because I don't understand this, this explanation for you and me, but also for the citizens of Serbia, to give some simple example, which is as simple as possible, so that we can understand how this will be more effective, more up-to-date and more accurate, if this job is done by municipal and city administrations, instead of doing so by the Ministry of State Administration, which should certainly be run by that unique electoral list, if, by any chance, he ever has been made for your term of office. The other thing you say, you say your solution will allow all possible shortcomings in the voter's list to be seen. So, when 198 municipal and city administrations run ballots only for their city, or their municipality, you claim that it will be easier to detect errors than if the job is done by the Ministry of State Administration and if there is a single electoral list. I don't really know if and what argument that is? Healthy reason, simply, any sound logic, imposes on the fact that there will be a better sense of shortages, if that noise was done by the Ministry of State Administration and if the list of voters is unique, than if each municipality is individually running that voter list for itself. How is someone from the Tutin municipality gonna know who's on the list, for example, in Little Ijos? These are municipalities in which the largest number of people without a single birth number, i.e. in Mali Ijoš municipality, in the 2008 elections, no single voter had registered JMBG, although this is something the law prescribes, although it is the only way to carry out any control. Of course, despite the fact that it's obviously a violation of the law, you've allowed all these people to vote. I'm not saying that anyone who has a right should be denied the right to vote, but clearly you must choose between two options. One is that the laws you've passed, you respect. The second option is, if you don't want to respect them then change them, so tell us nicely, what we talked about in 2009 is the European standard, now that Serbia has improved, or I guess we gave up, if God does, from that EU bid. But you have to make up your mind. What is the worst possible situation and what is the right to view the worst possible solution is that you have certain legal provisions, that you have certain conditions prescribed, that they are not applied, or that they are applied selectively. This means, for example, that if I don't have a home number listed in the voter's list, I won't be able to exercise voting rights, but if I can do it in Tutin, I'll be able to do it in Sjenica, I'll be able to do it in Novi Pazar, first of all, in places where a large number of members of national minorities live. Finally, this last argument that you have stated is that, as you say, any shortcomings in the voter's list can be easily removed by the law provided for, if the municipal and city administrations individually manage these lists. Mr. Markovic, isn't it easier for an authority to do so, that is, to do so by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, than just to do it all for itself? What may be my biggest regret is that it seems to me that you are making this law a practical retreat, and by this law, around it, you are telling the citizens of Serbia that there will be no single electoral list in the next election. You, and you know it well, promised that this job would be done. Will he and when he will, I'm really not inclined to make predictions. Mr Markovic, it would be high time for you, too, to chat with your associates and thus interfere with the MPs who discuss the law, to finally get involved in this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64706	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after all these indisputable arguments made by Mr. Sarovic, I really think it would be a turn for citizens who are watching this transmission to hear at least one reasonable and reasoned explanation by Mr. Minister, which is why he does not accept amendments to the article. 1st and 2nd of this proposal. Otherwise, this is one of the problems resulting from the fact that Serbia still does not have a single voter list. Also, we remind again of the fact that before 5 October 2000, one of the main pre-election promises of the then DOS coalition was that Serbia would receive a single voter list after they arrived at power. I will now quote one of the pre-election promises from the flyers of the then DOS -- the creation of a single polling list for the Republic of Serbia, to prevent electoral theft and the end of citizens' will. I remind you, it was then September 2000, and today it is the end of December 2011. It's been over a decade, and the ruling coalition wasn't enough to keep this one easy pre-election promise and make a single voter list. You have computers, you have information about all of the adult citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at least two places in the home services of local self-government units, in police stations. If you wanted to make a voter list, even if you didn't have computers, you could have done it, as the people say -- on foot, on these ordinary typewriters. The only explanation why you didn't do it is because you obviously don't want us to go to the next election with a unique voter list. That wish can only be the result of the fact that you plan an election theft. I will use the minister's presence to remind him of his two statements from a different period, I quote on 4 March 2008, a draft law on the electoral list that will regulate the procedure and way to run a single electoral list for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, should be completed by the end of this month, in March 2008. We are also working on a pilot project to technically form a single polling list, and I expect a single polling list to be established by the end of 2010. This was in March 2008. It was only in July 2008, that a new Serbian government was formed, and only on June 25th 2009, that government passed a bill on a single polling list, and this assembly translated the bill into law on 11 December 2009. Meanwhile, the minister moved the deadline for setting up the list, so on July 1st 2010, he said next – by the next elections, we hope that a single voter's list will be completed, so every full-time citizen will be able to decide where he wants to vote. It will only take 15 days before the election to report to the state authority where they would vote, and that will be done electronically. Since then, more than a year and a half have passed, however, no sign of a voter's list yet. Yesterday I made an insight into the polling list of the City of Belgrade and I must tell you that I have seen certain illogicalities, which indicate that something is wrong. It says that Belgrade City has a million five hundred and eighty-seven thousand eighty-eighty-sixths of voters listed in the voter's list. It's the state of yesterday, December 20, 2011. According to the results of the census made late last month, Belgrade has a million 639,000 121 residents. Now according to this, when you compare these two figures, it turns out that Belgrade has only 51 thousand children, i.e. 51 thousand inhabitants who are under 18, who have no right to vote, and that is not possible. According to official records in Belgrade, there are 230 thousand students, if we add 20-30 thousand children to that number of students in preschool institutions and young children, then we get the data when we add this number to the number of voters, that Belgrade has about a million and 900 thousand inhabitants, which is for more than 200 thousand of the results showing the census. Either not every eight people are listed in Belgrade, which sounds just amazing to me, if that's the case, then you have to re-write the census, or you have at least 100,000 false voters listed on the voter's list, which again indicates, if that's true, that the ruling coalition is preparing to steal the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64708	The 3rd Amendment in the same text was jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandar Martinović, Bojan Mladenovic, Milan Avramović, Dusan Maric and Zoran Krasic, together with Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Mr Milan Avramović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, the fact is that your failure to participate in this debate means in some way approval. In addition to consultations with your associates, you can see for yourself what is from our seat from the bench, that the arguments presented by the SRS MPs and how they are supported by the evidence and serve the improvement itself, not the text of the law, but also its function, with this law not in the agenda of the European Commission which has obliged you to hold certain deadlines, such as the shameful December 9th, for which we had a merger of incompatible in the assembly procedure, for which we met day and night. I believe that because it is not on the list of the European Commission's agenda, you have the opportunity to accept what is good for the application of the law. In fact, you have the opportunity to accept amendments from the MPs of the SRS. As far as Article 3 is concerned, in which you allow the voter to vote wherever he was on election day, without confirmation of voting law, is something that cannot be accepted in any democratic world in the process, not in any democratic country in the way that you have predicted by eradicating the position of an existing member in this law. If we're going to apply on the basis of the fact that we found ourselves at some point where we found ourselves, it allows us to visit 20 municipalities during one early afternoon, in all 20 municipalities we apply and vote in all 20 polling stations. What is also a misunderstanding about how the voter list will be, a unique voter list, because it is not known whether it will be applied, because your excuse for its application refers to whether the elections will be extraordinary or regular, in fact its function and testing will only last for two years and therefore it remains unknown whether it will function at all in the next elections, how you will apply these lists to local and local elections, whether you will form because of the extraordinary elections in the Sava Venac municipality of electoral committees across Europe and Serbia, because someone may happen outside the Sava Venac municipality, and has a desire to vote for some representative or for some list of local elections. A simple question that allows you first to save in the budget, that such election committees are not organised. Secondly, to give an explanation – which is why it is necessary, will someone, because of their official, professional or any obligations that you have stated in the explanation, be outside of their place of residence and why it is necessary for such a vote to be in office, when it is very well known when the elections will take place, how long the election campaign, where the polling stations are. Everyone gets invitations from the Bureau of Statistics and all municipal, republican, city electoral commissions notice where their polling place is located, where the street, in which the working time works, etc., everything that is common knowledge. Mr. Markovicu, you can't make this possible, to say that out of the 38 thousand residents registered in the Sava Venac municipality, and there were 47 thousand, one amount of 10% of the population voted outside the municipality itself, without the control of the election boards. Who's going to control whether it's the right vote, right, and if those people voted at all? When there is no control by the electoral committees, otherwise, if you do not accept this, we will not need election committees, because you allow me to vote from the municipality of Strpce with KIM for local elections in the Sava Venac municipality. How are you gonna check it out? Don't forget to form a constituency board in the municipality of Strpce. How are you going to do that, the question is, because at some point, I was officially visiting a ski center because it needs to be sold by the state of Bezovica. I object to that sale, and I went to check it out. I was in the day of "D" when the elections were and I now want to vote for the representative of the SRS, to be president of the Sava Venac municipality, how am I going to do that? By finding myself there at that time and applying to this alleged single polling list, I will remain until the next election, or until my next application, recorded that I voted in the municipality of Strpce as a representative of the SRS at the local level in the Sava Venac municipality. So when we separate these things and divide the function, the obligation and the role of the single voter list, there will be a clear possibility for everyone that they can vote for one morning, wherever they are, in each polling place, in each municipality of one. The election committees cannot control such a situation and it is an open space for manipulation. If we take a new number of lists published by the Statistical Office, you will see that it is a debate from municipalities to municipalities, from one address to the other and how large and that it makes it even more difficult to operate this yet non-existent single polling list. Without confirmation of voting law, Mr. Markovic, there is no going to the polls, no voting without confirmation of voting law. Otherwise, we will be able to give electoral rights to those who may not be able to meet the legal conditions and then there will be abuse. We will import people from the municipality into the municipality or from another country to Serbia until the election process. When the election process is over we'll put them back and the dots don't work, the votes have arrived, no matter how many voters there are. I will especially remind myself of the abuse that took place in the extraordinary elections in the municipality of Voždovac, that the SNS had the task and the obligation to report to the municipality of Voždovac at least 100 people in order to secure a certain censorship victory that they needed. After the election, these people disappeared from the Voždovac municipality, returned to their homes, where they were, and some favored victory was recorded, which made it clear that the votes had arrived on the side, in fact, that they were imported as needed. So that this would never happen again because these people operate on the principle of umbrellas, glasses, medical, gynaecological examinations, garbage, blocks, I don't know what they've shared, they can't function based on the application, if they didn't provide that application in time as a confirmation of electoral law, and then, after these elections, if the address changes, they have to pass a certain time limit that will allow their rights to come true, like everyone else, to go to the polls and vote. So, Mr. Markovic, you must accept this amendment in order to remove all these misunderstandings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64710	Mr. Sarovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64711	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 15. The law on a single voter's list reads: "The day following the vote of the municipal, or city administration, which updates the voter list informs citizens that the competent municipal, or city administration, may, no later than five days before the day before the voter list is concluded, request that the voter be registered in the upcoming elections to the country's place of residence. ". The position of the 2nd member shall be such as to provide evidence of the place of residence of voters in the country, with the request laid down in Article 1 of this Article. In other words, the Law on a single polling list allows citizens of Serbia who are not in their place of permanent residence on the day of the election to vote in their place of residence. However, the Law also provides for an obligation to provide proof of residence. So, you can't, based on the words, I don't know what, based on free will, come into any municipality and say – I have a place here, put me on the list. With your proposal to amend and supplement the law, you delete this obligation. The Serbian Radical Party insists that the legal provision remains in the existing law. Why? Because in this way you're actually systematically creating conditions for tomorrow's election theft. With this you create conditions for one voter to be entered in five, ten or 150 municipalities. The only question is how valuable it will be from the election day until five days before the election is held, when the final deadline is that it can declare its wish to vote elsewhere, or in a place where no residence is reported, but in a place where it has a place of residence. You, of course, refused the law of the SRS. The explanation you gave is completely pointless. You say here - the amendment is not accepted. Then you say - the meaning of Article 3. The bill is to allow the voters to vote in a place where they will be held on the day of the elections. This, Mr. Markovic, is not true. The provisions of Article 15(1) allow the voter to vote in the place of residence. You can't by erasing the second attitude to make it possible. By erasing it, you are merely essentially doing it, practically allowing someone to vote outside the place of residence without submitting evidence of the place of residence. That I, sir, am right, and you are not, testifying to even that argument that you gave under the bill. You in the bill, it is, in order to be able to check, on page 3 of the reasons – the explanation of individual solutions in the law, where you say – in the context of a legal solution which makes it easier for voters who are not present at the place of residence on the day of the election to exercise electoral law by means of the bill, to apply for entry into the polling list towards the place of residence in the country without the obligation to submit evidence of their place of residence. That's the point. That's what you said yourself on the basis of the law. So, to allow someone to enter the voter's list, I'm going to quote your argument one more time, without obligation to submit evidence of the country's place of residence on request. This solution is completely insane. This is completely irrational and nothing can be justified except for your desire to make some kind of election theft in the upcoming elections. To see how much this solution is, that is, to see how bad this solution is, how inconsistencies it is and how it is not in accordance with the other laws in force in the Republic of Serbia, I will remind you of the fact that this is contrary to the Law on residence and residence of citizens. I'll also remind you that we've recently debated and passed that law. Unfortunately, the law has been passed, but by law you gave police officers in police administrations the authority to give people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who come to the police administration, to bring in documents and requests to be notified, to want to report residence or residence, you gave the police officer the authority to reject that request, if, according to his assessment, the person who came to report the residence or residence has no intention of permanent settlement or temporary residence. How is it possible, Mr Markovic, that one law stipulates that whoever brings a document issued by a state authority, that a police officer does not admit it, that by law the prescribed document is not sufficient evidence, and in the other law you remove the obligation to bring any evidence, so you say - free statement of will? So, I come to the municipality and I say, put me on the ballot list, and that's enough now. There is no way, Mr. Markovic, to justify this and explain this difference. You say further in your explanation why you do not accept this amendment – the methodology of managing the single voter list will ensure that the submission of any new request for a vote towards the country's place of residence by a single voter at the same time erases his previous application for a vote towards the place of residence. Mr. Markovic, what if there is no single ballot? The law does not provide for that possibility in this article. In the end, you say it will be applied to an existing electoral list. So if there's a single polling list, then that'll be fine. But if there isn't a single ballot, which is at this point, you'll admit, more likely, because if you haven't managed to do it in the past 11 years, I assume you're not going to make it in the next six months. So what if there isn't a single ballot list? What if this methodology of yours, as you say, is necessary to use new information technologies if it doesn't work? You told us a few days ago how many times you didn't know how many times you got the end of that job, that it was supposed to be in May, so they told you, it will be in June, and it will be in September, then in October, then in November. Here, it expires in December, it expires in 2011, and there is no solution. On what grounds do you claim that this job, which you haven't completed in 11 years, will end in the next three or four months? Third thing, Mr. Markovic, on what basis will you and how will you know where someone checked in? You will know from the basis of the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, based on a base that exists in accordance with the Law on residence and residence, and that database is significantly wider than that of the single polling list. You have a home number in the single polling list, you have one parent's name, and you have both parents at the M.P. base, you have both parents' birth numbers, and you have both parents' residence and residence. So you have everything, you have a much wider base. You have to decide whether that base exists or whether that base works or not. If the M.O.P. base works, then we practically have a unique polling list. If the MUP database doesn't work, then we don't have a single polling list. That's the essence of this, Mr. Markovic. So, in order to get to the single polling list, you didn't need tenders, it didn't take you three years, you had to practically just limit yourself and extract the data from the MoU database of the Republic of Serbia that is needed and prescribed by the Single Election List Act. This is how we get into a situation where you don't even know exactly what it is. You wrote one in an explanation why you did not accept the amendment, and the other, contrary to that, you wrote in the light of the bill. You tell us one story when you talk about the Law on the Single Election List, and you tell another story when you talk about the Law on residence and residence of citizens. Then, Mr. Markovic, sit there, pick up that cell phone and you don't think to engage in the debate and explain to the MPs what they're asking you, and all our objections were strictly related to the application of the law. No one has spoken to you personally for a moment. No one has offended you for a moment. I really ask you, on behalf of the citizens, to finally come out and give any explanation for such pointless legal provisions, which you predict will be adopted tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, or Monday by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64712	With this time of authority, you have long taken advantage of a further 10 minutes since the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Bojan Mladenovic, Milan Avramovic, Dusan Maric and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? He has the word Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64713	Of course he does, Mr. Novakovic. The reason I stopped was because I was hoping Mr. Markovic would wake up from that winter dream. The SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 4 and that amendment is in line with the amendments that we have submitted to Article 4. 1st and 2nd. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Single Election List Act. I can repeat for the third time what that argument refers to. So, the view of the SRS is that given the fact that there are 198 units of local self-government in Serbia, that the Republic of Serbia has, as we have said, 63 embassies around the world, that we have seven missions and 23 consular representations, therefore, a total of 93, that it is incomparably a more comprehensive and efficient solution to communicate, on the one hand, that 93 diplomatic and consular representations, and on the other hand that they have one address to address, that this address is the Ministry of State and local self-government, and all to allow voters to exercise their rights in a simpler and more efficient way possible. We also predicted that the voter who directly addresses the country’s city or municipality administration, in that case that the municipal or city administration, according to its place of residence, or residence, should conduct the enrolment in a unique voter list. You have not, unfortunately, succeeded in any rational reason to state why your proposal is better than ours. You keep your mouth shut. On the other hand, this way, as we said, direct communication between 198 municipalities and cities and the 93 Serbian representations in the world, which is a total of 18. 414 ties. We offer a solution that is more effective 198 times, according to which voters will communicate or if they submit a request to the diplomatic and consular representation abroad, according to which these diplomatic and consular representations will communicate exclusively with the Ministry of State Administration, which is, in accordance with the law, the sole authority to run a single electoral list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64714	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64715	Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of this bill, the Government, among other things, says: "If during 2011 and 2012, before the regular elections are called, extraordinary elections for MPs are to be called, it is proposed that the existing electoral lists established before the entry into force of this law, Article 6 are used in these elections." Mr. Minister, this argument would make sense and it would only make sense if there was a limit in the interpretation or bill, that there was a date until which elections would be extraordinary, and after which they would be regular. But we see that date gone. As far as this bill and amendment is concerned, I'd like to ask one question. I ask you to answer what date it is in 2011 or 2012 until which elections will be extraordinary and after which elections will be treated as regular elections? Under the Constitution and the law, parliamentary elections in Serbia must be held no later than 10 May of next year. We hear in public that the ruling majority announces that these elections will be held on Jurdjevdan, 6 May 2012. In light of the government's proposal for the law, Boris Tadic can call the elections on May 6th and declare these elections an early election. We don't have any guarantee it won't happen. What would the ruling majority accomplish like that? It would achieve this if the elections were not voted on by a single voter's list, which would allow the ruling majority to steal, what Mr. Sarovic is constantly rightly potential. In his explanation, the government further says, in an explanation of why there is no single voter list: "As there would be not enough time for the data to be kept in the existing voter lists," etc. etc. I remind you that you came to power on October 5, 2000. More than 10 and a half years have passed since then, and during that time, DOS parties have absolute authority in Serbia. During that time, the government increased the number of employees from eight and a half thousand to 20,000 those in a permanent working relationship and four thousand working under contract. So, for 20-24 thousand people. Why did you hire these people? What does 24,000 people do, if you weren't able to finish one of these easy jobs, like setting up a single polling list?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64716	Thank you. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Radosav Mojsilovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs together Nemanja Sarovic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Bojan Mladenovic, Milan Avramovic, Dusan Maric and Zoran Krasic, together Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilović and Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has, according to the order reported, the first Mr. Predrag Mijatovic, then Mr. Bojan Mladenovic, Mrs. Vjerica Radeta, and Mrs. Zlata Djeric. Here you go, Mr. Miatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64717	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the SNS has suggested that this article 6 be deleted as illogical and contrary to past law. In order for the public to understand what this is about, for those who are following us, I would still read this Article 6, although Mr Maric, in part, quoted him as saying: "Extremely from the position of the first member, if during 2011 and 2012, before the regular elections are called, extraordinary elections for MPs will be held, the existing lists will be used before the entry into force of this law, and according to the rules on which they are established. In the event of a call and regular elections for MPs, this law will apply. From the date of application of this law, from the publication of regular elections for MPs, i.e. until the end of the extraordinary elections under Article 1, municipal, or city administrations, are obliged to lead the electoral lists by the rules on which they are led before the entry into force of this law. "We asked that this member be deleted completely, and why? It says – The Single Election List Act was published on 16 December 2009 and entered into force on 24 December 2009. Article 30 is prescribed, as I read, that its application will start two years after the entry into force, which meant that the unique voter list was drawn up and updated within that deadline. Since 24 December 2011, it can be used for all elections. The passing of the law has been announced as a major achievement of this government and a guarantee of democratic and fair elections. The amendment now delays the application of the law so that it will only apply to regular elections that have to be called in a few months, but that it will not be applied if extraordinary elections are called before, in the remaining few months. As a reason, it was said that it was necessary to allow citizens to enter the list with their residence and residence abroad, which is difficult to accept as convincing and create a reason, because it could have been done much earlier. This was pointed out by MPs who had spoken before. On the other hand, it is difficult to see that this will change significantly in the voter lists by changing the law and delaying application. One of the possible real reasons is that this incompetent government has failed to make a list in two years, although it was still promised several years ago. Another could be an attempt by this authority to make it harder to conduct an emergency election if it is forced to call them. This is a complex issue because amendments to the Single Election List Act puts aside a number of provisions of the electoral laws, which can create problems in the conduct of elections and affect their outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64718	Thank you. The word is Mr. Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64719	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, we have suggested that this member be deleted. We believe that this member of the bill is not good, that he is not in the spirit of democracy, because this article foresees something that certainly should not happen in the Republic of Serbia. In fact, if extraordinary elections for MPs are held during 2011, or in 2012, the existing electoral lists, i.e. the old law, will be used, and if there is a regular election only then a new law, or a single electoral list, will apply. The Serbian Radical Party believes that a single polling list must be used, regardless of whether the elections will be extraordinary, whether the elections will be regular, because this is something that Serbian citizens also need, and that is something that is needed to ensure that elections are fair and correct. It is certain that when there is a single voter list, there is no possibility that one voter, one voter, will vote in two or more municipalities. We want to make it impossible, and that is why we have proposed this amendment. The adoption of this amendment removes that possibility for one voter to vote in two or more municipalities. The question arises whether the Democratic Party at all and whether the government of the Republic of Serbia wants fair elections, whether it wants to protect every vote, whether it wants to protect the voter's will and whether it wants to remove any doubt and the possibility that the voter will vote in more places. I believe the Democratic Party has no sincere intention and the confirmation is in the fact that you have rejected this amendment by the Serbian Radical Party. The adoption of this amendment would lead to only one voter being found in only one polling list and one person being able to vote exclusively in one polling post. In each of the parties' elections, they represent the authorities' leverages, enter the campaign with state money, with state cars, share mass citizens of the Republic of Serbia's detergent, supplies, packages of various kinds and thus buy votes. Besides, they have media control. It seems that all of this is insufficient, so they need additional malversion when it comes to the voter lists because you simply do not want to accept the amendment, you do not want to remove this possibility of malfeasance in the elections, when voting, and thus give confirmation that there is a possibility and that you want to overturn the next election, first of all, of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You've had more than enough time to create, to form a unique polling list. Eleven years and two months have passed since you've been in power. In 11 years and two months in this modern age, the time of computers, modern programs, you could have this unique electoral list and formed, and applied, and applied in the next election, whether these elections are regular or extraordinary. The question arises why you have not set or set a precise date. You could have said that the old law would apply until April 1, and since April 1, a new law would apply. Simply, if it takes you another three months to get this unique voter list fixed, to sort it out, to know why this voter list will not be applied if the elections are extraordinary because the essence is every member and every law to be precisely defined and clear. Perhaps worried that you will fail in the upcoming elections does not allow you to adopt this amendment to the SRS. Advocating and insisting that unless the snap elections are a single voter's list is an effort to create system conditions for electoral theft. You have the possibility that, by adopting amendments to the SRS, you can prevent possible malfeasance and protection of the will of citizens or the will of voters. We want fair elections, we want fair elections. We don't have media and we don't use state cars, we don't use state money, we don't buy votes to sacks, bags, detergents, like other political parties do. Only what we offer Serbian citizens is the SRS programme as should rule, as should rule in local self-government units, as should rule at the level of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we want fair elections, which is why we want a single voter list. We don't believe DS, we've seen voices stolen in the election. We saw and were present when voices were stolen in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, when they were voted from Bodrum and therefore we do not believe the DS. That is why we want a single vote list to be adopted because we can imagine what the elections will look like and what they will do in Serbia if there is no single electoral list, and the best example we saw right here in parliament when it came to even voting from Bodrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64720	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64721	When he spoke about Article 30 in principle of discussion, Milan Markovic, explaining the bill's proposal, said there was a risk of early elections. Of course, it shocked everyone seriously. Imagine the risk of a choice? Whose risk is that? The ruling coalition? Okay, we know that they are in great danger about the next election, but to say publicly, the minister says that there is a risk of early elections is indeed scandalous. He said when he explained Article 30(2)'s position not to God if regular elections were to take place, then this position 2 would apply. So early elections are a risk, and God forbid they happen on a regular basis. It is obvious that the ruling coalition is not going to the polls at all. When they finally decide to discuss the elections and to vote, then, thanks to this law of whose amendments and additions we are talking about today, we will have serious problems with the regularity of the elections. We from the SRS have been arguing back and forth for years, and we also said that in the principle debate, after each election held, we file a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia because we claim that elections cannot be regular and that they cannot be legitimate and legal if there is no single electoral list and if there is no monitoring committee that monitors the elections or pre-election campaign. Milan Markovic argued, firstly, that he would now pass a law on a single polling list, moving reforms to the current state of the political system, etc. And then we got this law on a single polling list that is everything but a single voter's list. In the law whose amendments and additions are considered in particular, there is no envisaged creation of a single electoral list. We can talk about it as much as you want, what this law provides again is just a set of electoral lists per local self-government. That's what my colleagues were talking about when they talked about the amendment to Article 3 and the need to delete that amendment, which is the best confirmation of that Article 3 that you've predicted all the manipulations you're preparing for the next election. Then in Article 30, the minister said before that what is provided for in article 2 of Article 30 that they cannot promise and say – there is every chance that a single voter list will be made until any regular elections are made, but he cannot promise that it will be so. It's really amazing that in two years you haven't made that unique voter list in quotes uniquely as you predicted it might be better for a shade than what we have today. Repeatedly, it is not even close to what really represents a unique voter list. Milan Markovic said it was simple to have been brought long ago, so that this unique voter list would have been made long ago. We claim to you and we spoke and when we spoke two years ago about the law and now in the principle debate, here we are today in the discussion of details. It is simple to do a unique polling list in the era of information systems, it is very simple to make a unique voter list and do not have to question tenders, people are going to the moon and you are complicated to create a unique voter list. So it's very simple to make it and do it to the public first of all we want to draw attention to that with a few moves, a good informer will do it. To connect local self-government with the Ministry of the Interior, any change from the Ministry of the Interior is automatically transferred to local self-government that would have a unique list and very, very simple. You won't do it. The bottom line is that you now need to figure out how to steal the next election with that residence that's going to get me to sign up, so with the possibility that one man should be listed on five electoral lists that you call unique, I don't know how, and it can be recorded on five voter lists. Physically, it's possible to visit five polling stations during the day. The soap can wash the spray that you've introduced and imported, spray everyone knows they can wash with soap and leave no trace. And that's what we talked about when we talked about this law and turned to get a spray that couldn't be erased for at least 24 hours. You didn't do it. What would you do? You don't want fair elections. You want to steal the election, then you need a spray like that. You respond anyway, but the fact that it is your intention and colleagues from the ruling coalition they're responding, I'd really like to cross arguments. All of what we've said so far about each member individually and what I'm about to say about Article 30, say we're wrong. Please state that a member of the 30th or 6th of this law relating to a member of the 30th basic law is a member of the law, and say that this looks like a legal norm. This is, I told the minister when he was here. These are two sentences that could be transmitted in an interview with him, in some newspapers. But to be a legal norm, that's impossible. Here's the public. Exceptionally, from Article 1, in the course of 2011 and 2012, before the ordinary elections are called, extraordinary elections for MPs will be held in these elections, the existing voter lists established before the entry into force of this law will be used, according to the rules on the basis of which they were established in the case of the calling of regular elections for MPs. What were you going to say? Here, first of all, you gentlemen, since there is no minister, and you are lawyers, to remind me that wording must be essential in law, especially it must be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the terminology must be consistent with the Constitution. Have you read somewhere in the Constitution that there is an emergency election? There isn't, there's no such choice at all. Then I don't know what this is about. From the date of application of this law, this is the second position, to the opening of regular elections for MPs, i.e. until the end of the extraordinary elections under Article 1, municipal or city administrations, are obliged to lead the electoral lists according to the rules on which they were led before the entry into force of this law. So, who understands, well done. But here's to the citizens understanding. If early elections are held during an indefinite period, then it will also be done by your recognition and legal recognition without a single voter's list, even if it is the one you plan to make after this tender that you have called to make. If elections take place on the day of May 6, which is the last deadline of the following year, the final deadline under the Constitution and the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliament, then we will have this so-called so-called a unique polling list that we claim isn't a single polling list. The question – if these early elections take place on May 4th, will the so-called A unique list of voters, or will he be gone? If it happens on May 6th, what's the last deadline, then what does that mean? What does that mean when an early election is due? Can anyone explain that to us? Are the regular elections held in the last year of a government or are you now determining – it is a month before that deadline of 12 days, seven months, three months? So this law can't stand. The law has to be precise and to say by which date you guarantee that you have this so-called. A unique voter's list. We keep repeating the so-called because we claim you don't even have a single ballot under this law, or we won't all have one. We're going to have a big risk of how these elections will be held when we don't have a single polling list and we don't have a monitoring board, which is another problem, which you're not going to do. In the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, there is a obligation to set up a Supervisory Board for each election. In proportion to that supervisory board, parties go in proportion to the number of votes won in the previous elections, and you will not do that because when you don't have that supervisory board, then you can do whatever you want in the election campaign. You from the government can perform machines, pave seven meters, 20 meters, strips intersect, cut, etc. Then you can bring yellow bags, as you brought to Ruma. Aleksandar Martinovic had already brought here, so he was taking the contents out of those yellow bags you wore in that election campaign. You can, like these Nikolics and the Wolfs, lead gynecologists to examine women. Water surgeons. I don't know if, God forbid, they operate on villages. They run ophthalmologists, they carry umbrellas, cell phones, plasma televisions, they share them with people. All that can be done. Why? Because you will not finally hold regular elections in Serbia that no one can comment on. You won't, and that's the problem now that you're this law on your nose -- what if someone asked you what this law was changing, what do these changes mean to you? Nothing. You really don't have an answer to that question, and we said that when the minister participated, he spoke in that principle debate, never since I knew him as an MP and as a minister, he was never so confused, because he really didn't know what he was going to say. He came here to defend some kind of bill, which really, no one can defend because what you did, what you're offering us, is not the law. This isn't the law. The third member who's very important is actually forcing you to break the law, to violate the Constitution. This article 30, or Article 6 relating to Article 30, see for yourself, you heard, I just read it, it can't be a legal norm, but something - I'm telling you a story, if it's like this, it'll be like this, if it's not like that, it'll be like this. The point is, therefore, you don't have a single polling list, you're preparing to hold elections without a single voter's list, and we claim that means another election theft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64722	14 minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't think we've had any worse procedures. You have seen for yourself that the SRS has submitted amendments to everything but one member. You have seen that no one from the ruling coalition, whether a minister or any of the MPs, has offered in today's debate any single counter argument, or at least, an argument in favor of what you have proposed in the law, in the draft law on amendments and additions to the Single Election List Act. Unfortunately, it can be expected that this voting machine you have, regardless of what you have no arguments, that you will be led again by that exchange, that 126 people with these voting cards will be able to do anything and that the one who has 126 people for themselves, 126 votes, not the one with real and irrational arguments that all citizens of Serbia understand. The solution that you have provided for a member of this 6th law, I will try to challenge and I am convinced that I will succeed once again on the logical side. In fact, you have provided for Article 6 that it is practically delaying the formation of a single electoral list and you say that, exclusively from the obligation prescribed by the law that there must be a single electoral list, it says - especially if during 2011, or in 2012, before calling regular ones, extraordinary lists will be written, then existing lists will be used, otherwise the law will be applied. Dates should first and foremost be considered. Mr. Markovic, as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, previously when we discussed in principle and when we asked the question - until what time will be the snap elections, and from what time will be the regular elections? He turned to the chairman, or assistant secretary, took the Constitution, read some provisions, answered the word, and gave us an interpretation. He then said that, according to his interpretation, the regular elections are those held from 90 days to maintenance, respectively, compared to the previous period, which is 11 May, when previous elections were held. A 90-day period compared to 11 May, it was the day the previous elections were held, three months, it was some 11 February. Right, that's what we agree on? If we now take into account the legal provisions that the minimum must be 45 days from the election day to the election day, this means that the snap elections, practically, would have to be called before the New Year's Eve, or another 45 days back from February 11th, and in the back 45 days. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is December 21st. This law, i.e. a proposal on amendments and amendments to the law, will be voted on Monday 26 December. If, God forbid, even the law is passed, and if even this amendment is adopted, and as far as I can see, it is adopted, that the law does not enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger, but that the next day takes effect, that means that the earliest date when this law can enter into force is December 27th. If it enters into force on December 27th, you may have two days until December 29th to call the elections, so that they will be held before that February 11th. What does that mean? This means that you are practically making a historical provision, because as soon as the exception is a historical provision, it is called in legal science, which will only be applied once. At the same time, by simply calculating the number of days remaining until the elections, I have shown you that the period of validity of this historic provision may be two days, from December 27th to December 29th. On December 29th, if Boris Tadic calls the elections, they cannot be held before February 11th, which means that according to the interpretation of the state administration and local self-government, Minister Markovic, all elections held after February 11th and regular elections. If these are regular elections, then we're going back to what the SRS is looking for, which is that you have to have a unique voter list. If you need a unique electoral list, then why are you even harassing the MPs, the National Assembly, and what are we even discussing? Why are we delaying the application of this law in just two days? Was that necessary? Can any positive consequences of this arise? In your reasoning of the law you wrote, that is, in this where you explained why the law is passed by emergency procedure, you said that there is some danger for the work of the authorities and organisations in Serbia, so you must, in order to do so, take an emergency procedure, out of the ordinary procedure, to pass this law. Then I asked, and I asked once again, and Mrs. Kolundzija, unlike the minister, listened carefully, and I would really appreciate it if you could answer – what are the possible consequences, possible adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations in Serbia? What are the possible adverse consequences? The only harmful consequence is if we don't have a single polling list, then there may be harmful consequences. There is no adverse consequence of looking at the fact that we will have 198 local self-governments in Serbia, 198 voter lists, and that a large number of people will still be able to be registered twice, which will be recorded by people with no home number, which will be recorded by a large number of dead people and who knows what other irregularities exist. I would remind you that the minister himself said in an explanation that nine million full-aged citizens are being led in Serbia and that we have six, seven million people on the voter list. So two, three million people hang. That's practically 25% and that's one-quarter of the voter list. Then you're putting us back in a position to discuss whether the voter list is needed or not. Or we'll have him for this election or we won't have him. Two, three million people don't know where they are, doesn't know whether they died or didn't die, whether they were enrolled in multiple places, whether they were enrolled multiple times. That's the point. Mr. Markovic is out now, and he won't answer us. I don't know who's writing you these laws. Some laws directly showed that it was the result of the bad provisions you are proposing, that it is obvious, in my opinion, that it was because it was translated from some foreign languages, so you literally translated the meaning that makes different sense in Serbian and then you got into these problems. Who's a genius, and I asked you this last time, did Mr. Balinian perhaps have a second time? Is he the one who wrote this bill? Who is it? Is Mirko Cvetkovic who signed the government's opinion on the amendments? Is Minister Markovic, who is a resolute minister who refuses to communicate with the MPs on this subject? Who is the creator of these brilliant proposals for amending and supplementing the law? How is it possible and how can you not ask yourself if you have no single argument that you will be able to vote when the day of the vote comes, Monday, to vote for this law? We also heard that one offer, an offer that was accepted for the production of this unique ballot, was six million dinars. The second offer was over a hundred million dinars. Maybe there's a reason, and I really don't know. But maybe this is all some kind of farce, as you would say -- this offer is not good, it's not done, let's now accept that offer that's 20 times the one we had. I really don't know what your goal is? What Minister Markovic did not answer is this – why did it take you seven months to call a tender? Why didn't you do it within 15 days of the law? Then you would have six or seven months more if you were working on applying this and forming a single ballot. You'd have six months more to try these modern technologies, as you say here and repeat it five times. What if something more concrete had to be done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? They're sending people to the moon, and you're not able to form a unique voter list. That's what you had to tell the citizens who chose you, who are and what your abilities are. So what you suggested really doesn't make any sense. I am confident and I think it is quite certain that Boris Tadic will not call the election by the New Year's Eve. If he doesn't sign them, then this is pointless and this law is unnecessary. So get serious. If you're not planning to call the election in the next week, give up this bill. If that's your plan, then I don't know why you're waiting for Monday as voting day? You could have gathered together, made a little effort, and instead of following that practice to open up and vote and open a new session, if it's a law of so much importance and so much urgency, then you had to get together before. It is totally unacceptable and the humiliation of parliament is that you send the law by emergency procedure, that we have a day or two to discuss it and to submit amendments, to provide that the law enters into force the day after the publication in the "Official List" and that we wait, today is Wednesday, when the debate will be concluded in particular, and you will only five days later vote on this law. What does that mean? This means that you could, not making any calculations regarding the calendar and the number of days to pass, you could have scheduled the vote today and filled out that constitutional form that says the laws take effect on the eighth day of publication in the Official Journal. Only exceptionally, if there are exceptional circumstances, if war is at stake, about natural disasters, about some harmful consequences that cannot be prevented, it is the only exception that provides for the Constitution. Can someone here tell us what the consequences that you couldn't have predicted in advance happen if the law didn't come into force earlier than what the Constitution provides as a general rule? Of course it's not there. You could've done calm souls like that. You knew when law enforcement started, it started December 24th, and you could have let this law go into practice two months ago. The last question is logical: If, on 24 December 2011, and we heard it five times from the Minister's mouth, and even if he didn't say so, that's the fact, the deadline set by this law is starting to apply, you can't pass a new law before December 27th, or at the earliest you can, December 26th, and if it is published on the same day, it will be 27th. You on December 27th delay the application of a law that has started to apply since 24. How is that possible? So, first, you will apply the law for two or three days, from 24 to 27, and then from 27, as if nothing had happened, you delete it with a rubber and say that the law is now not applicable, and as long as it will not be applied, well, it will not apply again for the next two days, because if elections are not called by December 29, then it will again expire that minimum period of 45 days after which, according to Mr Markovic's claim, they will become regular. Here, she finally agrees with me and Mrs. Comic. Why, gentlemen dear of the ruling coalition, are you passing this law? That's the ultimate question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64724	14 minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a National MP Zlata Djeric, who submitted the amendment to Article 6. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President, the Honored Citizens of Serbia, the NS MP group tabled an amendment to Article 6 which, as far as I can see, is in the same text as the previous amendments. So Article 6 relating to a member of the 30th law is required to be deleted. In fact, the manipulation of the electoral list is evident or the need to manipulate it has long been present in Serbia's political life, and what the minister said in his explanation, that a voter list of these amendments and additions to the law must be arranged, precisely because there are a huge number of voters who are somewhere outside the list or are problematic or, as it is said in the jargon -- more. So if we have such capital and such a possibility of manipulation, then we understand why the law we passed two years ago must now, before the elections themselves, be corrected by these seven members, of which we have seen this Article 6 as one of the strongest in these amendments and additions to the basic law. As soon as we have seen in these two proposed positions which the legislator proposes to amend the law, the first word – in Article 30, item 2 and item 3 is added, which reads as follows: "Extremely from the position of the 1st member", etc., when you have something that is exceptional, which is excluded, then it breaks the rule and then the rule no longer exists. Therefore, an exception is required, a prolongation is required by law of the prescribed time limit in case the snap elections are called for in 2011 or 2012. If the ministry has failed to arrange the voter list for these two years to be a real state and real number of existing voters in Serbia, then I doubt it will be done in this short period of time, with the best will and even with the best information technology. He just doesn't want to do it and he doesn't need to do it. The voter list is very important in Serbia because elections are a matter of democratic will for citizens. The elections are a question, of course, for the next four years of citizens' lives and since these four years the government has treated all the resources of citizens, politics and the state, I think that these elections will not only be a question of who will rule Serbia, that the citizens of this election they have seen before us are a question of life and death. They have taken them very seriously and are waiting for them very seriously and responsibly. That is why we have these seven members before us who, we fear, are more clouded by the basic law and leave little opportunity for voters to spill a little differently from the real will of citizens. That's what we've all been telling you in the debate so far. We think that the Minister indeed on these amendments that have been tabled, thank you for adopting one of our amendments, but we believe that this amendment that we have all submitted in the same text and where we have all pointed out the same things, is indeed an amendment that makes the whole law somewhat worthless and pointless and leaves the possibility of certainly one serious abuse if this proposed Article 6 is incorporated into Article 30 of the basic law. So, we expect, what I said and in the principle debate, that on the day when elections are held, regular or extraordinary, and they are there, it is a very short matter of time, citizens really know that they are the ones who chose their fate over the next four years. It's never been as important to them in the last 20 years as this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64726	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandar Martinović, Bojan Mladenovic, Milan Avramović, Dusan Maric and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in line with what we have discussed so far, the SRS has submitted an amendment respecting that constitutional provision that says the law is in effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". Unfortunately, even this amendment was not accepted by the ruling coalition and the minister. To make things even weirder, look at the explanation, he says, "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the adoption of Amendment 2 provides for the entry into force of this law the next day of publication." There's no reason for this to stand. We do not accept it because we have proposed something else, but in the light of why the amendment is not accepted should stand for why it is a solution that you have accepted better than the solutions proposed by the amendment, of course, provided that this argument is even envisaged, that such an argument exists. We've shown you many times today that those people who write this, not that they're not legal professionals, but that they didn't even pass the law school. In addition to that, he's saying what you predicted. Look what your proposal is. In your proposal, you say, "This law goes into effect on the day of publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia." What legal genius wrote this? So far in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia there is a constitutional solution, a general rule that the law enters into force eight days after the day of publication, there is the possibility of entering the day after publication, and then you try to introduce a legal system and a third solution by which the law can take effect on the day of publication, but then you enter into a problem. If the official messenger is announced at 11 p.m., will the law enter into force and will it enter into force from the early hours of the morning, from noon, from midnight, from which moment? Of course, the entry into force of the day of publication is not possible and it is clear to everyone, even to people who are legal analphabets, but the question is how is possible in a regulated country, perhaps in that answer, perhaps these are European standards. You claim to respect European standards. Serbia has passed 700 European laws so far and the more we respect these European standards, the worse we are. This could not have happened even five years ago, ten years ago, without mentioning those golden times when the SRS was in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Remember Mrs. Kolundji, but from another perspective because you weren't even in the DS. But now I'm really asking a serious question: how is it possible for me to say that this kind of nonsense is not noticed by anyone that the Legislative Committee has passed? I suppose the minister also read the law, so the law passed the government, and only when we pointed out by amendment that there was a problem, only later a member of the ruling coalition, because the MP submits an amendment, so change this. This once again speaks of the indifference with which you approach these important state affairs and then wonder why Serbia is not progressing. Here, I will, like Mr. Krasic, leave you for these few seconds, so that you have more time to hurry and strive towards the EU which, of course, we will never enter.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64728	Together, it's a matter of seconds, MP, and we'll get there together. The 7th amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted an amendment with a correction. The amendment is under review because the Legislative Committee has not spoken. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. We have completed our review of the amendments, and I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. The National Assembly will decide in voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank my associates and Minister Milan Markovic. We move to search in the details of item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF KINEMATOGRAPHY According to Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, on the search in detail of the 2nd item of the agenda: The proposal for a law on cinematography, in addition to the representative of Predrag Marković, the Minister of Culture of Information and Information Society, called for meetings of the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society, Tatjana Vojić Jurić, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society, Predrag Blagojević, senior adviser at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society, Tatjana Vojić Jurić, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society, and Vladimir Nedeljković, adviser at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society. Second item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on cinematography. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Nikola Žutić, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Borisa Pelević, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rosavić, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šormaz, Simo Vuković, Lidija Vukićić, Đorđe Milić, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić, Zlata Đerić, Srdjan Spasović, Radenković, Radiša Ilic, Dusan Marić, Dusan Marić, Dusan Žarić and Bodan Žaljanažić, Radarić and Bočić. You have received the Report of the Committee on Culture and Information and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Amendment to Article 2 of the draft law. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64729	Dear MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the very title of the bill. According to this title, you don't know whose law this is, what country, what people. Maybe this is the law of the EU that has made it this way, as is an analytical, globalistly simple and prescribing it. I suggested that the bill be called: a bill on Serbian cinematography, because the current name does not determine the national and state membership of cinematography. The addition calls it "Serbian" territorial, and the nationality of cinematography, which determines that it is cinematography of the Serbian people within the borders and beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with the name of the law, I suggested that the term "cinematography" be replaced by "Serbian", as well as "domestic" in the term "domestic". The government has explained that this amendment is not accepted for reasons because it is not possible to determine the territorial and nationality of membership, the work that is regulated by law. In my opinion, the government could at least add to the title the words of Republika Srpska so it could be called – the Law on Cinematography of Republika Srpska, such as the Republic of Montenegro, for example, and its law is called – the Law on Cinematography of the Republic of Montenegro. It seems that the words "Serbian", "Serbian", are anathetized in this bill. So this law, which is just written in an international spirit before us, in the spirit of protecting the existing anti-Serbian production that has become a normal phenomenon in the state of Serbia. The saddest thing is that the state of Serbia is not protecting its national survival, which is among other things threatened by anti-state film production. It is enough to mention that all of the directors and actors worked on this bill by giving their suggestions and suggestions. As far as I could find out from the media in the formation of this law, Director Goran Markovic, Miki Manojlovic and others participated. The amendments can't help repairing this law. I already said that in the principle debate. I did make a few amendments after all. My amendments, as I have already said, refer to cinematography which, among other things, should protect the historical, national and cultural interests of the Serbian people. A long time ago, a Serbian national film, only in those bandages before 1918, was made national Serbian films. It's the first movie about Karajord, then, the movie on King Peter's coronation, etc. Since the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, this national castle has disappeared. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia cinematography was in the service of celebrating the ideology of liberalism, European modernisation processes, liberal Yugoslavism, everything was subject to that goal. So the Western patterns have been copied. At the time of the occupation, only the movie about the acrobat Alexic is recorded, so there are no national messages, and in that time it was not possible to highlight Serbia and Serbs, since we know what occupation Serbia was in then. With communists coming to power in 1945, the Sovietisation of Serbian and Yugoslav films begins. I talked about it in more detail in the principle debate. Then Broz's communist regime paid great attention and care to the development of the film industry due to the implementation of the "red winners" class propaganda, with strong censorship, so films that celebrated the fight against fascism, in which the main opponents were fascists in the face of the Chetniks, as they were said in the propaganda at the time. So the films were strictly directed towards the Glorification of Partisan NOB, with only one side of the anti-fascist struggle – Partisan, while members of the Yugoslav army in the country, though anni-fascists, were represented as occupiers and fascists. I wonder if even one Serbian government will finance a film about the Yugoslav Army in the country. Surely they will never, even though the equal struggle and Draža Mihajlovic are rehabilitated by the Republika Srpska Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64730	National MP, please, the subject of neither the law nor the amendment you have submitted is neither aesthetic nor the ethical value of cinematography nor of anyone, nor of the Republic of Serbia. Either about the amendment, or somehow to link your aesthetic housing to the films and amendments you have submitted, or to the law that no member is involved in, or aesthetics, or the ethics of film makers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64731	I'm just saying that throughout history, the film industry has been that way, away from that national one. Now I get to the time of the '90s when that turning point seems to be. The turning point represents the film Kosovo Battle that was making...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64732	People's MP, I interrupted you, to remind you that you are under obligation to speak of the agenda. There is no aesthetics and ethics of film makers on the agenda. On the agenda is the proposal of the Cinema Act with a clear legal framework in which it intends to regulate the area without any member entering film creation, because it is simply not allowed and allowed. Well, please on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64733	It is you who do not allow me to speak of history because I have been denied this amendment and Mr. Minister has just denied this freedom to finally be called one law by his real amended law to bear the name of the Cinematography Act. Serbian cinematography or at least the Law on Cinematography of the Republic of Serbia. So, to precisely determine the title of this law itself, as some countries have done in the environment, for example, the Republic of Montenegro in Montenegro is called the Law on Cinematography of the Republic of Montenegro, but since you do not allow me to finish, this is how I will break up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64734	Five minutes used by the MP's group. Please do not deceive the public, I am obliged to react if the MP insists that he violates the rules of the Rules of Procedure. And you, like me, well know that the obligation to respect a member of 106 is the same for you as for the rest of us 249 MPs. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64735	Mr. Minister, Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian Radicals believe that this law, as the amendment reads by Mr. Nikola Žutic, should be called the Law on Serbian Cinematography, I will through illustration and through some concrete examples why it is necessary to preserve the authenticity of Serbian film and because of the law should be called. Let me compare it to some other peoples and some other countries where it was done in the same way. Is that exactly what the French Cinematography Act is now called in France? I suppose he has that in his name, but certainly Mr. Markovic, you'll never say when you talk about a famous French film, you'll say it's the ultimate work of French cinematography, as you'll say the Russian or some others who have celebrated themselves and who won awards at numerous festivals and prestigious awards were won by their directors, actors, etc. Now there's really a question here what your authentic intention was. Our intention is to finally after that black weather FNRJ, SFRJ, so all that's been going on, especially for the last ten years, some hyper-urban, newly created values that are being promoted as a retailer, if I can afford to judge it like that, as one ordinary viewer or someone who's been following Serbian cinema since small, but also another world. It should be done here though, Mr. Markovic, since you're a man too, very much in publishing and literature, that kind of partnership. Why do we say Serbian literature? Because she's really authentic because she is Serbian. If we say Serbian cinema, then it's something that is and should be authentic Serbian. That's why the law should be called that, because then we come into a situation where we collect the legacy, first in Broz's communist time, that time of black film, then Bulajic, as represented heroes from the war, Chetniks of General Draž Mihajlovic. You know that filtered democracy and we talk about that time later. Some avant-gardists in the area of former Bosnia and Herzegovina, some friends of Sarajevo, told me that even Branko Mikulic himself knew how to call on the phone, so when he heard that such a project was being prepared or not to mention one movie that won the prestigious Canadian award. Then this one called and asked what was going on, you know, because he was so instructed by that brozomania, as it would bring down constitutional order, brotherhood and unity, etc. Then why can't we, Mr. Markovic, call it the law and be proud of it and then we'll be respected more by those who practice film art in the world. Maybe our artists would have a bigger pass. They can't have it now because there's no such great deeds. Because if you look back, now that I'm not getting into it, I have some statistics here, the question is how accurate is how much Serbian film in the 20th century has achieved its production, Serbian cinematography to better express myself or cinematography in Serbia. It's not something we can brag about, but it's really a question of whether these people who do it and who write the script, are beggars with a feather in their hand. I think so. For what? Well, because many of them are waiting for it authentically to give them encouragement and wings and the possibility of them making movies about our greats. Because when you look, that's why the law is supposed to be called and that's why this argument is ours. We are everything to mark Serbian cinematography, cinematography in Serbia, you call it different, throw it out, and it does not exist in Serbian film. There's no heroism, there's no lady's fancy after all, here's what I'm saying as a member of a gentler sex. There are no monastery and court ambiences. There is no medieval Serbia. There is no national spirit that we need to raise future generations and tell them. That when it comes to Europeanism and these goals, so people have had it through centuries and I guess not some Kacin, File or I don't know what they're called, these deputy commanders of Tadic and this regime, are going to learn about it. And then, if the law on Serbian cinema were to be called that, then people would be encouraged to record works on Serbian giants, on the despot Stefan Lazarevic, or on a middle-class family or on a family in the country, or on a family at a time when people were left with nothing, from a time after the war, etc. Not to put myself in the role of film or serial critics, because I really didn't, but as an ordinary citizen, so here I'm not even speaking as a politician because I'm a Serbian nationalist, a member of a patriotic national party, I can't accept that the time currently playing with some past time through the screening or recording of something, and now there's one series going on, I'm not going to say any day, where everything that was shown, up until a few years ago, is now looking from another angle, and yet it's being satanized by Serbs. That's not right, Mr. Markovic. It's not right, and that's why it takes a law to be called Serbian cinema, to do what others have done, to present themselves as such, and sooner or later they have managed to impose themselves in the world and say, "We are that, that's our nation." Then I really don't understand this argument that you have given for the rejection of the amendment of my colleague, Žutić, because it is not possible to determine the territorial and nationality of the action that is governed by the law. How can it not be arranged territorially? We're in Serbia's space, right? You were, I think, 15 days ago, talking about it in a principle debate, on the days of a Serbian movie in Moscow. Then why wouldn't the law be called about Serbian cinematography? Why don't we have a Serbian film festival, that's what I said in the principle debate, what was our celebrated director Emir Kusturica for? I would go back to what is yours, and as the topic nears, Serbian literature, compare now, Mr Markovic, other nations and peoples, where they don't mind having a territorial and national mark, how many films they made in the greats of their history, and thus boasting, won numerous awards, Oscars, etc., and we don't. Just look at it and you'll see that people here are unmotivated to do it. Or those who feel that way, who are close, by national identity, want to define themselves, close ideas and what we stand for, we will not be under someone else's yoke, we will not be in the EU, we will not be told by those who bombed Serbia, the villains of the NATO Pact and their Hollywood promoters what is good for our people. But look and you'll see how miserable and miserable it is that the greats of Serbian history have not been filmed, and all of this could be done, that is, these people would be motivated even though production is weak because there is no money, that it is otherwise called this law and that it is precisely nationally marked. Should we be ashamed that we are Serbs and for this propaganda, he mentioned fellow Maric the other day, and it was spinning on all the media, this Angelina Jola, and how she satanicizes Serbs, and in this film, Rade Sherbedzija plays... (President: People's Parliament, I beg you on the subject of the agenda, not the aesthetics and ethics of the filmmakers. We guarantee the freedom of creation. Finishing or not, it doesn't matter what part of your exposure you're in violation of the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to remind you that the subject of the agenda is the amendments you have submitted, and certainly not the ethics and aesthetics of film makers in Serbia, in the region and beyond. ) I don't know, Mrs. Comic, I know that you know Serbian civilization, but I don't know that, like some people I can't mention here and now to talk about, film makers, there's no such strange and new minority civilization, because I guess you should know who we are. We are in the House of the National Assembly, and if I advocate, as well as my colleague Žutic and as a member of the SRS, that a law is called Serbian, I don't know what's wrong with that? And my argument, like it or not, is that I can be more critical now of those who truly deal with the film, but I, as someone who represents the people and that part of our people, members of the seventh art, can give that argument. So, as Serbian literature is called, and as many laws should have been called by this real Serbian name, and this law and amendment by Mr. Žutić, you should have accepted, Mr. Markovic, because I really think it would be a piece of hope in the recovery of the Serbian film, so that everything would not be reduced to being just enthusiasts, as I already mentioned one of them, who intends to make a film by the novel "On the Drina Cupria", our Nobel-born Andric, Emir Kusturica. Some other people had the idea to promote Serbian national creation and what we are as a people through the centuries. I think you need to accept this amendment to Mr. Žutić. Otherwise, the law as a law is all kind of a dry spell. That's what Mr. Marko Milenkovic was talking about the other day, who is also a man in the field of art, but musically, but he allowed himself, as I am then, to underline it, to notice that we live in some time-consuming or in some new time, when it's good by those who write laws and these governments, it's also the president of the state, to promote everything that is other than that, and the national something new, as you like to say it, I say "majority," and that has nothing to do with authenticity and what it is, the Serbian people, our culture, our literature, and so our film. That is why the law should be called the law on Serbian cinematography. Thank you for your attention, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64736	It was used 12 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Lidija Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64737	Dear and esteemed citizens who listen to the debate today on the proposal for a law on cinematography, Mr. Minister, I wanted to be an MP for the SRS, but also as an actor to discuss a little bit of this bill. Unfortunately, I couldn't attend a debate that was held a few days ago for justifiable reasons, but it didn't stop me from hearing the debate that was being held in this room. In any case, the proposal for a law on cinematography has been made, made with amendments that have been accepted or not, but I agree that any law makes it possible for artists to move more easily and conveniently, respecting the law that is before us or the law that has entered into force. What I can't tell you now is that I'm going to make a digression now, so I'm going to say since I've been in contact with Mr. Director of the Arteljanović Museum and Director of the Yugoslav Cinematheque, Radoslav Zelenović, I've come to know that you've already talked to them on the next topic I'm going to talk about, so it's so much easier and easier for me. I'm really flattered that what I've noticed in the law is missing, that you've already warned things and that this will be respected in the form of one of these points of the law. Of course, I can boast that as an actress, I've made a lot of films, maybe about 20, which is a really lot for an acting career, so I'd like to talk about cinema, too. The Yugoslav Cinematheque, which still works well today under that name. Our Yugoslav Cinematheque, and perhaps citizens are not aware of how much one of the most significant cultural institutions in Serbia is, because our cinema can be classified and classified by the number of copies in Europe. It's a great wealth of one country. Why did we come up with such epithets that we can give to the cinema and that we can talk in superlative about everything she owns? Because people who have been at the top places and who have been running our Yugoslav cinema for years have been collecting copies of films that have been made, so let's say some world films are important and significant in our Yugoslav cinema, for example. They don't exist in Germany, so the Germans used to borrow from us some films, etc. That's really nice and commendable. In addition to what's the point, what I'd talk about, which is...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64738	People's MPs, I listen very carefully to you and I am pleased that you will share with us your knowledge of the work of such a significant institution, but it is my duty to remind you of Article 106, the amendment by which you take part in the debate is that the bill is called a bill on Serbian cinematography. Either you bring together Yugoslav cinema, Serbian cinema, or I'll have to interrupt you one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64739	Now, if I were to get in touch, I'm talking about the Yugoslav Cinematheque, that all the movies that are made in Serbia, if they were producers, so Serbian films, producers would be obliged to give copies, one copy to give to the Yugoslav Cinematheque or how to call it Serbian, it doesn't matter, but to be their obligation, to prevent the depletion of that treasure we have. If together it may be one celluloid film tape, which we know costs five thousand dollars, and the distributors of Serbian say – we have collected barely money and we can make a film, let alone give it to the cinematist, it can then be delivered in another format to a cinematheque, in the form of a hard drive, in the form of an electronic copy, but that the cinema has to have a copy of the Serbian film, that is to be the obligation of distributors and producers, in order to preserve that treasure that we have in the cinema. Since the Serbian or Yugoslav cinema is mentioned only a little, by the way in Article 12, you've already thought about it, you've already talked to members 23, 48, 59, 61, 77, 96 and 98, you're familiar with those members, we could solve this problem. Thank you. I think this move would really preserve our Serbian treasure in form and film and everything called the treasure of Serbian or Yugoslav, Mrs. Comic, cinematheques.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64740	Five minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Minister Predrag Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64741	Thank you. Just so no one gets confused. This matter has already been solved by another law, and there was a question, you mean, that's what people were talking about when they were preparing the law, whether in the law of cinematography, it's quite clear why it's called that, and if it's necessary, I can explain it one more time. It is precisely for the protection of both Serbian cinematography and the overall cultural heritage that we preserve. But there was a question – whether, in relation to technological development and accurate terminology, which is in relation to the Law on Cultural Goods, where the issue of Yugoslav Cinematheques and obligations towards it has been resolved in one way, whether to extend, repeat and place it in the Law on Cinematography. This would solve a termological problem related to a whole series of new techniques, but on the other hand, this part of the obligation would be deleted from the law in which it is now. It was therefore necessary to carry out consultations. I thank everyone for helping. The most natural thing is that in these situations, you have to ask the person who's concerned. So we said in the end, well, be kind and say, you who care about it and who are obliged on behalf of the Republic of Serbia to worry about it further, where it would be better for you, where the people who are in that obligation will be easier and faster to be aware of these obligations. Cinematheque said – in the Law on Cinematography. In relation to this, several members have now elaborated on what has been resolved by the Law on Cultural Goods, Harmonised Terminology and thus fully defined this problem for the future. Thank you, everyone who cared about it. Thank you to the MPs who helped these few amendments to that effect be submitted. They're accepted. And of course, in those final provisions, certain members who existed are put out of force. So, for no time at all, that's all I'm saying, don't worry, no moment has this commitment been compromised. Here's just a question of how to do something better. It's a pleasure we've all agreed on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64742	National MP Natasa Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64743	Mr Markovicu, I want to react because in the explanation given by the government for not accepting the amendments of our celebrated actress and colleague Lidija Vukicevic, there is one piece of information that is a complete deception for us MPs, as well as for the whole public. Namely, she reasoned on why she submitted the amendment and why she added the words "preservation and protection" after saying "population". You gave her a reason not to accept the amendment because the amendment of MP Sima Vukovic was accepted to the same provision. First of all, they are not identical to the amendments of Lidija Vukicevic and Sima Vukovic at all, because he added words in that position Article 3: "As well as the collection, restoration and preservation" and she had a second tendency, i.e. she wanted, as she said in her own explanation to correct your law, and her work and everything she talked about with her colleagues and with the people mentioned who did not have the opportunity to participate in the draft law. This really doesn't make sense. In order for the public to know what this is about, and then to make that difference or someone's intention, Lidija Vukicevic is a well-known Serbian actress and has a number of film works and achievements that show up today, because they replicate who knows how many times. Simo Vukovic is an MP of the ruling party, member of the G17, if you belong to her or are already someone who is neutral, we do not know that, but he is a doctor by profession. I don't really know what his specialty is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64744	People's MPs, please bring your exposure to the amendment under review.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64745	I'm putting in touch with the motion that he doesn't accept an amendment that's much better.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64746	People's MPs, but are currently in search of amendments submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. So either bring your exposure to that amendment or I'll have to warn you again to take care of the respect of Article 106. There is a debate in particular to discuss once in a single amendment with the time of the parliamentary group available for further arguments, but we must stick to the order of amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64747	It doesn't matter because we have all the time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64748	People's MPs, it's very important. Please listen to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64749	I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64750	Of course, if you have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64751	We still have an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64752	You don't have another hour. I'm taking care of the weather, so I'm asking you to listen to your remarks. Thank you. You'll be in touch when the amendment is searched. Once again, a search in particular exists for the subject of the search to be an amendment per amendment. The additional time in the debate in particular serves to ensure that any MP who is the applicant of the amendment has additional time, except for two minutes, to explain, explain and speak in favour of his amendment, or to explain and explain the refusal of any other amendment. We need to talk about an amendment that's on the agenda. Please do not abuse the subject or other people in an attempt to, without reminding you that you do not have the right to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64753	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs are a very strange member of 1st, who should essentially define the purpose and purpose of the Cinematography Act. I think we've brought dozens, hundreds of laws in these few years behind us, and here's the end of this mandate. I don't think there was any definition in any law that emphasizes that this law protects the general interest. I guess this is all we've been doing these three years has been for the sole purpose of general interest. If a personal interest was recognized somewhere, and that personal interest was subordinated to the general interest, and I believe that the Serbian Progressive Party and myself personally that this formulation in Article 1 is completely unclear and unnecessary. Article 1 states – establishes the general interest and way of achieving general interests when it comes to cinematography. This Article 1 should simply be rephraseed and that is the proposal of the Serbian Progressive Party. So to know what the purpose and purpose of this law is, and the purpose and purpose is clear to us. This law regulates production, transport, public screening of films as well as other issues relevant to the performance of cinematographic work. So, clearly not to mention the general interest, and we have a series of amendments in which we insisted that the Ministry of Culture has an overly broad interest and that it is in fact that this law falls under general interest. We'll have opportunities, first of all, when it comes to Article 10, to talk about what the general interest is, what is the personal interest and to divide it a little more clearly in this law. So we think that our proposal for a different formulation of Article 1 stands completely and that what has been given here by the ministry in some way, I would say, even pretentiously and needlessly and something is meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64754	Anyone else want a word? On Article 2 and all the members mentioning the words "production" and "distribution" the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64755	Just for a little while, I'm not gonna pick up the next amendment. We simply wanted to create a technical editorial of the text where some concepts that are more appropriate and more suitable in Serbian should be used for us, so where the "production" is to be "production", where "distribution" is to be "transport". We've intervened in a few amendments in that sense. It's not accepted, but I don't think they change the essence of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64756	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee of Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The amendment is under review because the Legislative Committee has not spoken. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Vukicevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Lidija Vukicevic wants a word. Please sign up so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64757	It was a mistake, actually. I wanted to talk about this because we came to the debate to get back to Serbian, not Serbian, I actually wanted to talk about the cinema and what I said, so I wouldn't repeat myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64758	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not on Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 and all the members mentioned in the word "producer" the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. National MP Zlata Djeric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64759	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, led by the same desire and drive that the MPs of the SNS Group were also taking charge of, in any case, that the law be brought into line with the norms of our language, we suggested that the word "production" be replaced by "production". The same would apply to the word "distribution", since the Serbian language already has its own words for it, regardless of how we explained the change's refusal minister, we were given the reason that these are the usual terms that were generally accepted. In Article 8. The proposal for a law is stated – production activity, distribution of public representation. So you're already replacing the term "production" with "production." He exists. The term "production" is also generally accepted by our term and the law needs to be cleaned from all possible aliens, if possible, and here it is possible. The law would lose nothing of its importance and weight. I think he's gonna lose more of this, no matter what it's generally accepted, so I'm just gonna do a little digression. Mr. Minister, you'll agree, there's a lot that's generally accepted in language, but it's not allowed to be used. For example, we all know one syntagma that replaces numerous adjectives and numerous contributions, the custom provisions, numerous attributes and reads, very often we hear "the top of the brother". We can't put it anywhere in the law just because it's generally accepted, modern and really common in use. That's all I wanted. It would be really good if you replaced, because the law wouldn't lose much, the word "production" in the word "production." The word "sale" as an Anglo-Saxon is already a term that, like many now modern terms, when we talk about heights, when we talk about glamour, about glamourism, when we talk about something "lakish". You know, you have that joke too, says two people get married over Facebook and say, "Do you change your status?" Yeah. Does a woman change her status? Yes, she does. Do the godmothers "leek" a new status. So we've already come to a very funny situation. I really think that the term "production" here can also stand in the full sense of the word, and that the law actually keeps its basic meaning and preserves, above all, our language, and that is our obligation here to take care of it, because we are the most legislative body. Don't forget, language is a man's first homeland.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64760	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Pursuant to Article 156(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64761	New Serbia's parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 7 demanding that it be deleted, as these members are scheduled to give incentives from the Republic of Serbia's budget to foreign producers who film cinematographic works on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that at this point, the Republic of Serbia is not economically strong enough to provide for expenditure on this basis in its budget. We're afraid this is an imitation of projects like "Fiat", "Jura" and similar to them, only in the sphere of culture. We're afraid this would be another basis for the irrational spending of taxpayers' money. Given that we know that foreign production is a very profitable production in countries where we exist, we know about what productions might be in this case, which countries of production appear in Serbia, interested in this type of action. We believe that Serbia could certainly profit from this, and it is not spending its own modest budget on making films on the territory of the Republic of Serbia anyway. We know that in the world, such works and such projects are funded and used for big corporate advertising campaigns. We know that Western cinema producers are economically strong and stable, so if they want to shoot here, we don't have to attract them with such modest means. Here, Ral Fines found an interest in filming his Coriolane in this building. So we didn't have to pay him, fortunately, and I think that's actually the right way for them to come, to attract them to all those qualities that Serbia has, and we have enviable qualities in this sphere of culture and we have exceptional world-renowned artists in this sphere of culture. We have how and how to interest them, except for our money, which we really don't have the means and the need to throw in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64762	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. MP Zoran Antic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64763	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, and the SNS reacted when it comes to Article 7. It is quite and inconclusive, which does not recognise any criteria under which the government, certainly on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture, will be in a position to help and encourage foreign producers. You know, we already have the possibility of co-production. In this article, we were left with the possibility that up to 20% of the resources needed to make a film would be the assistance of the Republic Government. We think that it was possible, when it comes to co-production, to regulate some of the rights that the government must have on the basis of these invested funds and this general interest that is going through almost the whole of the law could be arranged in this article. That's what we're pretty short on and it's quite disturbing, and the fact that it's very difficult, at the moment you give money, that you can claim that you have a piece of work that has some kind of artistic value and that's the national interest that comes out of it. That is why we have sought to make sure that, even if the resources that will be allocated are spent either on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, given the possibilities of our economy, our state, that at least some restrictions be imposed on the Government, at least some restrictions on your ministry. We regret that in this sense, even though there was no more understanding, and quite certainly this is one topic, an institute that you had to work more seriously in this law and that this institute could have generated a serious benefit and perhaps an important repair of the image of our country in the world and the interest of foreign producers, but it is very important that this be more transparent and that in the right sense of the word that this general interest is recognised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64764	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dusan Maric. Here you go. DUSAN MARIĆ: Ladies and gentlemen, Article 7 is talking about the possibility that the Republic of Serbia is stimulating foreign producers to film their film achievements on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I will quote this member – to encourage foreign producers to produce foreign cinema works from Article 6 of this Law in Serbia, the foreign producer is paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, in line with the funds provided in the Serbian budget, up to 28% of the total film funds spent on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in line with the government's special act. Ladies and gentlemen, this money will be paid out of the budget, meaning from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We from the SRS are against it, and that's why we're proposing a reduction in this percentage. We did not propose to delete a member because we hope that after so much time some producer will finally show up who will be willing to invest his resources in filming a film in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which will be affirmatively talking about the Serbian people, about the Republic of Serbia, about its national minorities and about its citizens at all. So, for this reason, we have submitted this amendment that we propose to reduce the percentage from 20% to 10%, and one of the reasons and the basic reason why we have proposed a reduction in this percentage is that we are a poor country, and that films in foreign countries are mostly made by strong and financially powerful productions that do not necessarily need this kind of aid. Thank you. One minute and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64766	Mr. Markovic, in this time of severe economic crisis and because of the fact that this percentage cannot fix the film industry, to call it, in Serbia, we have suggested that this percentage be reduced. I'll remind you that the big movies, and you said the other day that the names of sponsors of a series or film in the logout list, were never based on strict budget funds, including those of the former states, as well as the canal achievements that received the Golden Palm Award, such as "Do you remember Doli Bell", "The Hanging House", and at the end of the films of Zivko Nikolic, the films of Slobodan Sijana, which are our great film achievements, were not financed by budget funds, but by the people and producers of these films, as well as many others, were looking for a foothold in some large companies or in some foreign houses that helped fund the film. We believe that people who have been able to make these film achievements and who have shown that in such a way one big project can finance it will do the same, and that they will not rely on budget funds, and we will have debated the Republic of Serbia's budget from Monday, and you know very well that our country is over-indebted and we have a huge budget deficit and that everything that this incompetent government and government have done since 2000 until today has made it a lot less resources for culture at all. But if we were to build a graduation and on that scale what is most needed for citizens, we must first of all take care of the social protection of our most vulnerable, of those who have lost their jobs, and they are over a million in Serbia in this process, as you like to say, transitions. I am absolutely certain, as well as my colleagues from the SRS, that these people who have some big projects will in exactly the same way provide funds, as did these creators that I mentioned earlier, and their film achievements have nevertheless reached some glory and have been recognized in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64767	It was used two minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64768	As I said in explaining Mr. Radisa Ilic's amendments, in our country, foreign producers are mostly making, unfortunately, films that speak very badly of the Serbian people and history of Serbia, especially war events from 1991 to 1999. And last time I asked a question and now I repeat it – does one of you know about a film by a foreign production that was made on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that in a very bad way it does not represent the citizens of Serbia, especially the Serbian people, and when it comes to these war events it represents in a very ugly way the Serbian army and Serbian soldiers? To stop this practice, we have submitted the next amendment and I will read it. So, we propose that this article 7 be complemented by the following attitude: "the funds of the 1st member's position can only be paid to that foreign producer whose film work does not deny, or does not question the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, does not degrade or degrade the national feelings, identity and tradition of the Serbian people and national minorities living in Serbia and I end up and do not encourage hatred on a racial, national and religious basis." I really believe that the text of this amendment is so convincing, so normal, so rational and from the point of view of Serbian national interests and views of Serbian cultural interests and from the point of view of the interest of the film industry in the Republic of Serbia that it does not need any particular explanation. We simply believe that there must be a ban on any way to stimulate the budget of the Republic of Serbia to make films on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which in a very bad way speak to this country about its citizens, and in particular to the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64769	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th amendment was filed by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64770	Article 10 is quite important for SNS because we believe that somehow the pretentious government and the Ministry enters this project and into this law itself, because under the concept of general interest, everything about cinematography is still a little bit defined. You know, if we're aware of the moment we live in, some of our financial opportunities, I'm afraid that when you define the general interest so broadly, you're not investing enough in the possibility that any personal means and private initiative should direct the development of cinematography, then you're holding back the development of cinematography yourself. At first, I was talking about the definition of general interest. The definition of general interest is given in some way through our legislation, and what are the activities of general interest to us. It is said that these activities include only actions of strategic interest for the Republic and those actions which provide the necessary conditions for the life of citizens and the achievement of human rights and freedoms, as well as for the financing of the economy and state bodies. You know, you in article 10 have, I think 12 items and you talk about what from the budget, what should be allocated, what financial resources for some goals and some general interests. In these general interests, for example under point 5, you also mean encouraging the restoration, maintenance and standardisation of the cinema network. I think that's what falls under a personal initiative. I think there's too much ambition in that part of the law and this attitude itself. Then, point 6) "encouragement, development of the technical base of cinema of the Republic of Serbia and the introduction of information technology". In point 7 "the introduction of a united electronic and information centre of distribution and sales of cinema tickets". You go too far, the means for it, certainly, you don't. Instead of going to some public and private partnership project, to help cinematography in the right way and to help the development of cinema, you entered a system where cinematography itself, everything that needs to be expected from the state, the state, on the other hand, will not be able to provide those funds. It seems to me that with such wide-ranging and over-promising promises that work in cinematography, in fact, you're disabling this law yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64771	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The word is Miss Jovanovic Natasa.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64772	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Let me get back to this topic from the beginning. You saw the amendment of my colleague Dušanka Plečević. This is the SRS's intensity, as we wanted to change the name of the law into the law on Serbian cinematography, so we intervened in Article 10. She suggested adding new points 13 and 14 after point 12). Otherwise, in order for citizens who are monitoring the transfer of the Assembly to know what this is about, it is about general interest in the area of cinematography. We believe that what is Serbian, which is national, which is the cultural, historical heritage of the Serbian people, should be the general interest of Serbian cinematography. So, point 13) of Dr Dusanka Plecevic reads: "Incentive and preserve the cultural identity of the Serbian people" and point 14) "encourage and preserve the memory of the history of Serbia and the Serbian people, the tradition of the Serb people and the national minorities living in the Republic of Serbia, particularly of significant historical events and personalities that have owed their lives and works to the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia". You, Minister Markovic, mentioned in principle the film "Karadjordje", which we came into possession after 80 years and he succeeded, fortunately, to be saved, to be preserved and shown. Since I have to go back to that time of production of Broz's Partizan films in the '50s and '60s, and that castoff of the people about totalitarian communist ideology, we are now in a situation, because we are a country that is in grave danger, these NATO and EU villains are taking away our southern province of KIM, and it is up to Vojvodina and Raška area, so the colleague Plecevic put in point 14) that we should promote the cultural heritage of national minorities living in our country, that such films are being filmed and that it should be a very legal provision, not if anyone ever shows up, if not to ask for these minimum budgets. Now the question arises whether this government wants in film art to promote the Serbian nation and the Serbian state? We don't think so, because if you wanted to, there are several amendments, so was this recently colleague Vukicevic – the preservation of Serbian national and cultural identity. What's going on now, Mr. Markovic? I assume you're at least the occasional visitor to some movie premieres. The hyperproduction that comes from the former BiH, more specifically film production from Sarajevo, which is colored with enormous hatred for the Serb people, has made one such film, among other things. Every year, as in Zagreb, Croatia, which occupied the Republika Srpska Krajina, makes films that are tendingly adopted against the Serb people. A colleague, Maric, spoke part of it. Imagine what they made in Bosnia, as they like to say there. They made a film in which a Serb soldier harassed, molested a boy who is a Muslim religion, wearing a Manchester United uniform. What now was the goal - to draw anger and anger around the world of Manchester United fans or to introduce a Serb soldier as one who is a villain and thus harassing a boy who cheers for a world club. There's a lot of cases like that. Not to mention the examples where the Serbs are always the ones who rape, who kill, the same thing Bulajic did during the Broz communist Yugoslavia, made such films. They are not financing from the BiH budget. Do you see that there is no government in the Federation yet, but they find sponsors, enemies of the Serbian people to finance such films, and such films have mega, mega premieres in Belgrade cinemas, and we have nothing to show for it. When I told you that as a man who knows and follows Serbian and former Yugoslav literature, you might be able to list the works by which films of any author or novelist have been made so far, there are few. I will tell you some of the most popular screenings in Serbian cinema, as correctly said, and not in cinema, because it is Serbian, these are "Anka's times" by Vladimir Pogačić, "Dervis and Death" by Zdravko Velimirovic, "Una" by the novel Moma Kapor, Misa Radivojević, "Times of Wonder" Goran Paskaljević, "Petrija's Wreath", which Karanovic recorded and there's the point. What about those greats from Serbian history who have never been put on film? So, when I spoke earlier, Mrs. Comic interrupted me, in an argument for my colleague Žutić's amendment, she really wanted me to say that it's abnormal for all the nations and nations in the world to rise up to their film achievements where they popularize their history, their tradition, and we don't exactly have such films. If someone made a heroic movie about the despot Stefan Lazarevic in the manner of Kenneth Brane, who made the movie about Henry on the fifth or Serbian medieval time, because it is necessary to see that this medieval Serbian culture, our monasteries, our saints on KIM are ours, Serbian, and that it cannot come in, or in this world now what hegemony is like by America and the West is all possible and occupied by KIM, Angela Merkel, the minority says they are not Serbian monuments and are not Serbian sanctities. To make such a film, such as Borman's "Escalibur" or to make a film about national heroism, about a Serbian national hero, the way it is Hollywood Americans, because they don't have their own history, and since the decade there has long been ruled by only the interests and enslavement of other peoples, they have made a slide film "Brave Heart" in which one of the most passionate actors is acting, so let it now revolve around the media as I attacked this actor, one of those who advocates such propaganda against Serbs. Or to make a film about Milan Obrenovic, because we know that Kragujevac is the first Serbian capital, the newer Serbian state and that we started to cultivate this tradition there and that it was achieved by the modern Serbian state after the liberation of Turks, such as the movie about Milan Obrenovic, as Lawrence Olivier made such a film "Prince and Toys" or to make a biography of the Serbian family from the time of the Prince Michael, for example, as is the case of a film that is still shown today on all televisions with national frequencies in our country, or even a series, which is a movie by the novel "Sense and Sensibility" of England. There are still many topics that we should promote, and above all the suffering of the Serbian people over the past 20 years since the great forces decided to break the space of the former Yugoslavia, enslave the Serbian people, take our territory and thus not talk about Serbian trilogy, because some people intended to make such a film. So here I have already mentioned that the film "On the Drina Cupria" will be made according to the novel Ivo Andric, but believe me, Mr Markovic, there will come a time when people who are from the field of this art, fully aware of it, I was talking about the documentary of young director Boris Malagurski. To the fear of Ali, there will be people who will film the plays of what happened to the Serbian people, and yet there will be funds for it. People who want to respect our national and cultural identity will certainly be encouraged one day and will not be in this current utopia of Serbian film, especially in the past ten years since they have been in force so-called. democratic change all comes down to hopelessness. Some images are being created about how some families in Serbia and the people are alienated from each other. That's not true at all. I'm telling you no matter what the difficult situation is in every respect and what so many people are without a job and what's hard to live for, it's still especially in a village that is now with fewer and fewer inhabitants, that symbol of people's closeness, if you want me to use that word, solidarity is present at work. So why are only short documentary films made about it? Why don't we make some big movies about it? Or some movies about various kinds of protests, protests against what? What are you guys up against in this room and representing the government in Serbia on October 5th? You fought for the interests of the great forces. For America and for the West who wants their postulates and democratic and some culture to impose on us here and tell us, here are just a few examples of what kind of European Serbia, medieval Serbia, I need a film, a color in Kosovo. But in the end, you yourself know that one of the greatest battles of Serbian soldiers, the film Marsh at Drin, is the only chance of such a film that spoke of the glorious history of the Serb army. It will simply come time, Mr. Markovic, when one of these young people will fit enough and have the support, eventually the national companies of private, large and people who have money or people who live abroad to make such a film. How much such a movie about any Serb giant could be promoted throughout the globe of the Earth, I will tell you on the basis of what our people living abroad are asking for. There are various associations who speak to us and write letters to us. These are Serbs who live all over the planet and they have asked the government of the Republic of Serbia and this minister against whom we have submitted the interpretation, because of his abuses and violations of laws and manifesto, Srdjana Sretkovic. So they asked him and the diaspora assembly to establish some kind of association of truth about Serbs. Imagine how much it would mean to them that in the middle of this media propaganda and hajka that has been going on for two decades over the Serbian people, one such film about the heroism of the Serbian people is being filmed. You don't think they'd be crowded in that theater and not raise this people here and say hello to one of those movies. I just told you that they were made but had some other authors, like Stevan Jakovljevic, since I mentioned the Serbian trilogy, intending to make one such film but simply there is no money for it and as we said earlier. We don't think it should be a budget project but to encourage these people if they can finance various things, if this Vukic and his associates, Nebojsa Stefanovic, and Stefanovic's wife and sister, were able to wash that kind of money through the team profiler in Telekom Srbija. I'm sorry how to leave people like this hanging and nobody helping them and they're starting to demoralize, so they can't make such big projects. This all present morality by those who are parliamentarians and who have participated in the making of this law and those, as they like to call themselves, new or new democratic artists, who detest to talk in such a way about Serbian national culture and history, simply do not deserve and deserve attention to mentioning their names here, but how small the number of films in Serbia is in 2011 alone, and now these titles and themes, speak enough about that there is nothing national and there is no promotion of Serbian culture and national identity at all. Here, in 2000 it was seven, in 2001 nine films, and the same number in 2002 and 2003, in 2004, 12, in 2005, eight, in 2006, again 12 and 2010 was actually the worst year, only four films made. You agree with me. I still haven't mentioned our novelist Slobodan Selenić and the movie "Murder With Premeditation" when I talked about which they were screened. In the end and why not mention the series that goes, but it is a production of a part of Serbia's Radio-Television, Mirjana Jakovljevic, Alias Mir Jam, according to her novels and the series, that is, what is shown and how she looks and talks again about some peaceful time of a Serbia in which some order is known and in which, however, people who were officials, who were peasants and people who did various jobs had a place in such a Serbian society. Unfortunately, in this time of globalisation and all that Americans and the West do to us, it is not possible and such values are no longer promoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64773	The word is by MP Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64774	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Dusanka Plecevic has tabled an amendment to add points 13 and 14 to Article 10 after point 12) and points (14): Encouraging and preserving the cultural identity of the Serbian people. Encourage and preserve the memory of the history of Serbia and the Serbian people, the tradition of the Serb people and national minorities living in the Republic of Serbia, particularly of significant historical events and personalities that have been owed by the Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia with their lives and work. Article 10 sets out what is considered a general interest in cinematography, among other things, in preserving and encouraging the identity of domestic cinematographic creation, but does not mention the national and identity of Serbian people and national minorities living in Serbia. This is a continuation of the repression of every national identity through art systematically implemented, as in times of communism. Every national cinema in the world promotes and affirms its cultural and national personality through film. So in the world, we often have a week of national movies. Cinematography of other civilizations, such as India, Brazil, Japan, through which so-called The Western world takes note not only of highly professional and artistic creation in the field of cinematography, but also of cultural customs, education, science, folklore and other areas, which is the national identity of a country, not by questioning the artistic freedom of authors. Unfortunately, our cinema in the past has been recorded by the blackest films in the national interests of the Serbian state, according to the author's court, the interest groups that gave money to defile the Serbian people through calls of projects that no normal man can digest, such as the movies "Beautiful Villages Nice Up", "Turneia", and similar, which have empty cinemas after 10 minutes of showing. Fortunately, such films are similar to them for single use, with no artistic value, but that is why with clear inappropriate spit on their people and the state will soon be forgotten. Only the creators of such puzzling works as the courtships of an international regime whose interest in money and personal political promotion was stronger than any artistic interest will be remembered. In the professional public, this law is called shameful, with lobbyists and authors of this bill being apostrophe, which will continue to receive huge money for filmmaking. As for us from the SRS, we can add that they will receive money for anti-Serbian projects from citizens of Serbia, the same Serbian citizens who muddy in their expensive films. Accept this amendment so that true artists can show their talent and creativity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64775	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64776	Ladies and gentlemen, in favour of this argument for which reasons the amendment of Dušanka Plecevic should be accepted, I will point to several more devastating facts that I spoke of in the debate in principle. One, we only have a few films about the entire First World War. Two, we have a bunch of documentary films, played movies about drug addicts and criminals, about people from underground, but we don't have a single film about Saint Sava who's one of the greatest Serbian statesmen and enlighteners. We do not have a single feature film, as is said, about Despot Stefan Lazarevic or Mark Mrnjavčević, who is one of the largest Serbian national heroes. We have dozens of films in which Serbs are presented as criminals, but that is why we do not have a single feature film about the loss of the Serb people in the Jasenovac camp, where, as you know, about 700,000 people were killed mostly by the Serb people. Where you'll be making bigger arguments to accept this amendment and where you'll be making bigger objections to the Serbian film industry than the fact that even in 2011, when we're marking 50 years from the day that Eva Andric won the Nobel Prize, we still don't have a single feature film made in that novel. We also don't have a single feature film about the loss of the Serbian people in Croatia, in BiH, Slovenia, in KIM, but we have several films which, among other things, are funded from the Serbian budget, which speak very poorly of the role of the Serbian people in the 1991-1999 wars. So the citizens know what they're talking about in article 10. I'm going to quote that member to figure out what I'm talking about. Article 10. The general interest in cinematography in terms of this law is: to preserve the continuity of freedom and diversity of film creation, to encourage domestic film art creation, to encourage production of domestic and foreign film works on the Republic of Serbia, to promote the distribution of public representation in the field of cinematographic creation, to promote the restoration, maintenance and standardisation of cinematographic networks, to encourage the development of the technical base and cinematography of the Republic of Serbia and to introduce information technologies and to modernise the field of film industry, to introduce a united electronic information centre for the distribution and sale of cinematographic tickets, to encourage and preserve the cultural identity of domestic cinematographic creation, to exercise the right to cultural speciality in the field of the film industry of members of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, to improve international cooperation, to the domestic film industry in the European and cultural development of the world. As you can see, there is not a single word anywhere about the interest of the Serb people. The interests of the film industry are mentioned, the interests of the national minorities are mentioned, it is okay, it should be, but it is not normal that there is not a single word to encourage and preserve the cultural identity of the Serb people and the need to encourage and preserve memories of the history of the Serbian people, of significant historical events and significant historical figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64777	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64778	Thank you. Article 10, the basic bill has two positions and is first under the title – General Interest in the area of cinematography. In its first position, which I did not propose to change, Article 10 says – the general interest in cinematography in terms of this law is: 1. the preservation of continuity, freedom and diversity of cinematographic creation, the 2nd promotion of domestic film, artistic creation, the 3rd promotion of production of domestic and foreign cinematographic works in the Republic of Serbia, the 4th promotion of distribution and public demonstration in cinematography, the 5th promotion of maintenance and standardisation of cinematographic networks, the 6th promotion of the development of the technical base of cinematography of the Republic of Serbia and the introduction of IT technologies and modernisation in the field of cinematography, the 7th introduction of a united electronic IT centre of distribution and the sale of cinematographic tickets, the 8th promotion and preservation of the cultural identity of domestic cinematographic creation, the 9th establishment of the right of cinematography in the field of cultural science and cultural development of cultural heritage in the 10th century in the field of cultural culture. The second position of this member says – funds for achieving general interest in cinema are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and my amendment says that after these words -- the Republic of Serbia, delete the point and add words -- autonomous provinces and local self-government. The reasons for the submission of such an amendment are that both the autonomous province and local self-government and how they promote domestic film creation and cultural diversity in order to exercise the right to cultural speciality in the area of cinematography and members of national minorities, where the members of national communities are in a relative majority in individual local self-governments in Serbia, as well as the presentation of domestic cinematographic works on significant events in the country and abroad. What are the three reasons for submitting such an amendment, other than the reasons which, as well as any explanation, describe the reasons that can be classified in the fact that even now in a way that is not clearly defined by law, is in accordance with the Law on Public Finance and the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, as well as local self-government and autonomous province, meaning Vojvodina, helps to achieve all these general interests, clearly and precisely listed in Article 10? Secondly, such a 2nd point add-on would encourage all those involved at the level of local self-government in the construction, i.e. by making budgets on the revenue and distribution side, to know that there is a legal possibility of predicting some expenditure on those parties in their local budgets and at the level of the budget of the autonomous province and thirdly, would allow it to be clearly seen in this legislative provision that this law, apart from dealing with one important topic, is therefore the law on cinematography, which regulates in a good way, after 20 years of the last regulation, an important area in our society, has the awareness that it is not only a responsibility at national level, that it is not only the responsibility of the national budgets, but also the budget of the autonomous province and local self-government. Or, in a simpler way, whether they are next year, whether they are in that budget or not, but to show quite clearly that we want to recognise reality first, and secondly to create a law-based space to finance both from the autonomous province and local self-government budgets. Only a remark on the position of 1st of this Article 10. I think neither should be added nor taken away from any of these 12 definitions which describe the general interest and that the legislator, or legislator, we will be legislators and ultimately decide, but that the legislator is both in good faith and in the best possible way describing what the general interest is. Anything else I suggest is quite a mockery of one good idea, one good formulation and good understanding and craftsmanship but also dedicated, it is seen in the texts of this law, therefore, by one good knowledge of the field of law. With all the repairs, which we are prepared to do from the ruling majority, of course our opposition colleagues, with the hope that the minister, as so far, will take into account the examination of the amendments, regardless of whether we propose it from the ruling majority or opposition and accept any one that contributes to the improvement, precision or clarification of a provision proposed in this law, with the hope that the minister will have the opportunity to accept my amendment, and if not, then, with the prognosis that I will be able to provide the amendment majority with my colleagues in the voting day, so that this amendment becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64779	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64780	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little confused right now. It happens, old man. This amendment has, of course, been accepted by the minister, like a whole series of amendments, I don't know how there has been a disagreement. Clearly, Ms Vukicevic's amendment, concerning the preservation of Serbia's national and cultural identity, was accepted, so there was no need for another formulation later. Or Mr Vukovic's amendments, which we have spoken about in an adequate manner in accordance with the terminology changes and technological changes, are now more clearly, more precisely, something that has been resolved by the Law on Cultural Goods, has now been placed through several members of this law and, if I have to repeat this, and now the amendment to Article 4 and the amendment to Article 18, which was submitted by the Committee on Culture and Informing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. These are all amendments, as well as amendments by Mrs. Djeric, who have been accepted, and others not to mention them, they are all accepted because something that exists or exists in reality, and not until the end was defined by some member, this is an example. Already at the level of local self-government, at the level of the province, as well as at the level of the Republic, resources are allocated and there is a need and happiness often there is an opportunity to allocate funds to help one general interest through a concrete project. So, all of this general interest that you have read, which the biller has included and counted, is often recognized at the level of local self-government and autonomous province, and I don't see any reason why it's considered a burden, maybe I'm wrong, so I'm saying that I'm confused. This is not the way the amendment was formulated. This is not the obligation of local self-government and autonomous province to do something that is of general interest, so what according to the Law on Culture is certainly a competent republic, this is not an obligation imposed, but an opportunity that exists that something that is already done simply and by law is defined and thus made easier. My position is clear. But I have to remind you of other parts of the discussion, I apologize for the illness I'll be gone for 15 minutes, to respond to some of the confusing data we've heard. God forbid that only so many films on significant works of literature in Serbia were recorded, as listed in one discussion. I can say ten times as much right now, because cinema has not existed in the last ten years, and in the context of them, look at movies by the works of Stevan Sremec, Branislav Nusic, not to mention further. Otherwise, Andric never won any Nobel Prize for the novel "At the Drina Cup", because the award is not awarded for an individual book, but it is certainly highlighted and it is part of the discussion. I fully understand the need for MPs to often do something that is resolved by one member of the law they use in a political discussion, quite understandablely, about another member, but certainly I cannot allow certain MPs to be differentiated because they are one or the other professions. That's exactly why we're MPs. Whether the amendment was filed by a film critic or submitted by a doctor, to me as a minister is absolutely one thing. And it certainly doesn't matter to you, because God forbid it's just a profession or an experience that points you to doing this job. The meaning of the National Assembly is completely different, and these discussions, both in principle and in particular, serve as independent of experience, from education in accordance with Serbia's single legal system, we find the best solutions. That's why I thank everyone who helped, no matter what they were in education, whether they were a doctor, so he gave the amendment. Most often, as you know, you all have expert advisors in MP groups, don't deprive them if you don't have them. I thought it was you. I'm sorry about this dyspression. It is most normal for MPs to use every kind of technical and expertise to translate them into an amendment, which will seek to better define one general and public interest and to thank all those who have done so. But, once again, I have to remind you, there have been several conversations about Article 7. It is not about money given from the budget in advance, but up to 20% of the funds invested in making films in the Republic of Serbia are returning. Of course it comes back from the budget, because it was previously spent and of course it exists in the budget. It's not about stimulating ahead, it's about eventually serving and it's not possible to discuss whether it's better to be 10 or 20%. That would mean that we underestimate those, and you've praised them so much as great and powerful representatives of the film industry, they're both great and powerful, taking care of every dinar. Of course he'll go where 20% is, not 10% vomit. Since 20% of all countries are surrounded by this vomit, we couldn't choose because otherwise it would be hypocritical or underestimating of people who invest that money to tell you – come to us, although you will lose another 10%. What would they be doing? It's important to us, especially in these difficult times, that in those areas where it doesn't invest, we activate those investments. Of course, I realized that one of the amendments was extremely well-intentioned. That's the one that's distrative, which predicted that you in advance can distance yourself from what might eventually be the content of the film, perhaps. But, I remind you, you asked if there was any film that was made here in the film studio without speaking ill of the Serbian people? I answer to you – yes, there are several hundred such films, of several hundred that have been made, because if you think, if any of us think that the film industry, first of all, is worried about making films here about us. No, it's about those topics that are interesting to their audience. After all, take a walk in Ava's movie and look at those scenes and what those movies were about, which were made here. Take a walk to some other places where movies are made and you'll see, those movies, by the way, don't talk about us. Those who really want to be trendy, why do you think they need so much authenticity? They'll lie about Serbia, only they won't lie, whether they've recorded it in some environment in another country, which is located in a region that can easily fool anyone whether it's authentic or not. It's pointless. On the other hand, all this law treats is an attempt to create adequate and equal conditions, that it depends not on the ministry but on the people who do business, that those through the institution of culture, because I don't know why the film we're investing in, and I remind, not just us, the greatest means in modern creation, in all countries it's about. Why wouldn't a film just have an institution of culture, so all the other areas have it, in an adequate way, that would take care of it? So, not only is the cinema that we have Yugoslav, but also the Serbian Film Centre, which would worry about it. Why does it matter? Because in our political disputes, we often want to be exclusive. When time passes, it doesn't matter. I'd remind you, we forget it lightly because of ideology. Today I discovered the record of Gligorija Vozarovic, so we remembered, Negoš and Wolf wrote against Dosite. Serbia, thank God, they also need Dositej, and Wolf and Negos. What the discussions were about was who was going to use a few printing machines, it was a little bit of ideology, a bit of an economy, as always, where it would end up with a typeography. But when time goes by, it's important that there were conditions that could be printed or stamped. We're going back to that, if you can use both terms. It was important that it was possible and that it was done in Serbia. Then, when time passes, the traces of these great conflicts will be erased, and it is important that we preserve all the unthinkers who have created good deeds. That's what's important in the movie. Of course, it worked wherever it was necessary, not because it was used. The explanation does not refer to the use of something in Serbia, but is used as a common international terminology, so that we do not risk that someone who is an ignorant translator, on several occasions sends one and the same letters there, because he does not know what it refers to, then wherever these members are, of course he writes what is common. So let's say it says "production," "sinematography," as usual, it says television, and it doesn't say "collect," because it's not meant to be confused. Anyway, your example is interesting and I agree it covers everything, but that's why it doesn't mean anything, this "top brother". Thanks again to everyone who helped, but once again, when we took care of it, we had to take care of others who were interested, and they weren't directly in film production and cinematography. One example is the media. You've seen how it works with the laws when they're in public debate for months, then someone remembered at the last minute, so we had to protect when funding, we had to do everything to avoid applying a model that's common in the region, which is to directly charge television for cinematography needs, to make television binding. We know that our televisions are poor, that they already have a problem with insufficient advertising, that the market is low, so instead, we have provided for a commitment to the regulatory body of the RRA. So that's where what's being charged, that's where it's coming out, where it's usually coming out of the surplus over the budget, so it's being arranged according to the law. It's just, we've been looking for a way, and I want to thank everyone who helped, including the RRA. Today we have one amendment that is possible that, of course, the media is being relieved and will only be, because we hope that after this, the additional RRA will also lower everything that is now being charged by the emitter. It is very important to reduce their expenditures. Of course, when possible, there will be higher charges and when we have a bigger market, everyone will benefit, among other things, from cinematography. Until then, cinema shares the fate of others. It's the same with Rattel. We had to make sure that, however much less than the surpluses being made to Ratela, which is charged by the operator, that part of the surplus is invested in the budget, part of raising the level of telecommunications technology, creating preconditions for technological development, and so far some of it has ended up, or some capacity building within education, culture. Now it only predefines itself and thus also becomes visible where all the savings are made and what all is spent on is what is the surplus income compared to expenditure. In no way is it increasing, nor is there a reason to increase the operator's obligations. On the contrary, they and in this area must be reduced. As you know, these independent regulatory bodies are not independent of how much they can spend on their salaries, but they are independent in the decision-making and enforcement of the laws that this National Assembly has passed. It is a great pleasure that we have all managed in different ways to contribute to finding solutions that will enable us to fight and to preserve, in addition to all the fears and pressures of others, to ensure that we do not have a new inducement on the media, rather than create a condition for them to be further distracted, that the same case is with operators and that we create a stable possibility of financing cinematography without it being excluded from the state of society. Although this is also the information for Miss Jovanovic, and I suppose a compliment that she did not say is the fact that in 2011, a lot more films were made than in 2010 and 2009, together and thank all those who helped.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64781	Thank you, Minister. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12 of the amendment submitted by MP Simo Vukovic, the Government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64782	I am withdrawing the amendment to Article 12, so that it may cease to be the subject of the search and not be the subject of voting in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64783	I thank the People's Parliament. So, I find that the amendment to the 12th People's Parliament, Mrs Gordana Komic, has withdrawn. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64784	I'll read our proposal, and then I'll make a brief comment. We have suggested adding another position 7, which reads: "The members of the Centre's Authority, meaning, the Serbian Film Centre, and associated persons cannot have a share or management rights in legal persons dealing with production, traffic or public display and are subject to rules on the prohibition of conflict of interest." I think this attitude that we've suggested is quite clear. It seems to us that so far not all film makers have been equal when it comes to the incentive funds received from the Ministry of Culture, which have been allocated from the budget and there have been many different lobbys. When you look back, for years, some have come much easier than others. Any regulation and tightening of regulation in the sense of avoiding corruption, avoiding abuse in the distribution of funds, we believe that it is necessary in this area, given that the funds are modest and we need them in the most efficient and economical way and that we are spending, and in order to get those films and projects that are the most qualitative. It was the cause and motive of the SNS when she submitted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64785	National MP Djordje Milicevic and joint MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric submitted an amendment in the same text that they propose to add a new Article 13a after Article 13, and the Government and Committee on Culture and Information accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64786	In the context of what I just said, we think that the ingenuities, jobs and powers that got the Centre are pretty big. In particular, in Article 17. The centre announces and conducts a public competition to collect proposals for funding and co-financing of domestic film production projects. So, the center designs itself and sets up a competition as he thinks. The conditions in this competition essentially determine who will have and who will not have the right to apply for those funds. Our opinion is that, given everything that's happened in the film industry so far, it should be done by the Ministry and that it's another brake from the abuses I was talking about earlier. That is the purpose of this amendment submitted by the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64787	The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Radenkovic submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64788	The SRS believes that the films should definitely be made in Serbia. After all, our country and our experts continue with a good tradition, and we are famous in the world for the stagewriters, as the minister also spoke of when he mentioned "The Flag of Film", where today there are some objects where several films have been made. However, in this article, paragraph 8 gives criteria on which films are valued in the election whether a movie will be financed with 20% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Through this amendment, we added two points of 10th and 11th, where in point 10, we ask that this film, namely its scenario, contributes to the preservation of the cultural identity of the Serbian people and national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, and at point 11, that the scenario contributes to the preservation of the memory of the history of Serbia and the Serbian people, and to the significant personalities that have owed Serbian people and citizens of Serbia with their lives and works. In addition to these nine criteria existing, it would certainly affect the quality of the selection of films to be funded from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We have all had opportunities to see in these past years a number of films in which the Serbian people are precisely due to events in the premises of the former SFRY as a people of criminals, murderers, etc. That is why we are in any case supporting an initiative to record films that would talk affirmatively about the Serbian people. I had the opportunity to read two scenarios as a military artist for two films, one of which is related to the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to the dogs of war or mercenaries who come from Great Britain to BiH where they wrap up members of the Serb and Muslim people, and the film was named after the war titled "Lov". The second film was tied to World War I, but both spoke affirmatively about the Serb people. Also, we have had the opportunity to see recently a documentary film that was partly recorded and partly used by documentaries of Russia, where it is said about Kosovo and Metohija, about the war in Kosovo and Metohija and where it is practically very affirmatively depicted the interest of the Republic of Serbia in that area, which is of great importance nowadays, because it is one thing when we talk about KIM, and it is quite another picture when other people talk about it. We had opportunities to talk about it and, let's say, Mary Walsh of Great Britain, and they especially talked about it through these documentary films by Russian filmmakers. That is why the SRS particularly argues that the selection of films that will be financed from the Republika Srpska budget does not in any way drop the memory criterion on the history of Serbia and the Serbian people and the criteria for preserving the cultural identity of Serbian people and national minorities living in Serbia's space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64789	Thank you. On Article 18, the amendment, submitted by MP Gordana Komic, the government and the Committee on Culture and Information, accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. There's no answer for word. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go, Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, this amendment refers to a member who regulates the promotion of domestic cinematography. So at point 2) we asked that the percentage of "1.5%" be replaced by the percentage "2.5%", i.e. that's the part that relates to the intervention from the funds that RTS achieves in relation to the subscription of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Given that a significant part of the RTS programme is certainly domestic cinematography, i.e. by showing films of domestic cinematography, we believe that the percentage of 1.5% is very modest, and that RTS, which should be the public service of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and whose main income still comes from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, should have an interest in separating from that modest percentage of 1.5%, yet one slightly higher percentage is 2.5% of the funds. So, we all agree that Serbia does not have enough resources for domestic cinema, and we all agree that it can be found here somewhere and be stimulating and that the work of all our artists in domestic cinema makes it easier, if this is one of the amendments that really enables domestic cinemas to achieve some of the funds that they are talking to, are viewers, it's audience, it's citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would certainly want one part of their money to be sent to film workers in Serbian cinematography in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64791	Thank you. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. There's no answer for word. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Fa Tomic. There's no answer for word. On the basis of Article 156, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure, on Article 18 of the amendment, were submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. There's no answer for word. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The word is Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64792	Thank you. I also thank you for the agreements and dialogue that resulted in the adoption of the previous amendment to Article 18(1), where the budgets of the autonomous province and local self-government were again discussed. I think it'll only contribute to the better quality of the law. I'm withdrawing the amendment to article 19. I am using this time to say that I am also withdrawing the amendment to Article 33, in order to spare further consideration and us in voting day, in order to save time and, of course, to send a message that amendments can be submitted, to participate in dialogue, to try to convince and then work in the full interest of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when we understand what is what most of them have, why they have a majority, and how we can save ourselves time together, that is, this law is a good reason for that, general interest when it comes to the process of passing the law. I thank both the promoter and the Minister and the members of the Information Committee and everyone with whom there has been dialogue during the debate on this law and during the debate on amendments, at the atmosphere, co-operation and the attempt to make as many amendments as possible, submitted by the MPs of the opposition and the MPs of the majority, really become part of the law. As an illustration, I will show a fact that can be verified in the General Secretariat, that, unfortunately, very often with ease and no honor, lies about how the draft laws in the National Assembly pass without the acceptance of amendments, any and anyone's, and it is easy to get information from the Secretary-General how many amendments have been tabled, how many amendments have been submitted by the MPs of the opposition and how many amendments have been submitted by the MPs of the ruling majority. I am pleased to conclude that the MPs who receive the feeling of being called, commenting that what I am talking about is not a topic. And it's the subject because it's about the amendment that's been filed. Some of these amendments have been accepted, some have been withdrawn, and some of these amendments will be the subject of voting in the voting day. I use the thematic process of submitting amendments to this law to show that it can be co-operated through dialogue, without fear and without lying about how many amendments have been submitted, which MPs have done so and how many have been accepted. I am pleased to say the percentage that the Secretary-General has announced to me, which is that of the total number of amendments accepted, 50.5% of those who have submitted MPs to the opposition of different parliamentary groups, individual MPs, are on different drafts of the law. It speaks of the good work of the opposition, but it also speaks of building dialogues and the process of passing laws in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is an explanation of why I withdraw amendments to Article 19 and Article 33. We work together for this joint house, which we are trying to achieve the interests of those who sent us as MPs to defend citizens' interests with truth, honor, decency and data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64793	Thank you. The minister obviously acted inspiringly on everything, but I just remind Mrs. Comic that the amendment to article 19 was accepted by both the Government and the Committee on Culture, and when it comes to number 33, then we'll figure it out. I ask the MPs of the SRS not to earn, for once we already had one misunderstanding that didn't end well for those who threw. Thank you for understanding. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Fa Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. There's no answer for word. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. There's no answer for word. The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. There's no answer for word. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64794	Mr. Minister, I was nervous about whether you would return to the O.R. because I know that you will accept this amendment during the discussion, because you have accepted the amendment to Article 27 and Article 34, where we have, in a linguistic sense, corrected the text of the law, so there is no reason to accept this amendment as well. In fact, we have submitted to Article 21 an amendment that we are asking that, after saying, "legal person and entrepreneur who perform" the words "kinematographic actions" are changed in words: "kinematographic action". Since we definitely agree both you and I, there is no dispute here, that in the Serbian language words must agree in kind, number and fall, I only ask that this gene that does not stand here and cannot stand, be replaced by an acute one. Thus, Article 21 reads as follows: "The legal person and the entrepreneur who perform cinematographic activities are obliged to provide the relevant data regularly for the purpose of keeping records." It must be in the acoustics: cinematographic activity, so I ask you to accept this amendment now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64795	The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64796	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, this article introduces certain restrictions that are totally unacceptable even to a healthy market logic. When it comes to displaying a domestic and co-production cinematographic work, this member imposes on it to start in cinemas and film festivals. True, this work is co-financed by budget funds, but, you know, this is a classic traffic restriction. The basic motive is also the profit of a film piece, so any such project should have some economic logic. If there is an economic logic that allows such a film to profit more, if it is shown in another way, there is no reason for us to limit people and creators in this sense. So I understand the need to encourage a film programme in Serbia in our country and to have as many quality film works as possible on repertoires of cinemas and television houses and generally at festivals. But first of all, profit, first of all, the market, first of all, is the economic calculation that has to interfere with film makers, and that should be the motive of the Ministry of Culture and the Government itself, if we want to speed up the development of cinematography rather than manage our wishes, wills and some bureaucratic consciousness that is not even suitable for the time we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64797	Thank you. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'm sorry, Mr. Maric has the word first.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64798	I'm sorry, Mrs. Djeric, I couldn't find the amendment, and why? Because, in the meantime, it's already been seen through the technical newsroom, which I've already informed you about, both me and the secretary of state, so there's no need for the amendment to be accepted because it's out of place, since it's already been adopted in the technical order and the mistake you've made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64799	Mr. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64800	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 24 provides that the state, the Republic of Serbia, will finance and financially assist every cinema in which 30% of the total hours of projections, at the annual level, falls under domestic films and European films. We suggested that this "European" be deleted, and for the following reasons. I'll show it on one particular case. Suppose the following Serbian war films are shown in the cinema "Balkan" throughout 2012: Life is a miracle, Emir Kusturica; Knife, Miroslav Lekic; Vukovar is one story, Bora Draskovic; Tell why she left me, Oleg Novaković; Deserter, Živojin Pavlovic and Lepoja village nicely up, Srdjan Dragojevic. Let's say that at the same time, in another cinema, during the entire 2012 period, the next Croatian war films are being screened. Croatia is part of Europe, and these are: Stories from Croatia, Krst Papic; Vukovar returns home, Branko Šmita; Time is, Oe Kodor; Price of life, Fabian Šovagović; Bogorodica, Neven Hitreca and Kada the dead sing, Krst Papić. On one side, we have Serbian war films that can be said all but cannot be said to propagate hate in any way and that in a distorted way, at the expense of other peoples, they show events in wars from 1991 to 1999. On the other hand, we have Croatian war films, which Croatian criticism also agrees to promote hatred for the Serb people, to celebrate the ideology of Franjo Tudjman and the New Ustasha movement. For example, I read in the Croatian criticism that they agree that for the film Neven Hitrec, the Virgin, it acts as a call for revenge, because the man in this movie talks about Serbs as a collective, as people who are genetically predetermined to commit violence, to get drunk, to rape and to kill innocent, especially innocent Croats. Not to comment that, in the opinion of both domestic and foreign film critics, this Serbian production I mentioned is far more quality in professional terms. In Article 24 of this bill at the end of the year, the Republic of Serbia will give the same funds for the renovation of cinemas and for buying modern equipment to one and the other cinemas. We in the SRS think that not that it's inadmissible but that, to forgive the expression, it's stupid, it's totally not normal. Serbia's citizens' money should be invested in movies showing Serbian films. I really don't see any reason why we would stimulate the screening of films from Germany, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and let's not say we stimulate the screening of films from India and Chile. Why force the production of bad European films, let's say we didn't stimulate the display of good American films. I just don't get it, and I don't see any logic. I understand that the government, and through this bill, wanted to put a little touch on these Commissioners from Brussels and say, "Here we are, in the film industry, taking care of the European dimension, we continue this time through the European fog." This "Leader" kick-off by Radoj Domanovic, and this is really too much. If the government's goal is to protect citizens from the devastating influence of American films, and I suppose that was the goal, then why don't you protect the citizens of Serbia first from the devastating influence of these films on television. I am absolutely convinced that in one day more people in Serbia are looking at American and other movies on TV than they look at in Belgrade and Serbian cinemas throughout the year. So there is simply no normal, logical argument, why would the Republic of Serbia, without any criteria, mean blankly stimulate the presentation of European films, just because they come from European countries, without getting into the essence of what movies they are and how they treat the Serbian people and the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I really have to express my satisfaction on behalf of MP Gordana Komic because at the time she held the session, Gordana Komic was not chaired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64801	Thank you. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a minister, so Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64802	Thank you for understanding, Mr. Antic, I'm sorry, the technique is a little late. People's MP, I'm impressed by the way something that needs to be protected today can be distorted. Please don't advise anyone or those future movies, because it does seem convincing. Of course, that everything can turn into its opposite, but fortunately it's not an intensity, and I suppose you agree, it's not an intensity, I use the word "people's letter" before that. So the law is unique, and fortunately other members are prevented from falling on such an abuse. But there's something else that's terribly important. When you're helping something of your own, you have to respect everyone who helps. The programme has been going on for years, thanks to the Euroimage, the means to ensure that we are cinemas in Serbia, and look at what it looks like in Serbia, and many of you know it, to what extent there are no cinemas, how technology is changing today, and some of the existing ones will not be able to show modern films at all. The funds are provided from Euroimage, as much as Serbia provides. Of course, that's when we want to help our citizens, our cities get movies, they're going to decide for themselves, whether they're going to watch or not, and of course you're right as they decide whether they're going to watch television one thing or another, but we, the state of the budget, is detaching funds to put these movies into office. It must, of course, respect those resources and put a certain kind of restriction. Obligations, that's all there is to it, there must be a lower limit, a lower obligation. I wish we had enough movies or had that kind of retrospective so we could have all the great works that are screened to be 100%, but it can't be less than 30%. If you have a problem with production, so those cinemas don't stand, because there are years like there were two years ago, when only four films were made, so there won't be enough attractive films, then of course movies from those countries that also from their film funds helped or helped set up our distribution network, our cinema networks. This is the most natural way. Anything that comes up well, there is a way in Serbia to turn into its opposite. That's where we don't differ from other countries. I say once again, please, whenever you have, let's just not publicly suggest to people what they can do, of course they can find a way to make fun of it, but fortunately there are other members of the law that prevent such movies from showing up at all. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64803	Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64804	As for Article 25, it is another obligation imposed on cinemas. Honestly, I'm not quite sure if a serious analysis has been made of how much this obligation will cost cinemas when it comes to the obligation to sell movie tickets on a computer and that data on the number of tickets sold for each individual film shown to be recorded at the electronic information centre of Serbia's film centre. A fairly vague reason why this is so important is at least as far as SNS Film Centre Serbia is concerned. I did not recognize in the law that the number of tickets sold depends on the financing or co-financing of certain projects and that some re-percussion is withdrawn if the quality or interest of the audience is not sufficient, some of the funds may not be sufficiently quality or effectively invested and the unrecognizable reason why this is necessary. If you, Minister, don't have an explanation, I'd be happy to see why this institute is so important to cinematography. Also, the fact is, this requires some expenses. The question arises that given our budget, whether this is a rational spending of these funds, whether this is essentially not just one bureaucratic obstacle when it comes to cinematography, does it in any way not mean that it affects the freedom of entrepreneurship and only complicates this whole process. That's what interfered with the SNS when she filed this amendment. If there is indeed some valid reason, I did not recognize it, and of course we are ready to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64805	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64806	I owe you a notice. You're right. This is a separate or apart room, seeing as we're using each other today. This is a small joke with a member of the people who spoke about the beauty of Serbian language and the intensity to make it happen. So it's a joke. This is the standard record that exists in the world, like the VAT system. So you get the exact information, you pour all the data into one place, and that's how a single member is actually. You're right, it's not an integral part of these other members that regulates the field of filmmaking, distribution, etc., but it's important to find it in this law because it's simply a civilization achievement that allows adequate recording and monitoring and reducing the various marketing abuses around visitors or not charging tickets, which again has a repercussion in a whole series of competitions that will be called by the Serbian film centre, which may take into account the number of previous video authors. It's just that we have data that's neutral, which is correct. It doesn't require except, like, the introduction of fiscal registers, so it requires expenses, in fact, it requires here once and for all. So it's not about the burdens that would prevent someone from showing movies, but it allows everyone to have unique data. That was the basic intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64807	Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted the title above Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The word is Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64808	Mr. Minister, I'm still going to do it for the viewers who are watching this transmission to read Article 24. "the cinemas that have more than 30% of total hours of projections of domestic and European cinematographic works on their regular annual programme can exercise the right to stimulate the programme and modernise the conditions for showing etc." Mr. Chairman and Mr. Minister, please tell me what happened to the fate of MP Gordana Comic's amendment, so I know if I should withdraw my amendment. Please let me get that explanation. We first heard that the government had accepted the amendment, and then we heard that Mrs. Comic was withdrawing her amendment, so I was wondering if it was foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, whether it was possible for the Government to accept the amendment and the MP to withdraw his amendment during the debate. I need to know to know whether to withdraw my amendment or defend it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64809	The impact of the other amendments on your decision absolutely does not matter at this time, whether you withdraw the amendment or not, it is up to you alone. The People's Messenger is authorized to withdraw him and not withdraw him.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64810	Mr. Minister, you haven't heard, you've spoken, I justify it, but I am counting on your goodwill to know if I'm going to withdraw the amendment to Article 26. I need to know what's going on with Mrs. Gordana Comic's amendment. First we heard and here it says the government accepts the amendment and just before we heard Mrs. Comic withdraws her amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64811	What member do you mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64812	Article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64813	On Article 18, Mrs Comic has not submitted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64814	Article 19, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64815	The amendment to Article 19, submitted by Mrs Gordana Komic, the government and the Committee on Culture and Information, adopted. That amendment cannot be withdrawn. I don't want to talk about it anymore. Your will is whether or not you'll withdraw your amendment. I can't influence that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64816	Obviously, you and I both know the answer. This was important to me because of the citizens watching this transmission. Article 26 speaks of the protection of minors, the ban on inciting discrimination, violence and insult of human dignity in movies that appear in our cinemas. We of the SRS agree with this particular. We believe that protection measures must be more rigorous, measures to protect against violence not only when it comes to showing movies in movies but even more on television. We also believe that these films should also protect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, sovereignty, national feelings of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so we have submitted the next amendment. I'll read it. He's self-explanatory enough. We suggest banning and recording and publicly showing a film piece whose contents deny or question the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, demeaning or insulting national feelings, identity and tradition of the Serb people and national minorities living in Serbia, prompting violence, hatred on a racial, religious or national basis or having difficulty jeopardising the physical, mental or moral development of minors. As you can see, we of the SRS take care not only of the interest of the Serb people, but of the interest of members of all national minorities and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64817	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64818	Thank you for reading the amendment, so it's clear to everyone now. These are values protected by the Constitution, by Criminal Law, so they are undeniable and there is no reason why they are further placed in this kind of law. What matters to the legal system is that it is unique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64819	The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. There's no answer for word. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information have accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The word is Miss Jovanovic Natasa.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64820	What's the remaining time?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64821	Three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64822	Thank you. There is an unacceptable explanation for not accepting the amendment of counterpart Žutić. In fact, this is an explanation that you gave and now you have made it possible, Minister Markovic, to be a member of the 6th Mr. Marić, because you have now said what is in the Constitution did not need to be included in this law. That's not true at all, because you've done it about how it suits you. If you carefully look at Article 27 and take the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you will see in paragraph 1 that you have incorporated certain provisions of the Constitution in this first position. Is it true? Yes, it is. Here, now to read to you, it's against placing on the market, publicly showing a cinematographic piece that advocates or promotes discrimination, it's also a constitutional provision, hate or violence against a person or a group of persons because of their belonging and non-distribution to some race, religion, nation, ethnic group, sex, for all other things. Mr. Markovic, when Dr. Žutic reacted and he also wanted to, and that's Article 5. The Constitution, i.e. the preamble of the Constitution itself, speaks of anti-state and anti-Serb action, anti-state action is a betrayal and sale of KIM. Right? And you can't put that on the market. And if it is in the Constitution, as these individuals stand, so as article 79 stands, you pulled out of article 79 of what I read to you in part, why did you not accept the amendment of your colleague, Žutić, who, in a ambiguous way, obliges everyone not to do so? What's with the double arches? At first, I guess the most important thing to you is to protect the state, territorial sovereignty, and nobody does anything like that. You were president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when some MPs, of course not from the SRS, said in their inspiration that they were saying something that was contrary to constitutional provisions, and then, what our people said, bit the tongue. But then, in time, you warned that someone not to say such things. It is now part of a newer parliamentary history. But then how could you skip something like this and not accept the amendment? Your only argument is that it stands in the Constitution and is defined by the Criminal Law. It was no harm at all, Mr. Markovic, it was even useful, and it is not too late for you to accept this amendment by fellow Yellows. What is not forbidden by this I will conclude, Mr. Novakovic, for today our presentation on amendments, to promote and to put on the market, that is, to make films, is so the moral sunflower of one person. Especially through history were such, but this is in modern Serbian history one truly the greatest example of one man's moral sonnet and his other who is his president is also like that. I'll take this opportunity to welcome all those future directors who can, I'll finish my colleague, and you can take a look... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Mr. Predrag Popovic's new book on the moral portrait of Alexander Vukic makes the film. I've got ten more seconds. Don't steal my time. You are a man who is correct, you are not Gordana Komic. (President: Yes, but without advertising future scenarios. )......................................................................................................... Because the film would speak in a vivid way of talking about someone who turned from a Serbian nationalist to Eurofanatics and thus showed how immoral he is. So I'm calling all those...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64823	The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment that Mrs Gordana Komic submitted to article 33 was also withdrawn at this session, which can be confirmed by the insight into the stenogram. The 34th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Fa Tomic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. For a word in both cases, no one's answering. National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Mr Popovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64824	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 35. The proposal for a law on cinematography, which reads: "six months" is replaced by the words "three months". In my explanation for the submission of the amendment, I wrote that the proposed deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts is too long and should be reduced. In its reasons for not accepting the amendments, the amendment is not accepted because the proposed deadline set out in Article 35. The draft law is more appropriate for the adoption of sublegal acts. That's no reason. Based on what parameters did you determine that the deadline you suggested was more appropriate than the deadline I suggested? It is your duty to reject the amendments submitted by the members of the SRS. Film workers also have 12 months to comply with their dealings with the law. If the deadline for making sublegal acts remains six months, it means that film workers will only remain six months to comply with this law, because they can't do it either before they get sublegals. You and I both know that's not enough. In order not to get into a situation where, in nine months or a year, we have submitted new amendments and additions to this deadline extension law, I suggest you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-21-0.u64825	The 36th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Fa Tomic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. This concludes the search on all amendments, so I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you for your cooperation. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 points per agenda, which is the turn of discussion in detail. Thank you.
