ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50474	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of a proposal from the SRS and LDP parliamentary groups, and in accordance with Article 209. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set out Thursday, February 24, 2011, starting at 10.00 p.m. as the Day for Answering Parliamentary Questions on Current Issues. Current topics on which individual ministers and other government officials will answer parliamentary questions are: 1. DEFINITION OF THE POLICIES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE AUTONOMAL COUNTRY OF COSOVA AND METOCHI IN THE CONTECTION OF THE MARTIA REPORT, THE PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE (spECTED by the SRS Parliamentary Group, who asked that the parliamentary issues related to this topic be answered by Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy and President of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague Tribunal, Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, and Vuk Jeremic, Minister of Foreign Affairs); 2. JOBS – PROBLEMS IN THE GOVERNMENT AND TRANSFORMATION OF PUBLIC TERMS (sponsored by the LDP parliamentary group and asked for parliamentary questions related to this topic to be answered by Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister for Infrastructure, Petar Skundric, Minister of Mining and Energy, Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services, and Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society). Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to how to ask parliamentary questions concerning the current topic: – The right to ask questions shall be given to all MPs, and that: the first question shall be asked by the representative of the current subject, then the Presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, starting from the representatives of the least-numbered groups, to the largest parliamentary groups and MPs according to the applications, and until the total time for asking questions and giving answers. The MPs shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a request to ask questions in writing until the start of the reply and, orally, during the duration of the answer. The MP may ask up to three questions (Article 213). Rules of Procedure); – Answering parliamentary questions may take the longest 180 minutes and shall be carried out regardless of the number of Members present in the hall (Article 212). Rules of Procedure); – The time within which the MP orally asks the question shall be the longest three minutes, and the answer to that question shall be five minutes. After answering, the MP who has asked the question can ask two more questions, for a total duration of up to two minutes, and the answer to these questions may take up to five minutes. After that, other MPs have the right to ask questions, according to the order of applications (Article 214. Rules of Procedure); – In the course of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly, by not allowing replicas and references to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure (Article 216. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice and an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50475	Madam President, I would like to ask a question for the Prime Minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic. The deadlines for building Corridor 10 have been breached seven times already. The last deadline we heard about in the media is March. The other day, I was passing this very route and I noticed that the works were standing, so I'd like, on behalf of the DSS, to find out what the reasons for this long delay are. This was one of the main election promises, that Corridor 10 will be completed as soon as possible, and I don't think it's built more than 20 kilometers of this highway. Will the construction of Corridor 10 be some new Shkodra on Bojana, will we wait for it for decades? Because if we don't have travel infrastructure, and this is about road infrastructure, we've heard about infrastructure development many times, it was even one of the basic arguments for selling Telecom. And again, we're going to sell Telecom, we're going to build roads -- the current representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia said that. As for Telecom, we will discuss this in the second part of the session, but no shifts are made in the accelerated construction of the highway, and we all understand that this is how we employ both domestic construction and subcontractors. In parallel, immediately upon the arrival of this government, a concession contract for the construction of the Horgos-Pozega highway was destroyed, and it also did not move by one centimetre, and we come to absurdity that, when it comes to stopping something, the government was able to break the contract, they succeeded, but moving one centimeter in advance as far as the construction of other routes was concerned, failed. Also last year, there was talk of a new highway network through central Serbia, Mr. Prime Minister and other ministers said, but even projects for the past year have not been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50476	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50477	Thank you. I have to speak on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group, but believe me, I speak for the entire opposition, because we spent both yesterday and today trying to figure out what's going to happen today in the Assembly, in which way we'll be able to talk about the topics that we think are important or that we're sure are important, and yet it doesn't seem like any kind of thing, without the intention of insulting any of us, the circus. Regarding what is going to happen, I felt the need, first of all for the citizens, to clarify some things before today's session and also to refer a question to the people who lead the assembly (not just the president, but all the people in the presidency). So today we're going to have alternating three minutes, the MPs of the opposition, and we need, in fact, to determine one of the two topics that we need to talk about. We're not allowed to talk about both topics. The direct consequence will be media manipulation and abuse by the ruling majority. Let me give you a simple example of how we see the situation today. There are two topics on the agenda today. One is Dick Marty's report, and the other is completely unnaturally connected, transformation and the work of public enterprises. Both topics are crucial to the future of this country. My parliamentary group has applied for a special session on the work of public enterprises. We'll talk about it today. Then it will catch this "rikoshet minister" or "unaligned" Vuk Jeremic, who will say to RTS that this is his key evidence that we oppose the report by Dick Marty. It's the real situation we live in. I ask you: do we today have the right to use time twice, to speak once about our agenda point, to talk about the point of the agenda that the SRS has submitted, and I mean both the authorised representative and all the MPs, or are we not allowed to talk about one topic? In addition to the opposition MPs, the European Commission has recognised what these sessions look like. There are colleagues from the Committee on European Integration. Even in the report for the past and last year, the sessions, which are allegedly given the right to the opposition to discuss important topics, declared farce and shellfish without content, are because no serious conversation is possible. So we have three minutes to explain, as authorized promoters, why we think some topic is important and ask a question. Then the ministers will come to us, if they do us any good. They're going to answer something that hurts them the least, and we're going to have another minute or two to further explain it. It is, I speak for the citizens of this country, less time than I have, as an MP, to ask a regular parliamentary question Thursday. So, these sessions can't have any conclusions, they can't make any decisions and they only serve to give the government an argument that she can say that she's already talked about these topics. This is very important for the citizens to know. The only way and the only tool the opposition has to run for some topic is special sessions or sessions with a special topic in the National Assembly. As the government avoids talking about public enterprises, avoids talking about the economy, avoids talking about reconstruction, avoids talking about Dick Marty's report, avoids talking about all important topics through the Serbian Parliament's institution, then the opposition is obliged to run these topics. But even then, it's impossible for us to talk about all these topics, but we need to define ourselves between what we think is more important. Well, I'm telling you today, and it's a message to Vuk Jeremic, who is more important in Vietnam than the Serbian Parliament -- the LDP advocates a full investigation into the report by Dick Marty and the shift of Vuk Jeremic, "Rikoshet Minister, Unscheduled", whose actions led to Serbia and Kosovo's ties being weaker today than they have ever been in history. And we're telling you that we won't allow such abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50478	Thank you, Mr. Andric. The question is addressed to me, and I can answer it immediately. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if in one month we had one topic in the Day to answer parliamentary questions, it was just her, and if there were two topics, we had two topics, and ministers and prime ministers were responding for 180 minutes. This is a practice that has already been in this congregation. But today, in fact, it is dedicated to our communication with the Government in the most direct sense, since after this session, from 16:00 to 19.00 hours, we will also have the opportunity to ask ministers and government and prime ministers what we are interested in. If we estimate that 180 minutes of answers provided within the framework of the Day for Answering Parliamentary Questions on current topics are not enough, we will be able to use it later on anyway. So there will be plenty of time to get all the information from the ministers who are here today. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50479	Mr. Cvetkovic, at a time when you were a harmless SNS Prime Minister, he sent you an open letter (good time, I would say, and well-intentioned) and, since you probably didn't know, we informed you about the situation in the country and asked you a few questions to which we asked concrete answers. If you had acted then, you would probably have avoided much of the negative that has been happening in Serbia in the last month, and perhaps even in time, you would have done a job that is one of the prime jobs of the Prime Minister, which is that the government is leading as one team. Then we invited you to consider, as a man who is aware of the responsibility of the Serbian government for everything that is happening in Serbia, because the government is not only responsible but also responsible, to enable Serbian citizens to re-elected those they think will best represent them at a time when Serbia is in a crisis caused by the global crisis and further strengthened by your behaviour and the behaviour of a large number of your ministers, which you yourself have informed the public. We also warned you that the sale of Telecom in order to preserve social peace would be a great sin for those who built Telecom and for their children, who should benefit from what their fathers built. In particular, I warned you that it is said that Martin Schlaff continues to be able to buy anything he wants in Serbia. You may not be the direct link, but you know very well which minister, or vice president, is the direct link. Then we warned you not to do your job because you did not shed light on the murder of one participant in peaceful protests organised by the SRS, the late Rank Panic. Then we told you that there was a rough theft of the Boro additional local elections and that the open question was whether we could engage with your authority in any election competition. If you dared to steal the Bora election, who guarantees that you will not dare and dare steal the elections when they are on the territory of the Republic of Serbia? You responded to me as if we were living in two worlds. I don't think you give even EU representatives any vague and undefined answers like you replied to the SNS. After that, a lot of bad things happened, and I blame you. We organized the best rally ever organised in Serbia on February 5th, and it seems that this rally was missing that these noisers participated in it, to break some window, to start a car, so you might remember that the dissatisfaction of hundreds of thousands of citizens was very clearly shown. Mr. Cvetkovic, I was worried about how many people have kept quiet. There seems to be nothing left to worry about. Once again, as a well-intentioned man, as a man who is aware of the responsibility and the SNS, and aware that it is much easier to decide today about Serbia's fate than if something much worse happens today, I call on the citizens of Serbia, with their resignation, to go to the polls, to choose those who think they should lead them. Maybe it'll be you again, Mr. Cvetkovic. In Serbia, miracles have happened, they've happened before. If you were really in a position to form a government again, it could be classified into world wonders.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50480	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question will, in fact, be an introduction to asking parliamentary questions about the topic in question. Either I don't understand the Rules of Procedure well, or the Rules of Procedure in today's session are brutally broken. On 20 December 2010, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a proposal for a session of the National Assembly to be held on parliamentary issues related to the current topic we formulated – defining the policy of the Republic of Serbia towards the AP KIM in the context of the report by Dick Marty, rapporteur of the Council of Europe. On 4 February 2011, LDP colleagues submitted their proposal for an appointment of a session to address parliamentary issues related to the current topic they proposed regarding the functioning of public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. Then, meanwhile, something happened that the SRS parliamentary group considered extremely inadmissible. Two current topics have been merged in one session. Now MPs, either alternately or not know how to ask questions, on the one hand, about the Dick Marty report, which refers to trafficking of human organs in KIM and Albania, and then to ask questions related to the work of public enterprises in Serbia. I'm sorry, it's a scandal. It's something that literally laughs in the face of all Serbian victims and at all all of the KIM victims. It is simply incomprehensible that a Swiss has more hearing about Serbian national interests than we do. Article 209 The Rules of Procedure are quite clear: 'The President of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Parliament Group', therefore, I ask you to pay attention to the diction of this member, who speaks exclusively in a single one, 'at least once a month determines the day when individual ministers in the Government will answer parliamentary questions concerning an actual topic'. Not with themes, but with the topic. Article 211 of Item 2: "If a number of draft parliamentary groups have been tabled, the President of the National Assembly shall determine the order of the topics according to the time of arrival of the orderly proposals". It does not say anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that a session asking parliamentary questions concerning the current topic is determined only once during the month, but at least once. So he can do it more than once. Our question is - why are they not scheduled in January, or in February, or in March two special sessions, at which MPs will first ask parliamentary questions regarding the proposal first arrived at the National Assembly, which is the proposal of the SRS parliamentary group, and then a new session, which will raise parliamentary questions regarding the current topic proposed by LDP MPs? Two topics have now been accumulated here – otherwise, they have no connection to each other – in one session. The Rules of Procedure, according to the SRS, were brutally violated. And not only was the norm of the Rules of Procedure broken, I couldn't really expect that such an important topic, on which the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe declared itself a month before the Republic of Serbia, would be ended on the sidelines of social events and we would experience that today MPs are asking little questions about the trafficking of human organs, and little about how the boards of directors work and how much the salaries are. It has nothing to do with each other. Yesterday I said, and Article 211 of attitude 2 confirms that there is a principle right – the one who does the first thing must have some championship. On 20 December, we tabled a proposal to ask parliamentary questions, and I guess our theme had a special session to be held at which ministers would answer parliamentary questions first on the subject we proposed, and after that... (President: Time. You already have an advantage on behalf of those who suggested the topic. You may proceed, but I'm measuring a new time for you. ) Here, if I may conclude, just one question, Mrs Djukić Dejanović – on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure has been accumulated two topics? Where does it say anything like that is possible?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50482	Mr. Martinovic, I should actually repeat everything I have already answered to Mr. Ivan Andric. And you had the same comment yesterday, and I gave you an explanation, so we won't waste any more time. First, I'd like to inform you that today, due to the government's already scheduled session, we'll be working until 13:45, then the ministers and the government will be back at 1600 hours to finish this part of the topic, and behind that we have three hours that will be like the session started at 1600 hours. So, we're gonna honor the timelines, they're just gonna be a little shifty, and obviously we're gonna finish something later tonight, not at 19.00. We're moving on to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50483	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, gentlemen from the government, at the end of last year, the world went through the information that the rapporteur of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Swiss Dick Marti, otherwise the doctor of legal science, reported to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that something had not happened in Nazi concentration camps during World War II, which is that Serbs, but also others who were opponents of the Kosovo Liberation Army and Hashim Thaci, were first killed, and that they were first removed from vital organs, primarily heart, liver and kidneys, in order to be sold on the black market of these vital human organs. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a report a month ago by Dick Marty, which contains not only a series of indictments at the expense of Hashim Thaci and his terrorist gang, but also at the expense of NATO, the EU and the United States. The report by Dick Marty, among other things, said top US, EU and NATO officials had information that the KLA was not an army fighting for the freedom of the Albanian people in KIM, but a group of armed people who smuggled not only human organs, but also drugs, weapons, alcohol. The report further states that during the OVK SRJ aggression, the report said, it was NATO's ally and that, after the Serb military and police withdrew from KIM in June 1999, representatives of the international community in Kosovo and that they knew who they were dealing with and what was happening in KIM after the withdrawal of Serbian security forces. What casts a truly huge stain on the work of an institution that is completely contrary to international law is the UN tribunal, it is the fact that Dick Marty's report shows that representatives of The Hague tribunal, together with representatives of the Unmik, were in KIM and Albania in February 2004, where they were located a famous "yellow house", that they conducted some tests that were very controversial from the forensic point of view... (President: Time. Three minutes. ) So, the question is: why are the state authorities silent about all this, whether the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will talk to Hashim Thaci about anything, given the Dick Marty report and whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a clear platform that the state authorities and which institutions should conduct an investigation into trade in human organs in KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50484	I will ask the MPs first to ask questions, and then they argue and explain the essence of the question, because you're putting me in a position to interrupt you before you ask the question. So I would ask the MPs first to ask a question. Mr. Rasim Ljajic gives the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50485	I think the most important thing is that in this assembly, and I think Mr Andric just said that, there is no parliamentary group or MP who is not in the position of getting this whole case a final court epilogue. I think we've done so far that this whole thing gets lighted up as soon as possible, that all events are fully pictured in a way to establish full truth and to satisfy justice. I fear the politicisation of this whole case, which Serbia absolutely does not need. I'm afraid of daily politics in all of this, which is also unnecessary to anyone, and it won't do anyone any good, and now there are two things left to do – one in diplomacy, and the other in the domain of pure law. When I say "in diplomacy", I mean first of all, the fact that we should try to provide support to the UN for the formation of an ad hoc mechanism that will allow this whole thing to get a court finale. To remind you that this will not be easy at all, because the main countries – the United States, Germany, Great Britain, France – have already declared themselves against this ad hoc mechanism, for two reasons. One is of a political nature, and the other is of financial nature, given that the ad hoc mechanism should receive mandate, jurisdiction and significant financial resources for its work. Secondly, what's in the domain of law is that we now transfer this whole thing to that field, to show once again that this is not an excuse for us not to start negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina and that Serbia has the greatest interest in lighting up the fate of 524 missing persons in Kosovo. There are other options in the scope when we talk about processing and legal matters of the whole story. The theoretical possibility is that The Hague tribunal is given a new mandate, a new jurisdiction, but it is also not realistic, given the tribunal's exit strategy and the fact that a residual mechanism has already been adopted and that, practically, since 2014, these resident mechanisms will assume the tribunal's jurisdiction. The third option, which could also be acceptable for Serbia, is so-called. Eulex plus. It means that EULEX, with its capacity on the ground, takes over the process of further processing, but that an independent international prosecutor is also under investigation. The fourth, minimalist, position in which these main UN member states, and the EU, insist, is that EULEX, practically, assumes the role of the mechanism with its capacities. We're against it, for two reasons. First of all, because Eulex does not have the authority to conduct investigations in Albania, and the second reason is that Eulex does not have the possibility to protect witnesses, which Dick Marti also stressed. Therefore, I think that today's debate can only once again confirm the full agreement of all of us on these issues, that there is almost no difference there and cannot be. It wouldn't be necessary to present some dissonant tones on this issue right now. These are the options that we have at our disposal and we need cold heads to get into this whole process, with the desire to get the most out, to get the whole thing out of here as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50486	Mr. Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50487	Mr. Ljajic, I'm not happy with your answer. In the list of bodies that could conduct an investigation into what was going on about human organ trafficking, you listed all the organs, just didn't mention the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. The SRS suggests that the official position of the Republic of Serbia, related to the investigation into trade in human organs in KIM, be next – the investigation should be carried out by the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia in co-operation with the judicial authorities of the Republic of Albania, as human organs have, above all, taken place on the territory of Albania. If Albania refuses to conduct an investigation into human organs trafficking, the Republic of Serbia must insist that the UN put pressure on the Republic of Albania as a member of the UN to conduct the investigation. This is also the obligation of the Republic of Albania to comply with the Charter of the UN, and ultimately with the elemental civilization, or moral obligation. As for how the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia reacted, Mr Ljajic, Dick Marti said that. Here's what he says: "Serbian authorities have reacted, although with a considerable delay, but so far they have not achieved more significant results. "Here's what it says about your Hague tribunal: "The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia has, for its part, carried out a research mission at the place of the infamous "yellow houses", although the procedure was rather superficial and with professional standards that are a little confusing. "And here's what Mr. Dick Marty said about your Eulex, who came to KIM at the invitation of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic: "The expectations were in vain. There have been many announcements and promises to conduct an investigation, but tangible results still need to be seen. It's a typical Nazim Blaze case, which is publicly... '"
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50488	Time. The word has a prime minister. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50489	Dear People's MPs and honourable MPs, regarding the question you asked, I would like to confirm once again that we are meeting here with one criminal activity, which we must not use in politicization, but we must fight to protect all victims in this criminal act. Of course, the biggest victims were citizens of Serbian nationality, but it should be borne in mind that the victims were also citizens of other nationalities, not only Serbian ones. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done and will do is fight precisely for the establishment of a system in which all guilty will have to answer, that guilt is individualised and that all victims will support it. You heard a brief explanation that Minister Ljajic said. We also have a series of other data, which we're going to present, regarding questions. What I want to say in particular is actually an answer to your question about who's supposed to lead the investigation. The essence of the investigation problem is not whether this or that investigating body supports one or the other side, whether it is dependent or independent, but whether it has authority and the right to explore more than one or more countries. You mentioned Serbia and Albania, which are certainly countries where an investigation needs to be done, however, it should not be forgotten that these bodies have been sold out of these territories, or beyond those territories, and even there are indications that they have been sold beyond the European continent. Therefore, an investigation should be carried out by an authority which will be able and entitled to be in contact with all those countries and to investigate. We have nothing against the engagement of Eulex, nor do we think that he will be engaged negatively in the whole thing, but our position is that this mechanism that we're talking about would have to have powers that EULEX doesn't have, and in that context, talks are being held. It seems to me that it has been widely accepted that it is necessary to conduct a detailed and impartial investigation. The government of the Republic of Serbia will insist on obtaining an appropriate mechanism that will be acceptable and guaranteeing that the investigation is carried out competently, impartially and to the end. Be assured that the investigative bodies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will also actively participate in what they have already done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50490	National MP Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50491	The second issue that is important, may the victims forgive you, is the subject of public enterprises. So that's what public enterprises call colloquial and there are several types of these companies. In order for citizens to understand what the problem is, I will say that at this point in Serbia there are about 700 (there is not even an exact number that we could determine), that they are about 50% of the Serbian economy (when the money that is going through them is viewed) and that they make them between 150 and 200 000 employees (it is hard to tell which number is being done). The situation in these public enterprises is more than catastrophic. What everyone knows, probably, is that they represent, in a banal sense, party prey. There have been attempts during the government of Zoran Djindjic, and the attempt later, immediately in 2004, has been interrupted, which is that the governance structure of these companies is being chosen in public competitions. Later, the Law on Public Enterprises, but also all other laws under which these companies operate, introduced a completely different practice. So, the feudal divisions between the parties, where the parties through a coalition contract decide who will run the companies. The direct result is the catastrophic productivity of these companies. They're doing the worst they can. You don't know the owner, the management structure isn't stimulated to worry about long-term business, it's just taking care of personal and party interests. Public enterprises are also huge losers. It is estimated that in January of last year, the cumulative debt of all public enterprises was around four billion euros. They're also an indifference generator. Debts are linked to each other from which these companies are trying, such as EPS or Serbiagas, to come out by increasing the total price of these products, despite the fact that they are the main debtors of these companies precisely other public enterprises. Also, there are subsidies, direct and indirect. I don't have time, but look how funny this is. There is no such thing as control over the work of these companies. The DRI will be conducting one or two controls for the first time this year. My question is very clear – will the announced reconstruction of the government mandate or prime minister suggest to its coalition partners that such feudal governance of public enterprises be stopped, that no "Collubres" and the abuses that exist in any other public enterprise, will coalition agreements be stopped between parties in power, will the right of the parties in power be abolished to appoint boards and directors of public enterprises, and in general, how will the relationship to public enterprises change?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50492	Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50493	Dear People's MP, thank you for opening the question that really matters. I want to explain the number you mentioned about the number of public enterprises. It is relatively accurate, but it primarily refers to public enterprises located at the local level. So these are, in fact, public utility companies, which really have hundreds. When it comes to public enterprises that are related to the republican level, you have a limited number of enterprises. In answer, I would refer too much to these companies, and as far as these others are concerned, we can talk about it, but there's a slightly different situation here in a certain sense. So when it comes to public enterprises that are at a republican level, these are these big systems. As you know, when it comes to this government, there has been a major and key shift towards the introduction of competition in these sectors and in the direction, practically, of withdrawals from the management structures of these companies. I would like to give an example of NIS, which was sold and thus the state retreated and he stopped being prey. We can now interpret differently whether the sale was successful, unsuccessful, etc., there are different opinions, but certainly the act itself has led to the fact that NIS has been removed from the agenda of criticism that the state sees it as something that is prey, where it will employ its personnel. We are also now in the Telecom sales process, for which, as you know, and even among you here there are major opposition to whether or not it should be sold, but what is essential is that it is not only about money here, but it is also about how it is managed by these companies and it is practically related to the fact that through a new governance culture and structure, if you want to, these companies would be managed differently. As far as NIS is concerned, it is up to it, after the transaction, to open on the stock market and that will allow management to approach in a different way. Since there will be a lot of words about this, I would just like to mention that idea not to delegate representatives of the state to the boards of directors. What I'm saying is that this would be an extremely strange activity, even from the owner's point of view, where the owner, who is a state, would give up delegations to his representatives. I don't know who would then delegate them to and on whose behalf and what they would do to those boards of directors. So it seems to me that here we have a different view of how property is protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50494	You don't have any other questions? You have the right to two questions for up to two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50495	I was expecting it, but it's an impossible serious debate. It's amazing that you chose NIS as an example of how advanced this government is. It is a company that has been sold against the constitution, against the law, out of the tender, out of the privatisation system, by agreement between the two parties, at a much lower price, etc. Of course, it's not true that your interpretation that we stand up against the ownership role of the state in companies where it must exist, but the ownership role is achieved in another way. These companies are party prey. Tell us who are members of the Board of Directors of NIS, which you mentioned, on behalf of the State. What exactly has qualified these people to be? Is there a public competition as in Western states when state-owned enterprises exist? Is there a public service for these people? Is there a body? Is there a control that monitors the work of these people? Is there, in the end, a parliamentary debate on the decisions they make? And what's EPS? What about the Serbs? What about RTB "Bor"? What about Kolubara, where 150m euros in two years went missing in just one segment of the company's business? What about hundreds of others? You said this number was 700 for public enterprises on a local level. That's right. And they're being destroyed by these ten or fifteen or nine, and nobody knows how many there are. What about "Yat"? How many subsidies were given to Jatu, the Railways of Serbia, any of these companies, without the Assembly ever getting a clear plan of what these subsidies are being spent on and from the budget? In the end, you came for a counter-guarantee for a big loan. Please answer the question of who is and why on behalf of the State is on the Board of Directors of NIS, for example, which you put as a topic yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50496	Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50497	First of all, I'd like to tell you that you probably weren't present at the session where the law was passed on the basis of which the privatisation of NIS was made, so the qualification that it was illegal was completely incorrect. You may not have voted for that law, but that law was brought here in the Assembly and privatisation was carried out on that basis. When it comes to the fact that significant subsidies are invested in "Jat" and "The Railway", I would like to say that very significant subsidies are directly invested in the Railway and in "Jat" slightly less, but are provided with guarantees for loans for the renewal of the fleet. I have to say that we are here as Government, or if you will, I personally advocate finding a strategic partner for Jat. You know that we announced the tender a year and a few days ago, that tender was unsuccessful and we were in a situation that we were either bankrupt and we were left without an air carrier or we were trying to come up with a different strategy, because the previous strategy proved unsuccessful. We, of course, have come out with a new strategy and look to the future with the hope that it will be more successful and that we will privatise the "Yat". So we're not looking at Jat as anybody's prey, but we're looking at it as one company that will bear the name of our domestic airliner, have a strategic partner and make money and be able to live without subsidies. That is, therefore, our goal and that is the strategy we are implementing. When it comes to Railways, I have to say it's the Railway, about reforms, one of the most retarded public enterprises. So that's where the reforms were most delayed. I would say that, in fact, reforms in a more serious sense have been launched in the last year and a half to two years, where the concept, the strategy is made, and we are now about to go in the direction of certain changes, organisational changes in the Railways, and I hope that those in the years ahead will give us some results. The processes I'm talking about are, unfortunately, processes that last. It's a transition, which is painful and that can't be over in a year or two, but must be kept working on it. So I went back and mentioned that two sectors are already open. We're left with more, practically, EPS and Railways. We're working on it. If you want to help us with the Railways or otherwise, we are prepared to discuss it with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50498	The word is from the People's MP Esad Djudjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50499	Dear Presidents, respected prime minister and ministers, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, I must begin by saying that the Bosniak List strongly supports the investigation into the report by Dick Marty, as well as the lighting and processing of all those responsible for crimes in the Balkans area. On this subject, I would ask you, Mrs Malovic, a specific question – what has been done so far to enlighten and prosecute those responsible for war crimes committed in Sandzak over the Bosniak population from 1992 to 1995? I'm going to briefly remind you and the public of just a few drastic cases, which I sent you yesterday in a letter. I will draw only a few of the most difficult cases, from the murder of Rama Berb in the village of Severin, in the municipality of Prboj, on 26 August 1992, over the arson of five Bosniak houses on the same day, which meant, in fact, the beginning of a wide action of burning and destroying Bosniak villages along the border from BiH, and by 1995, 185 houses and a large number of auxiliary facilities were destroyed, and through the famous kidnapping in North of October 22, 1992 and, of course, to the most famous kidnapping in Strpec, whose 18th anniversary is just these days ending. Let me remind you briefly that 19 passengers, 18 Bosniaks and one Croat were kidnapped on the occasion. The passengers were taken to Visegrad, where they were liquidated. For this crime, in the Greater Court in the White Pole, Montenegro, was sentenced to 15 years in the Nebojsa Ranisavljevic prison from Despotovac, Serbia, and in Serbia no one has ever been prosecuted for the crime, although 18 of them are Serbia's nine citizens. This and other crimes against the Bosniak population during this tragic period are witnessed by research and data from the Fund for Humanitarian Law from Belgrade, the Sandzak Committee for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms from Novi Pazar, the Committee for the Protection of Human Rights and the humanitarian activity from Priboj, as well as many other domestic and international reports. I'm asking you now for an oral response, and certainly, based on the letter I sent you, I'm asking for an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50500	Thank you. Mrs. Malovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for asking, although it is not about the topic on the agenda today. I got your question yesterday, I sent it to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and, after receiving an answer from the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, you'll get a sure answer from both the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, unbound for this, I want to assure you, and not only me, but also the results of the War Crimes Prosecutor's work during all these years, since 2003, when it was formed, and on this occasion, that it has never been taken into account by the victims or the perpetrators of crimes, war crimes and other monstrous acts in connection with it, and that wherever adequate evidence existed, it has gone to trial. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be about the question you asked. If you have any knowledge or anything that might support the prosecution's work on war crimes, I invite you to deliver it. Of course, I can't interfere with the work of any judicial authority, but within my jurisdiction, I will certainly provide all-out support on my part to investigate war crimes. They don't get old. Therefore, it is the obligation of all of us to make a contribution to this. You'll get an answer in writing to the question you've asked me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50502	Mr. Esad Dwarf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50503	I thank you for your reply, and I expect a written answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50504	People's MP Velimir Ilic has a word, but he's not here. Bojan Djuric is not here either. Nenad Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50505	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, the chairman, the DSS strongly opposes the announced sale of Telecom. We think Telecom has enormous importance for the Serbian economy, especially for the telecommunications infrastructure sector, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the area, whose main client, buyer of their services, programmes and goods is Telecom. I'll elaborate around Telecom as much as they allow me these three minutes, but I'd like to ask you a question right now. I found out, and I would like the prime minister to give me a concrete answer whether it is true, that Telecom increased salaries for employees in December by 10% and in January by 15%. If that's true, I don't think it's moral at this point, because there's no increase in salaries for teachers, teachers, doctors, or police officers, and there's no increase in salaries in other public enterprises, let's say, "Electroprivred," and there's an increase in salaries in Telecom. I would only ask a very concrete answer – is it true or not? As for the further sale of Telecom, I think Serbia also has extraordinary electric engineers and telecommunications. Belgrade University and other universities that have electrical engineering colleges give truly personnel working in, practically, all telecommunications companies in the world, and in the Silicon Valley and in leading European telecommunications companies. Even, I must say, in some of the world's largest telecommunications companies, engineers who finished Belgrade University in leading scientific research. By selling Telecom (and that's logical, we can't ban anyone, that's how capital works, that's why capital works) scientific research will certainly be transferred to a country that will buy Telecom. Today, China is the largest producer for American telecommunications companies, Germany, etc., but scientific research is still based both in America and Germany. In this way, if Telecom sold, we would make an unprecedented bad move for future intellectuals, for future scientific research staff, especially in the field of telecommunications. Please just a quick answer to the pay question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50506	Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50507	As for the sale of Telecom, there have already been different attitudes here, and I would like to say that they really vary from any public company being prey and that it should be removed from the state influence as soon as possible, to the notion that it should not be sold by any means, so to the position we have now heard, that it should not be sold at all. The government's position is that Telecom should not be sold out by the market, but that it should be sold, because right after the sale of Telecom, basic assumptions are created that development can be monitored and that, instead of extracting dividends, as we have done so far, dividends, i.e. profits, can be invested in development and through investment in development, provide the best services to our citizens and monitor all world trends. Of course, I'm firmly convinced that all the scientific potential we have, which you yourself said was the world's top, has no reason to fear being hired by Telecom, no matter who owns it. Here are the problems of whether some who may not be good enough to lose some jobs, which may be pure speculation, but I share the opinion that we have really high-quality people at the world top and I really don't see why they would be left out of the process. As for the salary at Telecom, I have to tell you I'm not really familiar. I can ask around, so I'll tell you how the wages are moving, but I can certainly tell you, as a policy, that I don't think public enterprises should have different treatments, and that's just maybe one of the reasons why they need to sell Telecom, because as long as you keep your salaries below some level that is competitive, and you've opened the market for the entry of other competitors (as you know, we've opened up the market and fixed telephony for Telenor, which in a year, two, three will become a very serious player and in fixed telephony), you can't have a state-owned company that can resist that competition. So, as far as this particular question is concerned, I'll ask around, and I'll give you the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50508	Mr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50509	Thank you, Mr. President. I would only ask, if possible, not in writing. I think that one phone call is enough, so that in the follow-up session you inform the MPs about whether in Telecom in December they increased their salaries by 10%, and in January by 15%, until it happened in no other public enterprise, nor in education, police, health care, etc. Please inform us during this session, because if you don't inform us, then these conversations don't make any sense at all. There is a normal civilised dialogue here, and we expect both MPs and government representatives to communicate in this way, because we think that the exchange of information can help both. I would only add that it is very important, as far as the decision is concerned, whether to sell Telecom, given that Telecom is also one of the largest sponsors of sports and culture in Serbia. I must add, I have analyzed the Deutsche Telekom donations and sponsorship in the environment from the moment they were owned by these companies in the environment and from the moment they came to power and, logically, Deutsche Telekom is not too interested in helping local sports or local culture in the countries where he bought these companies. It helps relatively, as much as it can, but of course it's his priority, probably, to do much more in Germany. And there's nothing wrong with that, that's logical, that's how all the companies do business, like some Serbian companies wouldn't be sure...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50510	Thank you. It's been two minutes. The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50511	I just wanted, if you'll excuse me, to briefly comment on what you just said, that the problem with selling is actually the problem with the future lack of sponsorship. I have to say that I didn't consider this element in thought, that it's so important to decide whether to sell Telecom or not, but now that you've said it, that element will be taken into account, so let's see what its weight is going to be compared to all the other elements in the decision-making process. At first glance, it seems to me that it is really so marginal and insignificant that it is not worth anything compared to everything that is obtained by entering a strategic partner into the sector and creating the sharp competition and creating the market that we need. On the other hand, I want to say that even after the sale, the state will have a very significant minority stake in Telecom and, based on that minority stake, it will be able to participate in certain decisions. Well, if that sponsorship is a key thing, we can also put it as one of the demands that it continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50512	MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50513	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister and members of the Government, firstly I must warn of the fact that not all the ministers we expected or invited to the session are present today. I believe that the president informed the prime minister of all demands and that his decision not to have some ministers here today, including Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic and Minister Jasna Matic, is very important because without her presence here, practically, one party of the ruling coalition is not represented politically. I see four parties here. You and your fellow ministers from the Democratic Party represent this party. Here are ministers (although they sit separately from you) from the SPS and, practically, two parties from Mr Rasim Ljajic. There is no party that practically controlled the entire economic sector in the government up until a few days ago. So I'm going to ask questions only to you, because I understand that you've now taken full charge of this economic sector. You've said some amazing things here. The first among them is that in the last year and a half some steps have been made seven miles in transformation and the way public enterprises function. For example, I have here a 2009 DRI report, which shows amazing data when it comes to spending money from privatisation funds. Virtually over nine billion dinars or 90m euros in the past few years have been spent from privatisation revenues to so-called. short-term loans that are recorded in the reports after a year as controversial claims and of course never come back. That 90m euros is practically a quarter, 25% of the total money, for which the NIS was so successfully sold at that session when LDP MPs, as you say, were not present. That, to remind you, was opposed by one of the biggest parties in your government. You know what the LDP thinks about DSS policy. And they were wrong about many things when they ran public enterprises, but I see here that they at least allocated two million euros from privatisation funds to the Ministry of Education in 2006. It's some kind of investment. The other 88m euros, which you spent alone or in some former coalitions on Jat Airways, Srbiagas, Serbia Railways, mines with underground exploitation, have been dropped. You have an incredible situation in 2009 to spend 12.5 billion dinars on railway subsidies, and then practically three salaries in that year to pay out of a budget fund to help the economy in terms of the economic crisis, a fund that is primarily intended for normal businesses, normal businesses, not these state giants, in which, for example, in the Railways of Serbia, the directors of high-ranking officials of the ruling party. Since you have avoided answering Mr. Andric's question regarding NIS, I will move on. I ask you -- what are the names of the parties and what are proposed by the directors of the following companies: "Jat Airways", "The Railways of Serbia", "Serbiagas", "Colubara", "Electroprivreda Serbia" and "The Roads of Serbia"? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50514	Mr. Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50515	Regarding your particular question, I will give my ministers my word because I really don't know these people by their name, what they're called. I don't know if they'll know, some of them probably will, but I just wanted to tell you two things that I think are important. Here we discussed the transformation of public enterprises, where, under transformation, I mean ownership transformation, state property sales and the bringing of a strategic partner, but also internal transformation, in terms of better organisation, efficiency, etc. If you called it a seven-mile step, I can agree that a really big step was taken at the time of this government. It's not enough, but compared to what was done in the previous period it's really big. What I don't think you understand very well is the idea to learn about the transformation of public enterprises from the DRI report. The DRI is an institution that is not at all engaged in a fundamental approach to transformation and at all enterprises, but looks at simply accounting whether money has been paid, not paid, etc. So I'm referring you to certain studies that were done on this subject, to see what was to be done and what was done, etc., and not to enter pure accounting, because you're not going to get any information from accounting. The second thing I wanted to say is that everything you say is true that huge subsidies are given to both the Railways and mines with underground exploitation, however, it's not a novelty, that so far there was no subsidy, so this government introduced it. On the contrary, this is what we inherited, and we are trying so hard to find a way for these companies to get fewer subsidies, but not by suspending their subsidies and leaving people without pay in a difficult situation anyway, but by improving their efficiency. That's the point and that's what it's all about. And I invite you, if you have any ideas here, to go out with her, and we've already given you certain programs, which I can let you know if you're interested in. Now, if you'll excuse me and if we have time, I'll give you my word... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50516	Minister Mrkonjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50517	I will answer with special satisfaction the question of Mr. MPs about who the people who operate public enterprises are. In the Ministry of Infrastructure are two public enterprises – "The Railways of Serbia" and "The Roads". Jat is a company of action, to remind you, Belgrade Airport is also a company of action. As for "Yat," V.D. The CEO is from the Yata himself, the man who spent his whole life in the Yata, according to which, expert. Before I said one more thing, which I often resent from my coalition partners – in the Ministry of Infrastructure, the principle of feudalization has never existed since I was a minister. You know that, I guess. All the former minister's assistants stayed. That's what I even resented. For the first time in the ministry, there was talk about the profession when I came for the minister. That's why I'm talking about it. There are no socialists in Serbia's Roads. At the Railways of Serbia, the director is an engineer with 30 years of training. These people have my full trust. In Belgrade Airport, there is also a man, regardless of the question, which has been at the airport for many years, professor and so on. Therefore, in the public enterprises and these societies you speak of, the Ministry of Infrastructure is the state of affairs. When we talk about the subsidies we're talking about right now, I have to say as a man who spent a long time on the railways, that everywhere in the world, rails, at least passenger traffic, are subsidized. The prime minister said -- a big step. What's the big step? The man who worked on the railroad, or me who worked on the railroad, so to speak, I don't like to talk about myself in the third person... We've started some reforms five times. Now we have made our first concept and are preparing these days to bring in the founding act of holding the company Željeznica, where the infrastructure will be separated, so on track from transport. In transport, we will have two companies, one dealing with the transport of passengers, which must also be subsidized, and the other with the transport of goods. And fourthly, a real estate organization owned by the Railways. It's a modern concept that we've been working on for years, but now I'm convinced that we're going to do it for the rest of the government, no matter who's a minister for me or if I stay in that place. It's a big step forward. No problem, we talk to the unions, and then everything will be defined. But I continue to argue, the railway must receive subsidies, at least in that part of the infrastructure. As far as passenger traffic is concerned, contracts will be made with local self-governments, so which has an interest in driving it, will drive it. A good example is Belgrade. Belgrade has raised the issue of railway and railway development precisely because Belgrade is fit to use what already exists from the facilities we have. For now, that's it. If there were any more questions, I'd still be answering.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50518	Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50519	Thank you first, Minister Mrkonjic, for this answer, which looks like some kind of political response. I'm not going to go into it any more, I understand that the SPS is not the party that has delegated its direct executives to public companies that control your ministry. I can accept that, but therefore I understand that the same rule does not apply to other parties, since the prime minister has not cited other examples for other public enterprises, but it does not matter. It's quite interesting, Mr. Cvetkovic, that you here are accusing the MPs in the Serbian Parliament of having reduced politics to accounting. I think that this manner of conduct was most common in the work of your government, especially in those situations where you personally and occasionally, the finance minister here explained both the budget and other financial laws above all at the level of accounting, not at the level of any political decisions or aspirations you want to make with that budget. I wasn't talking about bookkeeping. This is the source of data that shows that, in the last year, in 2009, in 2009, you spent 150m euros in privatisation through grants, or short-term loans, to be more accountingly precise, "Srbigas" for gas purchase. It is not normal for me from an economic and political point of view to sell a state-owned company, and that privatisation income is then invested in a one-time or short-term gas purchase during the winter season because this company, for various reasons, including poor and party management, is unable to function in a normal way, or is unable to function in a normal way because it pays by 30 or 40 per cent more gas import price than some EU countries that are allegedly not in such good political relations with Russia. The last question, I also asked Minister Skundric at a session of the Industry Committee, he said at one point that many public enterprises in 2010, especially those in his sector, functioned in a much better way, so they achieved profits – what is the profit according to your assessment?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50520	The Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50521	First, let me tell you that we didn't understand each other at all. I didn't accuse you of anything. Far from accusing you, rather than simply saying, because you're going about transformation and you said that transformation is bad and then that's what the DRI is talking about. I'm not accusing, I'm pointing out that the DRI is involved in bookkeeping, and the transformation is something much more serious and fundamental. I just said it, it's a fact without any accusation. On the contrary, I was pleased to hear your remarks, and with the utmost respect. I just told you, where you talked about these subsidies, I fully support you here. I wish we could say we wouldn't give, the Railways - zero. All of a sudden, all this money would appear to us as an opportunity to encourage, to help the poor, after all, but that's how it is, and I explained it. Please, there were no charges here, no bad intentions on my part. As for "Serbiagas", I would give the word to Minister Skundric, that he would give the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50522	If you allow me to answer your question briefly, "Srbigas" withdraws certain credit lines for gas purchases and is not gas purchased from privatisation funds. That's the first fact. Another fact – it is not true that we pay for gas 30% more expensive than other countries that acquire gas at the same source. That price is identical. If you want me to tell you what the price of gas for households and industry is, then only Romania has a lower price of gas because of the gas structure, because over 50% has its own gas production. We've had an increase in gas production in the last two years at around 15%. The price of domestic gas involved in the formation of the total price is half the price of Russian gas. So the price of gas that Srbigas pays to NIS is at a level (perhaps I'll make a mistake) of about 15 dinars. So it's about "Serbiagas." As for business, Srbigas didn't do business with his loss last year. It is expected that this year too, it will not deal with loss, regardless of the high disparity in the course and the price produced by the disparity of dollars and dinars. As far as NIS is concerned, I'm happy to find that, after a long time, NIS will have a business with significant profits. What does that mean, "with significant profits"? It will receive over 10 billion dinars or over 100m euros for 2010. The price of the product... (Tomislav Nikolic: Top in Europe. That's not true. (Tomislav Nikolic: So I'm lying? It's absolutely not true. I'll give you individual information. The lower price for a particular type of derivative in the region is only Bulgaria's Croatia. (Ivan Andric: both Bosnia and Montenegro.) ) Montenegro is gone, Slovenia is gone, neither is Greece. And you have to consider that our oil industry has been devastated and that there is a serious capital repair under way. All preconditions for the start of the installation of the hydrocracking plant, whose total value is about 400m euros, have been completed. The remont will end by the end of 2012 and then we will certainly be able to have more quality and cheaper fuel, although even now NIS is cheaper than "Mola" and "OMV" and "Lukoila" and other companies located on our market.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50523	MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50524	I'm glad Mr. Cvetkovic isn't here because these are questions for the Prime Minister, and he might think I'm talking to him. So, this opportunity that Serbia has after the report by Dick Marty may be given once in the history of the state and the people. We as a people and Serbia as a state bear a stamp of shame that we as a people are responsible for partially similar crimes. When it was necessary to completely destroy Slobodan Milosevic and the SPS, you reported to The Hague the location of mass graves and we became a monster to the world, and now, not wrangling, sit down and expect someone to finish your work. If any of you had written this report, you shouldn't have written it as well as Dick Marty wrote it. And what your relationship to this subject is, is also seen by the two topics you have drawn up, the subject of atrocities against Serbs with the subject of Serb crime. I can't believe that you could have put these two topics together, to ease what we Serbs as a people expect after all that Dick Marty's done, and it seems to me to be another Swiss man who still needs to build a monument for life. True, the first one was a doctor... Please let me speak because I don't interrupt anyone while he's talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50525	Mr. Nikolic, you just commented. I'm trying to have the same archaic. The minister spoke, and you commented. I ask all MPs to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50526	Since this session is the relationship of ministers and MPs, I allow ministers to comment on what I say. So this is not a relationship between MPs, especially not a relationship between me that would condemn these crimes and those who are getting to me for it, so the question is, what is their wish?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50527	You won't be able to ask the question I gave you my word for.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50528	I think I asked a question. I am interested in whether the government would propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to declare itself on the resolution adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a team before it was seen in Strasbourg that the MPs of individual states were discussing by attacking Dick Marty's report and defending certain figures from those countries. For example, French representative because of Kushner, a representative of Finland because of Ahtisaari, all Albanians from all European countries spoke against Dick Marty's report. The only thing left to find out what we Serbs think about that report.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50529	Time. The Prime Minister wants to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50530	I appreciate the question. I would also like to say that all, literally, all of the government's representatives of any level in all of the acts spoke positively about this report and took a position that they had taken in earlier cases, which is that the case must be investigated in detail and impartially. We have also advocated the view that crimes are individualised and that this does not apply to the entire Albanian people, as we have also advocated that the crimes committed by individual representatives of our people do not apply to the entire Serbian people. We are very active when it comes to Dick Martin's report on what should be the follow-up to this report, and you've already had a chance to hear globally about what actions have been taken. I would like to point out once again that we are in favour of a mechanism that would have an international transparency for research at all levels. We are not against the active role of Eulex, but we are afraid that Eulex does not have the mandate to investigate in other countries' territories. In this context, we have already launched the initiative at the UN. Our foreign minister spoke on the subject. It is still an intensive matter, and we hope that some solution will be found in the period ahead of us that will go in the direction of what I was talking about. Of course, there is a problem with witness protection, which is also on the table and discussed. Be assured that government authorities, government and all other authorities of the Republic of Serbia, and all well-intentioned people, too, want this matter to be investigated to the end and we will insist on it and be persistent.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50531	Mr. Ljajic has a word. Two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50532	I'll be very brief. All of our MPs who are members of the European Parliament have had the opportunity to make that point here today, to support Dick Marty's report, and in addition, it is very bad for us to talk about the categories of winners and the winners. It's even worse to celebrate Dick Marty now, to talk about how he needs to build a monument, because a man made an extremely objective report, we need to concentrate on the content of that report and, as I said, to demand an investigation, anyway, what Marty himself recommended in his report and what the Resolution contains.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50533	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50534	I find it hard to believe you're making the right moves because Mr. Cvetkovic doesn't know that Dick Martin doesn't exist, and you don't know that we don't have any MPs in the European Parliament. I really can't believe it. It's not a lapus, it's absolute ignorance. It is the ignorance of who decides in Europe and where the document is brought. But I remind you now that you should look sometimes...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50535	Mr Nikolic, through the participation of our permanent delegation in the Parliament of Europe, i.e. in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, this House was also presented and, in fact, the content of Mr Ljajic's speech applied to this segment. I think you understand that very well. It's not good to label government members the way you do. I'll give you time for this explanation, but I just have to react and I have to run a session according to some rules. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50536	Ma'am, he's labeling himself. I'm just pointing out that it's not exactly what he's saying, and that kind of mistake can't make an informed man. Second, since when did you graduate from law school? What gives you the right to interfere when there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure or anything today? And I need you to wait for me to...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50537	Please, I'm running a session and I can't let you manipulate the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50538	So, you should take a look at some... Well, I'm defending you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, but what do you care, you're not the one anymore. So, to look at some foreign television and see what it looks like today, this house that I learned in Serbian media three years ago is a "yellow house" where the organs were removed. But you've never done anything since you've been in power. So, it's a small, nice, modest house, flowers in front of the house, inside a television production 20 years ago, children's toys, cots of children. The way the house looks, that's what the Serb burial sites look like. Unlike us, Albanians have destroyed all traces and have extra time to destroy the tracks. They have extra time to scare or kill witnesses. Are you witnesses that even in the case of Haradinaj there will be no more witnesses? And now you're talking to me - we're waiting for someone else to do something about it. There's no one else to do anything about it. You didn't raise your voice. We should not exult over what people have done to the atrocities of Serbs, we should raise our voice. How did you take advantage of that? How do you kick a pen? You close your eyes and turn your back? And who's going to do our job for us? What's the other one's name? Well, you just said that in Telecom, we're going to have a significant minority stake and that we're going to be able to influence the decision-making process. And you're the Prime Minister? The minority owner will be able to influence the decision-making process? I haven't noticed that in your privatisations yet... (President: Time. And you said not to read the numbers yet, because in accounting we don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50539	Does anyone want to answer? Although, practically, there were no questions. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50540	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Cvetkovic, I ask you a direct question – why do the authorities in Serbia conceal evidence of human organs trafficking? Which is why your D.A. comes up with information that the investigation didn't lead to Hashim Thaci? Because, if that's true, you haven't read Dick Marty's report, which, among other things, states the following. He called in footnotes for a report by the Berlin Institute of European Politics on 9 January 2007, prepared for the German defence ministry, which has been classified as a secret, however, is available on the internet, where Hashim Thaci is precisely cited as the main organiser of all these deaths and crimes. The second document calling for Dick Marti in his report is a report by the German secret service GND from February 22, 2005, which also cited Thaci as the main organiser of these and similar crimes, along with Luhu and Haradinaj. Your representatives mention Haradinaj. Are you doing this because you want to negotiate with Hashim Thaci? Another group of crimes you're covering up. Why are you hiding information that trafficking in human organs has started and executed by the paramilitary formations of Tudjman's Croatia? Why are you hiding that information? During the aggression, so-called The Croatian military on the Kupres sanity team has been practicing the organs of captured soldiers and kidnapped Serb civilians. After the release of Kupres on 7 April 1992 under the command (remember this) of General Mladic was found in the dead soldiers documentation and photographs of organ extraction. Republika Srpska's Krajina government has sent several statements on this subject to you, as well as the UN. Two, why are you hiding information that the Serbian security services and the Serbian government have been holding a conversation since 15 August 2001 between General Wesley Clark and Javier Solana, where the trafficking of organs taken by Serb civilians and soldiers is mentioned? There's a hospital in Bondsteel that, according to these stenograms, has been mentioned in the removal of human organs, and is mentioned in the Royal Hospital in London. I ask the question - how can you hide these facts in the first place? For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50541	The Prime Minister has a word, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50542	I'm just going to give my answer in principle, and I'm going to ask Minister Malovic for specificity. I really can't believe anyone can think the Serbian government is hiding information about crimes against Serbs. Really, if anyone thinks so, then I don't know what to say about it. Of course, we've been investigating. Some investigations remain ongoing, and the gathering during the investigation will be available in an appropriate procedure. But to hide how the Serbs were tortured, murdered, etc. And we're covering it up right now, that's really a little over the top.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50543	Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50544	I also think it is not true that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are hiding things like this, and I will try through the work that the War Crimes Prosecutor has had in the previous period to reassure you about. Not only you, but also to give the citizens of Serbia an explanation about this. As early as 2008, in March, when the book of Carla del Ponte appeared in public, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office opened a pre-criminal procedure in connection with human organs trafficking. At that time, it was seen quite with the skepticism, because it was thought to be one part of the book that might not even stand, since Carla del Ponte was the prosecutor of the International Criminal Tribunal. It is precisely the activities of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office that have been raised in front of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the report that is today in front of all of you, the Dick Marty report, largely represents the result of the work of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. There is still a pre-criminal procedure regarding this event and our prosecution will, of course, try to obtain some evidence as far as it can. I will also remind you that in 2008 the war crimes prosecutor discussed with Albanian prosecutor Ina Rama, when a decision was made at one point to initiate a pre-crisis procedure in Albania, but for some reasons, which we can all conclude are politically motivated, it did not occur. To further reassure you, I will inform you that, otherwise, Hashim Thaci is in the investigation by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. The subject is currently in the War Crimes Council and is being called a central arrest warrant.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50545	Thank you. Mr. Alexic, a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50546	Thank you. I'm not happy with your answers. I said the D.A.'s officials pointed out that an investigation into organ trafficking did not lead to Thaci. You may be investigating Thaci for what I don't know, but this is what your representatives brought out. Sam Marti says Kosovo Prime Minister Hashim Thaci's name appears in police reports before the book of Carla del Ponte for years. In diplomatic telegrams, criminal studies (meaning something accessible to the academic public), reports by foreign intelligence services. That's a fact. Second, evidence delivered to The Hague by the tribunal was destroyed in 2006. How is that possible? How is there no investigation in this matter? How did the representatives of Serbia not ask to conduct an investigation on the matter? You mentioned, Mrs. Malovic, one book by Carla del Ponte. Here's what Florence Artman wrote, and then you'll understand why The Hague tribunal destroyed the evidence. Florence Artman in his book "Peace and Penalty" states that in the tribunal's prosecution in The Hague, US intelligence agents and British intelligence agents MI6 are infiltrated. It states that the prosecution has begun to operate by experts from the CIA and the Pentagon, a total of 22, came and organised the work of the tribunal in The Hague. The charges are written by these people. How can you co-operate with such an institution, when it is known that it is not possible for the UN to work for someone who works for foreign services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50547	Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50548	First of all, I would like to say that immediately after 2001, the KIM Coordination Centre submitted a lot of documentation (I own part of this documentation and can give it to you) to all relevant international institutions, from the Council of Europe, through the State Department, to all human rights organisations, which contain evidence of the crimes committed to Kosovo, including the human organ trafficking in Kosovo. Unfortunately, our political strength and influence were not such that we could keep this problem open, i.e. that the problem interested one of the judicial but also of the political international institutions, and the international community then had a policy that stability in Kosovo was more important to them than the satisfaction of justice. Only in 2003, Unmik sent the first report to The Hague tribunal, which lists witness statements, with no names and last names, on crimes and trafficking of human organs in Kosovo, with a special emphasis on the three sites in northern Albania. The UN tribunal then responds to Unmika that they need clear names and last names, i.e. witness names, in order to continue investigations in Kosovo and northern Albania. Unfortunately, Unmik did not respond to those requirements, and in 2004, tribunal investigators go to Kosovo and the north of Albania, where they make up a report on it. What you are now referring to as the Prosecutor's Office and the link to Hashim Thaci, is that the tribunal, since it has completed its new indictments, tried to bring these evidence into contact with cases already being conducted in the tribunal, above all with this group of Ramush Haradinaj. Since they couldn't find a connection with Ramush Haradinaj and his brother, who were the first to suspect these crimes, those evidence was destroyed in 2005. We also discussed this with Prosecutor Brammertz two days ago, where he said they were destroyed for that reason, and the other reason is that these evidence was in such a state that it was practically impossible for them to be kept in the tribunal archives. As evidence, he mentioned that not only were the evidence destroyed, but also evidence of crimes in Srebrenica. They were also destroyed in 2005 with these items, which are now subject to huge remarks by different associations from Srebrenica. You can blame everything, but if someone here didn't want to cooperate, that someone's covering up evidence, that someone's now afraid to bring this issue to an end in any way, I really don't think this is the topic where we're going to outwit ourselves in this way and that someone's going to pick up political points. It's more than clear here and it's good that about it, at least I thought we had full consent, but it's obvious that this subject is becoming a subject of politicization. I am firmly convinced that if we are wise, we can lead this thing to a final epilogue, and that epilogue is the only court. We were talking about this mechanism. We need to fight for this mechanism, to be an ad hoc mechanism of the UN, and let's not give ourselves auto-nakeds and do damages by now we're going to outwitting ourselves by whether someone is more patriots by talking about these crimes in this way, or someone is going to try to do a different policy than they are being led, without any authority, without strong words, without big talk, this thing leads to the end or at least not to harm this whole story. I think we're hurting if this is where we suggest that Dick Marty be magnificent in a way that raises his monument. And how we damage Dick Marty and his report to ourselves. I think we're hurting if this is how we debate this, that someone was hiding evidence or that someone was protecting Hashim Thaci. Therefore, Serbia has done everything for itself. And when we asked, I'll tell you that, too, evidence from Unmik about this report, they said they didn't have any reports. Our War Crimes Prosecutor's Office came up with these documents. A total of 25 pages was that report, nine pages were missing. When we told Unmika that we had that report, then a full 25-page report appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50549	Time. National MP Boris Aleksic has a word. You have 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50550	Thank you, Mr. Ljajic. I still don't think the government of the Republic of Serbia has the courage to present evidence leading to Wesley Clark, Javier Solana, Kusner, Richard Holbrooke and others involved in these mob activities in organ trafficking. Also, you do not have the courage to present evidence concerning the taking of organs of kidnapped and kidnapped Serbs by paramilitary Croatian formations. That's a big problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50551	Ljiljana Zdravkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50552	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a month the public of Serbia has been appalled by the incredible data presented in the Insider show on the business of the Kolubara company, with an emphasis on the period from 2004 to 2009, which discuss the theft of state property and major corruption affairs. Citizens of Lazarets and Colubare workers were not surprised by the data as these phenomena took place in front of their eyes. Workers of the "Colubare", who always had responsibility and care for their company, filed criminal charges several times – 2002, 2003 and 2008, but never received an answer to that question. In this way, the Public Prosecutor's Office, by its inaction, supports the enormous wealth of individuals by 2008, at the expense of the public enterprise, i.e. the state. And this is one of the indicators that we needed to reform the judiciary. The further spilling of state money into private pockets was stopped in July 2009, by the arrival of the new Kolubara leadership. Since 2009, Kolubara has started to operate positively and thus has seen a growth of 18m euros in 2009 and 20m euros in 2010. The public is aware that the prosecution launched investigative activities in 2008, and therefore, on behalf of citizens, and especially honest and honest "Colubare" workers who in very difficult conditions have always achieved good results for the benefit of all Serbia, I appeal and ask the authorities to investigate and bring this case to an end. Convinced that the state has the determination and strength to prevent and sanction such phenomena, I ask Justice Minister Mrs Malovic – how far has the investigation arrived and can citizens expect that there will be no protected individuals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50553	The Prime Minister has a word first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50554	First of all, I'd like to thank you for the questions you've asked and say that the television show has really turned public attention to this case. However, you have noted very well that, in essence, the prosecution's attention was already present in 2008. Of course, what you're investigating doesn't appear on television that everyone knows how far you've come. Two facts are significant here. One is the launch of an investigation in 2008 and shortly thereafter, under new leadership, the improvement of financial results. The second fact – put it in the context of the government, which is behind it, is going in the direction of resolution. Now I would like to ask Minister Malovic for details.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50555	I fully agree with the fact that the allegations presented on the television show "Insider" represent the flagrant abuses that occurred in this public enterprise. As the Prime Minister said, it's not something unknown to our state bodies. I informed myself about this when a public show appeared and received information that a pre-crisis procedure was launched in 2008. Two applications were previously rejected. I can't get into that, but I know it's the subject of a review of the Republic's prosecutor's office, whether or not those applications have been rejected. Certainly in 2008, the Belgrade District Prosecutor's Office, and then the current More Prosecutor's Office, sent five requests for the necessary information to the police. We have information that the police were acting on it. So, at this point, you're working intensively on that case. The case is currently in the Attorney General's Office of Organized Crime. So, if it is established that there is a jurisdiction of this prosecution, then it will be prosecuted before the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and the court department involved in these cases. As someone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but primarily as a citizen of Serbia, I expect our state authorities to come out very quickly with a view to, if there is a reasonable doubt, launching an investigation into what has happened and, of course, to take certain measures provided for by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50556	Mr. Skundrich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50557	I would like to inform the Serbian Parliament and citizens that it has not all started with the television show "Insider". Much earlier, the question of rational business in the EPS was raised, especially in the Colubara. As a result of the joint effort, we today have over five times less consumption in that part, or over five times less engagement of external machinery than it was in 2008. This is very important to know, for one particular reason, because in 2009, at the time of the gas crisis, in 2010, we had a record production of coal in Kolubara and we have to give credit to our miners on extraordinary results and we have had record electricity production on very unfavourable times, and we have performed serious procedures to streamline the engagement of external machinery. Therefore, investigative actions began long before TV B92 broadcast this series and it is certain that all those who have sinned or committed a crime will have to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50558	The People's MP, Riza Halimi, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50559	Thank you, Madam President. I have the next question - if the government's representatives are against politicizing Marty's report, then why is the subject with a politicised context accepted? How can this define policy towards Kosovo in the context of Marty's report when Dick Marty himself advocates the processing of all war criminals by making everyone responsible for the crimes committed? Is this politicization meant to create symmetry in alleged collective guilt, which we had little time to hear from certain speakers? Minister Ljajic, if I remember correctly, spoke about 570 missing persons in Kosovo. As the official reports show, there are over 1,700 missing persons in Kosovo's territory. Does the minister speak only of missing Serbs or should he be interested in all the missing from Kosovo's territory whose tragic fate has not yet been enlightened and the culprits have yet to answer for it? Today, mass graves in Serbia were mentioned in which Albanians who had been killed previously in Kosovo were put to death, but in the context of criticism by authorities that helped to expose it. The question arises to what extent all of this has been prosecuted so far and how many criminals were responsible for it. I also ask the question – why have 11 Albanian civilians not been killed in April and May 1999 on the territory of the Presevo municipality, which were suspected members of the Yugoslav Army at the time? Of course, doubt is one thing, in any situation. Some of these are doubts in the book of Carla del Ponte, in the report by Dick Marty, that these are the doubts that the citizens of Presheva have for the fate of those 11 civilians of that time and others who were killed, kidnapped or missing and whose fate is also unknown in the period 1999-2001. in the year when armed conflicts were in the land zone of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja. I think either the Hague tribunal, so why not the EULEX in Kosovo, let it be the Eulex plus, but one international court instance, absolutely objectively must investigate it, not that they are absolutely immorally bickering from different positions on who or at any point did or did not do so without leaving it to one objective court procedure, so that each one is responsible for his work, and not that we are here to convince ourselves who is collectively responsible for this or that. I think it's the international community, if it's Eulex, and they're calling it, they've been looking for arguments for a little longer to start processing for all these crimes, and I think it's the only time, there are no other options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50560	Minister Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50561	Dear MPs, today two topics have been run here, but it is certainly the trade of organs and the report by Dick Marty for us, especially for those people living in Kosovo, for families who have experienced such a fate, a very important topic, and I therefore appeal to all MPs that, although my colleagues have said so, we do not politicise in any way. What Ambassador Riza said absolutely does not stand. Riza, you know well that this government advocates that all crimes, not only on KIM, but all crimes in the former Yugoslavia must be prosecuted, that all perpetrators of these crimes must be brought to justice, not for some peace, but for the future of the entire Western Balkans. The same goes for the KIM area and the events that were in southern Serbia, in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji, but at least we sitting here in this assembly need to understand that there is no need to play with the victims and that there is no need to blame or abolize anyone in advance. For us, it is particularly important that there is one body, that is also Minister Jeremic in the Security Council, who will co-ordinate the entire process of investigation into KIM and manage issues in jurisdiction and ensure proper enforcement of justice. It is our interest, because the position of the Republic of Serbia lies in the solution of establishing an ad hoc investigative mechanism that would establish everything that was going on down there. We all know that Eulex has no authority to investigate not only in Albania, but in all of Europe, Asia and Africa, where it can be established that it was the trade of these organs. We don't mind EULEX doing it in Kosovo itself. We expect Eulex to do something like that, but that's why we're looking for an independent body under a UN patronage that can investigate things down there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50562	Mr. Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50563	We absolutely agree that it should be objectively, professionally, absolutely without any frustration that this whole situation is lighting up and that criminals are responding, with what – does it not get the impression that sometimes we are playing with the tragic fate of the missing, and those who have disappeared and the families of the missing, both Albanians and Serbs, who have been seeking answers for more than ten years? You know their protests. What does the government offer? Not the Assembly, but the government in Kosovo, Serbia or the international community? These murders, i.e. their disappearances, are not lit up at all, and now we're all over the story and we're getting into some deeper things, I think immoral, about the way they were killed and without arguments. I think it would be far more effective to have these authorities that I mentioned, in all order, and above all, be what Minister Ljajic mentioned, be it Eulex plus or something that would be stronger, but it is time, after ten and a change of years, and not only in Kosovo, but also in Bosnia and all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, to finally put an end to the fate of the missing. Instead of an energetic action in lighting and processing, we deal with political effects and bickering all the time in terms of some collective guilt. Will it affect the government of Kosovo to be incompetent in talks and dialogue... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50564	Please, time's up. Minister Bogdanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50565	I just forgot to say it. Did you hear from anyone, starting with the prime minister who just talked about it, that we don't want anyone to be guilty of collective guilt? As we do not wish, and some things have happened in the name of the Serbian people, that the entire Serbian people are held accountable, so no one says that the entire Albanian people should bear responsibility for what they have done. KIM KIM KLA leaders. Please don't distort the facts or the words. No one here seeks the collective responsibility of Albanians.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50566	Mr. Riza, you've used your time, you have no right anymore. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable members of the government, Mr. Prime Minister, in the context of issues we have today's right to ask about the business or the problems involved in public enterprises, I have an obligation to ask Mr. Skundric a question, and that is a question which at this point weighs a large number of citizens, as we would say - in the rest of Serbia. Because when it comes to this problem, I think we're dividing into Belgrade and the rest of Serbia. In fact, we all remember in the 1970s, when citizens were giving out serious funds for reconstruction, rebirth, the construction of Serbia's electricity system. We all remember that. We participated in this, more or less, our families and every house in Serbia made a significant contribution. However, today we are in one, after the government's recognition, of a really serious economic crisis. No matter what those non-scheduled news reports were, even in the spring, as we got out of the crisis, it was now seen that we weren't, that it was just marketing. So we are in one serious crisis, as a state and as a people, and of course always the burden of the crisis most and most difficult to bear those who can least resist it, especially those who have least contributed to it. Serbian citizens, when it comes to electricity consumption, have different treatment within a state system. When a citizen owes in Belgrade, he is warned several times, almost never excluded, but when in the rest of Serbia (from Horgos to Dragas, as popularly said) a citizen is late with an account (now the border of tolerance has moved more and more, so very soon after the warning comes), people from the EPS come with scissors and shut down. Then comes, of course, that illegal charge of subsequent inclusion, and that's the pure money, the easy money, as it is said, that comes with special funds, which is particularly uncontrollably spent, except for real debt. This is what the citizens are interested in – why did this different treatment occur? Why is it that when they are owed on any basis by the state, they can do so in court, and they have to solve their debts in this way? It is very stressful and very painful for many families in Serbia, knowing the situation most citizens in Serbia are living in right now. Of course, it's not an affirmation of debt, but you know how much the economic operators owe...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50568	Time. Mr. Skundrich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50569	First, I would like to apologize on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Ministry of Mining and Energy and on behalf of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, if there were really inappropriate ways of behaviour in shutting down electricity. I know there have been power outages for those consumers who have not met their obligations over the long term. Our suggestion of Serbia's Elektroprivred was that wherever possible, a debt reprogramme was made for both households and economic operators, and every letter addressed to the Ministry on this issue was answered and came out to the extent that the law allows. I would like to say that Serbia's Elektroprivreda is indeed one of the most important companies in our country, to provide the largest investment spending compared to all investment operations in our country, that in the last three years, the Elektroprivreda of Serbia invested over a billion and a half euros, allowing Serbia's employees to work on tens of thousands of workers. But I also have to say that there's one number of consumers, whether it's business entities or households, that don't settle their obligations on a regular basis. The sum is currently around 700m euros in debt to Elektroprivred Serbia. And it's not going to serial power outages, it only went to where really long time periods are, although we advised that wherever possible an agreement, an agreement, not to exclude the current of households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50570	Mrs. Djeric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50571	I thank you for your apology, which I truly consider sincere. Let me tell you that the term you used "unsuitable", that is, on the ground, is really present, check it out. And it's not a long period of time, but it's a month, and citizens don't usually receive months' wages for the month, but they wait much longer (those who receive, who are fortunate to receive), but I accept your answer. I have another part of the question that concerns the EPS again. I've asked that question before, and it concerns every citizen who's a beneficiary of EPS services. In fact, is it true that during the collection of TV subscriptions, two laws are violated – the Data Securitisation Act and the Bond Relations Act? In fact, a citizen who contracts with the EPS of bond relations, i.e. contracts for the use of electricity, has a clearly defined obligation with that contractual relationship and they are not disputed. But the EPS has taken on itself, i.e. it has been granted the right or obligation to citizens on the grounds that they have an electricity-exploitation clock, and it also charges for the RTD subscription. So it's not a guarantee that if you have a number reading your electricity consumption, you also have a television set and that you are obliged to pay for a tv subscription. It is not necessary for citizens to prove that they do not have it, but to prove that they do and to establish a bonding relationship on the basis of which they would have to pay the obligation, whether they accept it or not. So is this how these two laws are broken, of course, to the harm of the citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50572	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50573	If you'll allow me to tell you, the EPS didn't have a wish, nor did it take the opportunity to charge the television subscription. The EPS was imposed by a certain government decision not to know how many years ago. I'm also agreed that we should look for some other way and not connect these two things, because they have nothing in common with each other. But at that point, there was a more functional relationship and the assumption that anyone with an electric number had a television set and that the same way and the same account would be charged and spent electricity and TV subscriptions. As far as the "Electroprivreda of Serbia" is concerned, as far as this ministry is concerned, we will be very pleased to help to seek a new solution, if a better solution can be found, for the payment of a television fee.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50574	National MP Dr. Vesna Pesic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50575	I'd like to draw attention to the fact that when we talk about public enterprises, whether they're at a state or local level, we're mostly just talking about the economic consequences, which are really catastrophic, because these are enterprises that don't function on corporate principles, but above all as political enterprises, which we once had in some kind of system, but at least it was some kind of control, and now there's nothing. I'd like to point out that the fact that these companies are chosen exclusively by unprofessional faces is for managing the ability of these companies. Here, let's say, this trial is now for Mr. Sharancic. He was a barman before that. So it doesn't take a man to be an expert, because those people who participate in it are solely being placed on the party line. When new elections come, when the post-election structure is changed, whether at local level or at national level, the entire ruling party's political class changes from beginning to end. I would like to point out that Mr. Sasa Jankovic would have to be interested, as well as Mr. Ljajic, in order for Serbia to be registered to the IOR, the International Labour Organization, for the discrimination of citizens, because for these places, and just to tell you that there are 8,242 directors in Serbia's leading places where there is no competition and where all other citizens are excluded and there is no possibility of getting them, and all places, executives or any other, must be available to all citizens. That's why it doesn't change this system, because it is a political decision to abolish one exploitable political class, which is not only these eight thousand and something, but when all the ministries and everything else are added to the party line where people are also employed, one huge group of people for whom – Mrs. Malovic, I am talking to you now – is another big damage, which is that the law does not apply to them. They also tear down the private sector, because they do not respect the contracts and are forced to run marathon disputes because they do not pay off the goods they receive, they must run marathon disputes on the so-called. A reformed judiciary, where you can never really win and wait for justice. I want to tell our citizens that when in one crisis, when it's a small economy, when people strike because they don't have, these are people without any sense, who have joined together, as one ruling class, against our citizens and citizens rightly point out that this is a great injustice. They would also suffer shortages if there was some rational reason, but they can no longer suffer this injustice...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50576	Finish it, please. Your time is up. Mr. Skundrich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50577	I would ask you not to give general evaluations for all public enterprises. I can speak from the aspect of public enterprises, for example. in the EPS or the Ministry of Mining and Energy. When I came as minister to that ministry, I didn't change any employees, regardless of his political orientation. And that moment most of them didn't belong to DS, and the SPS probably didn't belong. Therefore, there was no employment on the political line. In the EPS you have brilliant engineers, located at the director of companies, in general management, and in all verticals of professional places there are engineers or economists or lawyers in those places that need this profession. I can tell you that the EPS launched a contest a few months ago and received 158 young people with higher education, and several thousand were reported to that contest. I'm telling you that in the EPS, in NIS, even though we no longer have that kind of influence, it's not political or party-line employment, but on the basis of expertise and knowledge, because these systems can't function if they're run by people who aren't those professions. Excuse me, someone can't start a thermal power plant or a hydropower plant if it's not that structuring. If you want, ask Mr. Bayatovic, he will tell you he has completed two high schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50578	Two questions in two minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50579	I must say, the people who watch this, if anyone is watching, would have to laugh at what you're saying, Mr. Skundric. Well, here's Mr. Nebojsa Ceran, director of the Colubare, sitting here, he's from the DS. What are you talking about? Which party is Bajatovic from? And what was he before that? He had a TV station. What kind of expert is he on "Serbiagas"? What does he do with gas anyway, I'm sorry? And what party is he from? Let's see what's next. The railroads, too. Whose sector is it? Mr. Markovic was an MP before that. What are you even talking about? Public enterprises are party registers, we all know that. And this party financing bill, which you're preparing, falls into the water because you're looking at the other side, and this side, where actually the biggest donations... We saw what they had given for the churches, for this, for what they had come to think of, and from among the people they set out. I'm just saying, you've multiplied, sir. There's too many of you. The people can no longer bear this injustice. Secondly, these citizens are not responsible for anything. Their income, the salaries of all these directors, the false, unprofessional directors, we've seen how they work, they all have over 200,000 salaries. And you have a few functions and you get a few salaries, of course. How long are we going to put up with this? How long will the citizens put up with it? It's not just an economic problem. Of course the economic consequences are catastrophic, 45% of the market value was eaten because of the lack of human resources in public enterprises. What happens in ten years? It won't be worth anything. Who's gonna pay for that? They'll pay for this poor thing again. So, please, don't just... The irrationality of public enterprises starts from the fact that you, as party officials, want to rule, hold on to the economy and, of course, feed your ruling class on privileges.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50580	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50581	Mrs. Pesic, truly responsible, here in front of you, honourable MPs, I have announced that I have not had any other salary for a long time than the salary I receive as a member of the government. Under moral and criminal responsibility, I declare this, for the sake of the citizens and for the inaccuracy you have spoken. You can't, as you like, accuse Mr. Tsaran of being on the party line. Please, he's a graduate engineer. And that director of the Colubare managed, along with all of us, to rationalise this level of consumption that I was talking about by 5.2 times. 520% decreased the engagement of external machinery thanks, among other things, to that man. So when we talk about facts, I want us to make sure that they're very stubborn and that they're just proof. There's Mr. Tsaran. He's not a director because he's a member of the DS, but because he's a good engineer and, by the way, a member of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50582	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50583	The decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia to sell "Telecom Serbia" is the best proof of the economic policy that you are leading, and we have recently heard that all responsibility lies with Mladjan Dinkic, the minister you have replaced. The whole public, I suppose, is familiar with that, and I assume you care about that public, is against the sale of Telecom. Citizens do not have to be professional and do not have to be familiar with the details of the contract and the way you think to sell the most profitable firm Serbia has. They simply feel that the money will disappear and that the money will not be invested in the way that certain representatives of the government, and there are different statements, say it will be invested. So, what's this about? My question is this, and I ask you to listen to me carefully and not look anywhere else, to see when someone is talking to you personally and looking you in the eye. As prime minister, you are obliged to say, if Telecom is sold, how that money will be spent. If you don't know that you're giving the answer now, and I'm convinced you won't know it, then it's proof that you intend to sell Telecom exclusively to use that money for a pre-election campaign, so you can remain in power. I'm glad you laughed. We'll see after your answer, when I have one more right, with this poor Rules of Procedure, to speak to you, who will last smile. I certainly won't, because, basically, I know the answer. So the government said all the money would be invested in the infrastructure. Which one? What country sells third generation infrastructure to build first generation infrastructure? You sell high-tech telecommunications systems to build roads and railways when the whole world builds roads and railways through concessions. What's this about? But now it's slowly coming out and the fact that you intend to spend money to cover the budget hole. Is this the responsible national government? Are you aware of the extent to which you are jeopardizing both state and national interests by deciding to sell Telecom? No wonder the whole public, but also the professional public, rebelled against the sale of Telecom.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50584	Time. The Prime Minister wants to give you an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50585	Dear People's MP, it seems to me that there are two aspects in your question that interfere, and then it's not clear what's essentially a question. One aspect is your general view that you should not sell to a company that is profitable, and another aspect is the question of what that money will be spent on after the sale. It's not clear whether you're asking what money will be spent on after it's sold or why we even sell when it's profitable, so I'm going to try to answer both questions. When it comes to the first question, should we even sell something that is profitable, I don't think it's too much wisdom to say yes to you, because the government shouldn't be involved in entrepreneurship. It is a general principle, which I did not invent, nor did Serbia invent. So that's the general principle, that the state should withdraw from economic activities and introduce a private pro-pulsive sector. I think that answer should satisfy you. It is additional to us because at this point we have opened a competitive market and this profitability that everyone is calling on is, in turn, something that is not sustainable on the long term unless the approach to this company is changed. This change of approach would mean at least three things: firstly, not to withdraw any dividend, but to allow it to reinvest it; secondly, to provide him with management that would be professional and would no longer have any political influence; and thirdly, to remove his obligations as a majority state-owned company related to pay levels, public procurement, etc., so that he could be competitive. So that's one block of reasons why this company needs to be sold, not so much that you're going to get some money. So, what I'm saying is that it seems to me that we're going to have a long-term problem with the functioning of the company unless we end this transaction. However, there is, of course, an option in which the transaction will not be realised, and that is an option not to receive an appropriate offer. We are not in favour of a bazaar offer, but in that case we need to open up this stock exchange company and treat it as an open stock company with all rights and obligations, so we need to bring it closer to what is called market business and where these three elements that I was talking about will be included, even if the state and majority owner are in it. Finally, regarding the first answer but not less important, obviously there are different attitudes about public enterprises, party prey, etc. You've just heard the discussion before you, which says it absolutely needs to be sold, in the sense that public enterprises should not at all be state-owned, and you say otherwise, so these are the things that can be discussed. As for the second issue, relating to the use of the funds to be received from that transaction, there are various statements, ideas, etc., but not to be convinced much, I think the simplest answer would be the following – we will spend that money on what this assembly defines. So there won't be any spending of money intransparent, vague, for some purposes that you can't see, but we'll go to the Parliament and say – here, that's it. Of course, everything within the regular budget, the rebalance, etc., so that it will be true and clear what that money will be spent on.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50586	Thank you. Do you have a question?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50587	So, just like I assumed. Mr. Cvetkovic, you have no idea how you're going to spend your money and you want to sell Telecom.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50588	Mr. Nikolic, you can't talk to Mr. Prime Minister like that. It's really not right. You may not like the explanation, you may have an objection, but the argument and the facts that the Prime Minister made are really like that. If you don't like it, you can't say it in a sentence you said. You're destroying the government's reputation, you're destroying this home's reputation. And now re-apply, for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50589	Mr. Cvetkovic, I'm not happy with your argument. You have only shown here that you are a representative of the neoliberal concept, stating that the state should not deal with business and that telecommunications and Telecom Serbia should be on the market. But then I have a question for you. Why does the state make apartments if it doesn't have to do business? What's "Serbigas"? Do they sell chickens, glass, gas? What do they do? Do you know how contradictory you were in your answer? And that's because of what I said at the beginning, which I can't say again now. So what's obvious here is that the government really doesn't have any plans to spend that money. Or I'll quote the finance minister (I don't know if you're going to rescind her after you analyze her work), who said the government has a spare budget funding variant in case Telecom's sales fail. So she admitted that you wanted to finance the budget by selling Telecom. And that's why the people won't let you do it, and that's why the professional public won't let you do it. Now let me tell you one thing, let the citizens know. During the government, Vojislav Kostunica was bought "Telecom" in Republika Srpska and we became operators in Montenegro. Now we have a profit of over 100 million. When we pay off the loans by 2013, the profits will be over 300 million. You're selling something we'll have in three or four years as a profit from that company. Not to mention national and national security. Your government... And you're pretty irresponsible...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50590	Time. Thank you. Here's the prime minister to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50591	If you'll excuse me, I have a few things to make comments about what you said. First of all, it's not true that I'm advocating a neoliberal approach. That's absolutely not true. There are people, even in this congregation, who advocate a neoliberal approach, but you've actually entered a tautology. You said I stood for one, and then you gave two or three examples that this government demonstrates is the opposite of that. Then what made you think that I stood up for it? Now let's not get into this guy's argument. I mean, I'm not in favour of a neoliberal approach, but I'm in favour of market access, but with social responsibility to citizens, especially those who are poor. In this context, this government will continue to behave, therefore insisting on the free market, insisting that the state is not engaged in reselling or selling or business, but that the state protects those most at risk. In that context, if I understand correctly that you bought Telecom in Republika Srpska at the time of the previous government, it is not clear to me whether you worked at Telecom or the government bought it. What I'm saying is that all that has been done has, of course, strengthened our system and thus provided us with the opportunity to enter this transaction as one significant player. Finally, I would just like to explain, when it comes to the statements of the finance minister and the budget and the links between the budget and the "Telecom" funds, I can assume that people who are not economists or who are not dealing with this problem about the state budget, even if they are economists, may not understand it, but it is important to understand that no single dinar is spent outside the budget. And those funds that go for infrastructure and are financed from Telecom sales will also be released through the budget. So it's an absolutely non-consistent statement. She would be inconsistencies if Telecom's funds were spent outside the budget, for some specific purposes, and the budget remained this close, and then someone would ask why she connected the funds from the sale to the budget. It connects them because this infrastructure, in which these funds are invested, will have to go through the budget and see exactly what the money has been spent on and this government will seek to be transparent in the way the funds are spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50592	National MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I would like to point out and ask the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make as much of an effort as possible to finally get the right picture, i.e. the report by Dick Marty. that all those who have committed these greatest crimes that have occurred in the last century are processed and that all those involved in these crimes are brought to justice. This is where the question arises which court should do so. I think we need to form a body that will have more ingenuity, and that can't possibly be done by the Eulex Justice that's currently in KIM space. To support this, I'm going to give a concrete example of what's going on these days in Kim's space. Here I will read to you a warrant from the District Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, more specifically the judges of Eulex Carolina Sharpentia, acting as vice-president of the court, acting on a request for a search warrant submitted by the Prosecutor of the Republic of Kosovo, Jonathan Ratel of 4 February 2011 and being taken into the office of the Mitrovica District Court on 9 February 2011, where a request for search warrants for houses and storage facilities located next to the house of Saša Virivic, Serbian nationality, with residence in Donja Jasenovic, the municipality of Zubin Potok, etc. It is happening here that ahead of the Security Council session itself, when the topic was a report on the situation in the KIM space submitted by Minister Vuk Jeremic and Zannier, a representative of Unmik at KIM, placed information, and broadcast TV B92, that an organized group of criminals was allegedly arrested in the north of KIM, all with the goal of minimising the report by Dick Marty, which points to this terrible beastly crime that has taken place in recent years. That's what's amazing. That's why I'm asking the government's representative to protect the Serbs in KIM just by not going into that kind of information. I'll tell you who was arrested. There's a man who's been arrested guarding the warehouse and two workers working on a gas station. People fighting for the naked life have been arrested, and it's been released, which is the worst, as information that it's an organized group of criminals. On the other hand, I'd like to ask you if it's the Eulex Justice impartially as you told us when you convinced us that this Eulexa mission should be...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50594	Time. Minister Bogdanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50595	As you know, honourable MPs (thank you, Kragovic, on the issue), in the last few days there have been some activities in northern Kosovo. According to Eulex, it was a fight against organised crime, but, as I see in some of my statements and reactions from the Ministry of KIM and the Ministry of Interior, we received information that a mistake was actually made in arresting these people who, according to EULEX, were involved in organised crime. To our intervention, to our reaction, it turned out to be a mistake so they released them immediately the next day, but there was one stain left in the EULEX judge's solution, where they are blamed for tax evasion, contributions, excise duties and customs duties. And here our attitude is quite clear – we do not want to finance the so-called "so-called" in any way. the state of Kosovo. Negotiations go, one of the topics will be customs, and we believe that in these negotiations we can come up with a solution in which we can overcome these problems and solve them. As for who should be involved in the process or investigation of organ trafficking, and I said earlier – the position of the Republic of Serbia is that the solution lies in the establishment of an ad hoc investigation mechanism, which would be established by the Security Council and in which it would be responsible. We have no objection to the EU mission, i.e. Eulex is investigating KIM territory, but I repeat, Eulex has no mandate to investigate Albania, so I just said in Europe, and it wasn't a lapus when I told Asia and Africa, because according to the report, Dick Marty can also be seen that organ trafficking was in those countries, and unfortunately, from Albania, these organs also went to those continents. Be assured, that the citizens of KIM know, especially the citizens of northern Kosovo, that the government of the Republic of Serbia will by no means in any way endanger the rights of Serbs to KIM. But, at the same time, this is also an opportunity to appeal to the Serbs at KiM, especially those people who are blocking roads today, that we had talks with Eulex last night, that we got the same answer that they won't let, will not participate in the actions that finance so-called in any way. The state of Kosovo, that it will not in any way force Serbs from northern Kosovo to pay taxes, contributions and excise duties. Also, you all know that half an hour a day down there is blocking the roads, in northern Kosovo, due to the patrolling of the KPS of Albanian nationality police. The deal was that without Kosovo Serbs' consent, without official Belgrade's consent, the patrols cannot move to northern Kosovo. We don't mind the traffic police doing their job, but in agreement with the people who live on KIM itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50596	Mr. Kragovic, please. You have two minutes for two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50597	I just want to point out that Serbs from the north of Kosovo and in general from Kosovo are seeking protection from the government to prevent such phenomena as the appearance that TV B92 made a statement directly before the Security Council session that an organised group of criminals was caught in northern Kosovo. More than 40 cars participated in the campaign with several hundred members of the Eulex and KPS mission and a special Cypriot unit, so-called. "Rossu," who harassed people, and 5-6-year-old kids put a gun to the head, allegedly looking for some criminals. And there's no crime, there's only the alleged tax evasion the minister was talking about. I think the businessmen in northern Kosovo heard his position and that he would fight for that position. On the other hand, I received information just this morning that the man against whom the investigation was launched, and has a jury account at the Commercial Bank, has been blocked by a jury account. Once again, I ask the Government's representatives to intervene at the Commercial Bank to unblock the account because the man has done nothing, he has done no harm. It's just an example of all the businesses that live and operate in the KIM area as someone deals with them, that we don't have a government that wants and has to protect us, but those Serbian institutions like TV, a bank, and that I'm not counting any further. The judiciary is doing everything on account of someone writing an indictment, and the seal is the Republic of Kosovo. If the Prime Minister doesn't believe me, I'll give you one copy of this letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50598	Well, that's your knowledge. No questions asked. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50599	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to ask you a few questions. When it comes to public enterprises, you, Mr. President, have insisted that some proceedings be initiated against the directors in two public enterprises. Let the investigation go, and you'll see what the result is. But, Mr. President, do you know that CTU has such corruption? Do you know that one of your party friends, whom they call "myster ten percent" (and now is "myster twenty percent") and Mrs. Markovic, who is there, the head of the cabinet, are working on a large scale? See if there was one tender in the last year and what was given there by the tender. Listen to CTU's employees once. Here, I'll get them to bring you all the papers. Mr. President, why didn't you want to file a case against Krishta at the airport? Do you know that there are thousands of years in Belgrade Airport if trials and investigations begin the way they're supposed to be? Do you know, Mr. President, that Belgrade Airport sold flight control land, but it made papers that it was not a sale but a 99-year lease, where a building of six floors was built and that five million euros was taken, jeeps and flats for officials located at the airport, etc.? At the time, the director of the airport, before Krist, was sent to Ski resorts and has also done a series of malfeasances and is now being removed. Why doesn't UBPOK or someone at Belgrade Airport? Why is the service in the flock the most expensive in Europe? Why does Jat lose every day at Belgrade Airport? Everyone else is privileged against our Yath. Why don't you do it? Do you know, Mr. President, that the donations from the Bundes cash register, which were transferred to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for aid purposes, were washed across the offshore company and through the Segedin bank, washed and spent on a single campaign? There's been a criminal report in the desk in the drawer for the seventh year. I'll give you all the papers, the UBPOK logs. You've got all the papers, why don't you get this procedure done? Why has the satellite procedure been suspended? Why is it allowed to "Sartid" out of date? I personally asked the Zagreb Bank question in this House. How could the defender of the Republic of Serbia give up funds in Zagreb Bank and stop it?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50600	Time. Can I help you? Who wants to answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50601	And a series of other projects? Why is there a project about Kragujevac... ? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50602	Mr. Cvetkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50603	Dear People's MP, I'd like to inform you that I fully support every crime fight. And I'm looking for an answer to an empty question why. I'm glad you mentioned in your presentation that you owned written documents and materials. I would ask you to deliver them and they will be forwarded to the organs. I, of course, have no intention of listening to anyone, because it is not in my jurisdiction, but it will do the proper service if these materials come to the conclusion that they need to take action. You said I stopped the Kristo affair. I have to tell you, I have absolutely nothing to do with the opening or closing this affair. I'd like to ask my fellow ministers to make their views known to the airport, Yat and satellites. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50604	The word is Mr. Mrkonjic. You have four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50605	As far as the airport is concerned, Mr. Ilic is probably referring to the flight control agency building. As for the land on which the building is located, it was purchased by mutually regulated obligations, I mean in your time. In your time, Mr. Ilic, not in my day. And the building was created exclusively by the means that the European Commission assigned to the Aviation Agency and all the papers and all the documentation... And it is one of the most beautiful and purest objects built in our country (at least if it is, if Mr. Ilic thinks of that flying agency building). I just said, I don't think Mr. Ilic was there, now at the airport for a man who's been there for years (I won't mention names, it's not that important right now), a prominent expert. As for the airport fee, we took steps to change it and lead to some real value. Today, I agree, it is almost half of the map, for example, in Belgrade – Titograd or Belgrade – Podgorica. I think Mr. Ilic is right and it will be settled. Of course, the airport is operating positively, according to current regulations. They are who they are and I really have no objection to the work of those people there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50606	Mrs. Malovic has, within the framework of this first part, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50607	Criminal proceedings are initiated on the basis of whether or not there is evidence of criminal offences. If they don't exist, of course they won't start and it doesn't depend on anyone's will or will. I just want to let you know that, since you've raised a question about suspending the satellite procedure, it's not true that the procedure has been suspended. The main search against responsible persons is under way, and I, as justice minister, express the expectation that the procedure will be effectively conducted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50608	Thank you. Mr. Ilichu, you have the right to two minutes and two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50609	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, it is true that a beautiful building has been built and it is true that I, as a minister, have influenced the bringing of this money and that it is done, but it is true that the airport sold it to Flight Control and charged five million euros and spent the money in private, for the purchase of apartments to cabinet chiefs, all employees who were officials, bought jeeps for everyone who was used to tour the airport and bought a jeep to the chairman of the board of directors. It is also true that we asked for these funds to come into the budget and that criminal prosecution was launched and that it was hitched. And why is that? They were obliged to deposit funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget because they are a public enterprise. They said they didn't sell, but they leased 99 years of Flight Control, and the lease funds automatically go to the company and the union so they can have whatever they want. A serious criminal offense has been committed. Both Kalicanin and Nedeljkovic and everyone there got what they wanted and spent five million euros, Mr. Mrkonjic. It's true that the building is beautiful, it stands, but I repeat, abuse of position, and how charges and everything else are charged... There are notes of certain organs that have disappeared, and that's why I raised the question. Why don't you get in control of the airport and get it all under control, check and deliver a report to this Parliament? I'd be happy to do it, and for these other procedures that are extremely important. And this 'bundes casa' that paid for the money, Mrs. Malovic, I have all the information about it and all the information about the Zagreb bank. Please make it possible...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50610	Time. You already have information from the Justice Minister, Mr. Ilic, what needs to be done with that data. National MP Milan Lapcevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50611	Let me finish this Telekom story. You just explained, Mr. Prime Minister, why you think Telekom should be sold. You listed three key reasons, and as the first reason you said the government shouldn't be engaged in entrepreneurship, so my question is in line. Since many telecommunications companies across Europe are owned by majority state-owned, in Sweden, Norway, Italy, Switzerland, Slovenia, Belgium, Luxembourg, etc., does this mean that these countries have not come to such knowledge, i.e. that these countries believe they should deal with entrepreneurship and that they are not market-oriented as you believe that the state of Serbia should be a market-oriented country and that the government should not be engaged in entrepreneurship? For another reason, you stated that the profits from the business of Telekom Srbija go to the RS budget and that you think that this should not be done, but that this dividend, or profit that Telekom is making, should go to development and that, in that sense, if the profits do not go to the budget, that is to say, the users of the services will receive better services, i.e. Telekom will provide better services. Given the experience of countries in the environment, profits that are not paid into the state budget that sold the majority package usually go to the majority owner, or the company that bought it, and very little is invested in the development of the domestic company. So that's not even a valid reason. Thirdly, the most important reason you have stated is that by selling Telekom management, it will set up a new owner to be professional and deprived of political influence. Does this mean, Mr Cvetkovic, that the current management, which you have set, is not professional and that the government and the parties who have appointed this management have political influence (in this sense, there is probably also interest of the ruling parties in this political influence)? And tell me what direct management you meant when you thought he wasn't professional and that he shouldn't be influenced by politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50612	Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50613	Thank you. I'm glad we opened an expert discussion on these issues. Since you've been going in some order I've given you, I'll try and give you an answer. When I said that the government should not be engaged in entrepreneurship, of course I still don't think it should, with an addendum – at least not in a competitive environment. What does that mean? We're dealing with entrepreneurship, let's say, in electricity, because it's not a competitive environment yet. If we had a few more companies that had several thousand megawatts of installed power, if they were close to our system, then it would make sense to get out of the EPS as soon as possible. It's simply some kind of conflict of interest, when you're inside and at the same time regulate the rules of the game and you have to protect your property. As far as other countries are concerned, as far as I know, the truth is that there is a majority state ownership in some countries. If you're interested in a particular country, I can prepare information on the environment in which it operates for the afternoon session and give you an answer to that. As for your second grudge, which is that the profits at the majority firm go mainly to the majority owner, I don't know how it's possible if legal regulations are respected. Of course, if you break them, anything is possible, but it is not possible when you reinvest a profit – you raise a joint venture and increase the nominal value of the share of all partners proportionally. If you're pulling the money out, then you have to do it on behalf of both partners. Finally, if you want to influence and gain profits through some fictitious costs as a majority partner, then there is an auditor and participation of a minority partner in various bodies and institutions, so I do not see how legally it is possible for the profit to be taken away from the minority partner. Of course, there's always an illegal way, but I'm starting here to work in accordance with the law. As for third objections and expertise, you left out the main component I was talking about, which is that the company cannot operate in competitive conditions in this system. As long as it is state-owned, it must respect certain specific regulations, which are limited to state-owned enterprises in relation to companies that are not. Let's just start with the Public Procurement Act, which has some procedures and which I respect very much. I think it's good to protect those who fill the budget, but also, when you apply that law to someone who operates in a competitive environment and where its competitors can make decisions within 24 hours, and it takes a month, you practically make it impossible and you limit it further. And to say that it will not be applied to it, then you come to the contrary, to create the possibility of abuse, etc. So this is a whole package that talks about the position of a public enterprise in competitive conditions and that position includes expertise, in terms of the ability to pay someone well enough to take the place of manager. We, of course, have a pretty good mind now from the DS, but this piece, on its basis, is more, as I would say, doing it out of the belief that it wants to change in this country than it does out of desire to make its own profit, which is not the case in these other companies that are particularly competitive. If you want, you can ask around and see how the salaries are moving for different significant functions in our Telekom and competing companies. My time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50614	Mr. Lapchev, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50615	In a very picturesque way, you have shown how much consent you have and how much you share the same opinion in the government. We just heard from Mr. Skundric, your Minister of Energy, that there is no party influence in putting personnel in public enterprises, and you are now saying that the management of Telecom is complete from the Democratic Party. What's this about? Is there any party influence or no party influence? The next thing you're completely contradictory is the expertise of management. So by selling Telecom Serbia, the new owner will set up professional management. You of the DS didn't have professional management to set up at Telecom? Then why are you getting into this business? As far as I know, Telecom Serbia has 20% of Greek Otto, whose shareholder and Deutsche Telekom, and that many procedures and processes within Telecom are currently being implemented according to all world standards initiated and imposed by that minority partner. If your problem is that in Telecom executive management is political and is not professional, and on that basis you have a grudge, you have all the mechanisms to set up an open, normal competition for people who know how to do it and who have been promoting this firm for the last ten or, let me say, 50 years. You today, since you don't have enough money in your budget and you want to prepare your election year well, you're selling it to spend your election campaign. So that's the whole point of selling Telecom, and there's no talking around that can cloud that point.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50616	Okay, time's up. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50617	Thank you. I would like to say that we really have to in some way and personal views on some things to change, because I simply listened to your question with interest – what are you dealing with if you don't already have professional management within your party? , with the same claim that management should not be political. So we need to figure out whether we want to have political management or to keep management professional. It's ideal to be both. What's here is the essence of that sale, and we actually have a different view of whether it should be sold or not, and I'm giving you economic arguments in favour of attitudes and the need to sell it. At the same time, although not caused by this, I show that DS does not want the continuity of political influence in such a company, so by selling itself. Conversely, those who say they shouldn't be sold, in fact, perhaps implicitly, I don't claim it, want secretly to keep that political interest in some other constellations. It's safe here that DS has professional people. It's a public secret that the director of Telecom is a member of the Democratic Party, I didn't say anything special and new, but, of course, our idea is to open the market, get a strategic partner tomorrow and go and close the list. We can always find reasons why we don't, why we should keep the current situation, but I'm just telling you that we have to go change. These changes are also changes in behavior and attitudes, which must mature within us. In this context, you can watch everything that happens to us in transition.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50618	Thank you. I give my word to MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Cvetkovic, I must remind you that the republican level is not... Control of public enterprises is a fundamental item where it can prevent crime and corruption. I will also remind you that certain companies formed by the City, urban enterprises, have a higher budget than some cities in Serbia. I'll also remind you that the GSP has a planned loss of 4,601,000,000 dinars. When we asked why this loss was planned, we got nothing but a response from Mr Milet Radojevic, who says – we cannot deliver why we plan this loss; if you are interested, please contact the Register. So, Mr. Cvetkovic, if we all know that only GSP's rolling stock is worth half of this loss and that those false brakes have been bought, that means that one serious control and revision of the work of the city's enterprises is needed, not just the republican ones. Especially because of the budget they have at their disposal. I'll also remind you that "Studio B" has done a great deal of assistance to the DS ( since and otherwise applies to the DS vote) and that in the pre-election campaign, he has made a pricelist that only wealthy parties, more specifically ruling parties, could honor. After a certain period, the price list was suspended by the Management Board having decided to write off debts to political parties using space as marketing in the election campaign. This led to polarisation between those parties that could use that space and those that didn't. I will also remind you of the consumption and write-off of the debt itself of "Study B", which is not naive at all, which refers to the consumption of small purchases, as the small procurement system is the largest system for the abuse and robbery of Serbian citizens. I'll give you just a few examples of how a computer's equipment is distributed into smaller parts because of the purchase of a small value. Computers – two million, accompanying equipment for monitors – million, monitors – million, computer equipment – ten million, computer network – ten million etc. This is what is the basic abuse of public enterprises, whose founder of the City, more specifically in this company, is the title of the DS. Mr. Cvetkovic, you as prime minister must take care of all citizens of Serbia, not only of the citizens of the republic or of the local level, because it is one and the same. I think we should send financial inspectors through the Ministry of Finance urgently to determine what's going on with these sums of money. If we pay back huge sums of money like this, we'll solve one part of our problems, which is crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50620	The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50621	I'm going to say very briefly that the budgetary inspection within the Ministry of Finance has its own plans, and it also visits local self-government according to these plans. So, as far as that goes, you can consider that part solved. As for the political implications of what you've been talking about, I guess these local self-governments also have some parliaments, so it's good to open it there, because it's much closer to those citizens who live there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50622	Here you go, question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50623	Mr Cvetkovic, political implications are something that has turned Serbia into black and huge debts and borrowings. I'll remind you now, because the Energy Minister is here, that Mr. Milankovic has made a contract with Končaro on the delivery of a transformer that needs to save electricity. For a year, these transformers have not arrived in Serbia, and that is the loss of tenm euros in savings. I will also remind you of the intervention of "Yugorosgas", which Mr Milankovic also made because he was employed in both "Serbiagas" and "Yugorosgas", and that we have a loss of 30m euros. So your answer, which I am not satisfied with, that political implications are such that they are not harmful to Serbia, is not correct. Please investigate both you and Mrs. Malovic's criminal charges against Mr. Milankovic, as far as the damage to Serbia's budget is concerned, because 30 million at an annual level for saving electricity, plus 10 million, that's 40 million -- just one man. So I ask you to give this answer in writing and in response to Mrs Malovic – who is finally in charge of investigating the KIM authorities, which ministry? I ask you to deliver it to us in writing, since we no longer know who to address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50624	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50625	You didn't understand me very well. I did not say that political implications are irrelevant, but I said that they can best be considered within the framework of the parliaments of local self-government, where this is happening. So I'm simply pointing out that you're talking politically there, and as far as legal implications are concerned, they're going to go from a republican level and that's what we can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50626	Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50627	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Prime Minister and members of the government, I fully understand the need for Dick Marty's report not to be politicised, because any politicisation and attempt to achieve some cheap political points can cause damage above all to Serbia and above all to the victims of this crime. In that sense, I fully understand the government's efforts to lead this business in the best interests of Serbia's citizens and I do not want to ask the question, because it is quite clear how this job can only be managed to lead to the result that we all wish for. What I would like to ask is, given the fact that we here as a second topic had a question of governance of public enterprises and responsibility for public enterprises and, which is very interesting, that all the affairs that some MPs have started here, and especially those MPs who were in government during all these affairs, so I find it quite interesting that it is possible that they never came forward by then, but when this government came and opened all these processes and all these issues, then they race to ask questions about what happened to this and that. What is also important to me is an attempt to remove responsibility from the undeniable affairs that have already had their own court epilogue and thus defamation those who have come when this government is headed by these public enterprises, which have stopped every form of robbery, corruption and launched processes within to determine responsibility, as was the case of an attack on PTT. PTT is the most successful public enterprise in the last two years, a company with 4.65 billion profits, a company that has not made any purchases without a tender, but is an attempt to show that this government has no unique view of the abuse of public enterprises being something that must be prevented at all costs. So I ask the prime minister - what are the strategic solutions that this government is looking for in the management and determination of responsibilities in the management of public enterprises, in order to prevent other political wills, which do not have the willingness to prevent abuse of public enterprises, that at any time in the future public enterprises are not a place for malfeasance, abuse and wealth, as we have seen in another time, in any other political will, this was the case?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50629	I'll try to give you an answer in a short time. What we are working on is to create in various sectors, especially in sectors where public enterprises appear and which are infrastructures of the economy, such conditions as either competition, and therefore there is no need for the state to remain there, so it is either to withdraw, or to simulate competition, if at some point it is still not possible to achieve it. I have to say that these are processes that not only apply to transition countries, but also to developed countries. Many of these countries still have some relapses, it's going one way or another, but there are some general rules that we're trying to rewrite with us. In one answer I have already said that one of the key steps in this public sector has really been made here, but I don't think it's enough. The step is already so much that we have opened up competition in the oil market, liquid fuels (not only for sale, but also for the fact that the ban on imports regulation, where competition is now emerging through import derivatives), we have opened up the competition for the issue of a license in fixed telephony and now, practically, we have only three or four segments left to concentrate on. One is Jat, where we work intensively with the desire to close it, then Railways, where it is also worked intensively (you heard Minister Mrkonjic spoke as far as we got there), and Elektroprivreda, which is the most complex and significant infrastructure, which cannot be left behind, because we have some negative experiences in even very developed countries. So, so far, there's a concept that the market is created by letting big players into the system before the system itself starts to privatise. So it's going to be another whole bunch of years until we see which way it's going to go, but we're certainly creating that competitive market. Below that you have a whole series of these hundreds of companies and thousands of people, as we've heard. They are mostly located on that local level, from cities, municipalities, etc. It is now necessary to resolve the question of either certain concessions or public and private partnerships, etc., which is all in progress. So what we want to do is, in one part of the process, we end up, and in that part where we end up, there will already be management, but not just management, it's overly simplified only for management, but for the possibility of a successful business based on market principles, but for businesses. In the part where we can't do that, the option for the meantime is to corporate and open these companies up as stock exchanges and then apply stock exchange rules that would make it impossible for some political influence to take place. In any case, these are topics that are permanent, are not resolved in a short time, and it just takes more to see what the difference between the found state and the one we leave behind is. I think there's going to be a significant difference when it comes to this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50630	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50631	Just to join this celebratory atmosphere. It is illusory for me to ask how the Law on Public Enterprises and Activities is applied of general interest. It's illusory to mention now a large number of economic operators. The public is probably wrong to read in the paper that some corruption affairs are taking place in public enterprises for whose operation, work, and composition corresponds to the most direct government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to spoil that nice mood, but before all the polls say that since Mr. Cvetkovic took the government of the Republic of Serbia, the popularity of this government has been around 138%. This is more than a hundred from abroad, but it's counting on us here. Of course, if I were to ask if a strategy was being made, I'd get, like, from a cannon, an answer – we're about to finish. I don't doubt that at all, just to let you know, we'll be changing those laws we passed in December. In December, you swore here, some of you bled, as much as it was really pro-European, Brazilian, etc. But, Mr. Cvetkovic, since you are seducing order in the country and abroad, I would like to make you a proposal, but I would ask you to answer me if you accept that proposal. You see, polls say that the most popular minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia is the man who in 2002 or 2003, it doesn't matter which, signed by a contractual termination of employment, took 40 salaries, because the state said – thank you, Pu, Pu, move as far away from the state service as possible, and then went to the SDPR. You see how the state can make a mistake, so high-quality he can write off, and after a year and a half he comes back and he's the most successful minister – guns, guns, everywhere it's exported; rockets, trucks, planes, supersonic aircraft "glista" etc. I suggest, Mr. Cvetkovic, when you want to clear these boards of directors and supervisors, that you place only those to whom the state has paid 40 salaries not to work in the state service. They're not for government service, but for public enterprises, they're masters, the best masters. Mr. Cvetkovic, did you see on the government website a list of public enterprises, agencies and receiving directors and board members? If you haven't seen it, look. Now, you're going to go to the government session in five minutes, and if it's a phone call, you don't have to go, you can finish this job on the phone from here, so look how it's written...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50632	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50633	I've got three minutes. You've been staring at me for a minute and a half, that doesn't count.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50634	It's been a little more than three minutes. The word is Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50635	I want to answer my salary. As regards compensation for the Management Board, the Government has provided specific instructions limiting the salaries of its people sent to the Management Boards when it comes to undertakings or other bodies under the control of the majority state. As far as private majority companies are concerned, we have no influence here, they themselves determine the amount of compensation there will be. As for the salary, I have to say I really have no insight. I know what my salary is, I know what your wages are, and I know that they are relatively modest compared to other countries. I don't know what's going on in the agencies, whether they're such drastic differences or not, but anyway, it's something that deserves to be looked at. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50636	I'm really happy with this answer. You did really limit the salaries of these people, but not at the bottom level, but at the top – at 378,000 dinars. It doesn't matter, it's important that the public has a chance to find out. Now I don't understand why we're in charge abroad, Mr. Cvetkovic. When we have everything nice, nice, cuddly, why is this people rebelling? How is it that the people are not ashamed not to give any recognition to such a government? The EU simply honored us with a government like this. I don't know why people talk, why they protest, why they gather in front of the government. Please reprimand them, so they don't do it anymore, that it's not real. Is it possible that this people don't deserve such a good government? Mr. Cvetkovic, the media can't fix the reality in Serbia. With your policy (and not only yours, you are right, and those of your predecessors, but since 2000, in continuity, you are all the same to me) you have questioned the functioning of all possible systems from the jurisdiction of public enterprises, and now you have epochally thought that from March 1st, the price of electricity has been rising. How is that possible? How is it possible when you are defined with a soul, heart, wallet and pocket for social justice? There's something wrong, probably the press is lying. Answer me, please, when are you going to bring the papers and the reality into line? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50637	There's a word for Prime Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50638	Thank you for your kind words about the government. When you were talking since 2000 and so on, about these problems, it seemed to me like the one when he talked and said we didn't have anything until 1941, and then the Germans came and destroyed everything. It turns out, by 2000, we had some super-supervised standard, and then some furniture came in and destroyed everything in the last 10 years. But it's not a story. Of course, I agree that people have a hard time living, but not only do I agree, but the government will do whatever it can to help them, as well as what you mentioned about the price of electricity. It is true that there will be an increase in the price of electricity, but it is also true, and that is exactly how the government manages social policy and increases the price of electricity, it is in a way that the price of electricity will only increase for those users who are not socially at risk. In other words, for all those who spend up to 350 kilowatt-hours of electricity per month, an increase in electricity prices is not valid and the price will remain at the same level. There are over a million families, so the government's social responsibility demonstration is being realized that way. For millions of poor families, there is no increase in electricity prices, and for others there will be an increase, and this will create the resources needed for the EPS to continue production and modernisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50639	Thank you. Since there are no more MPs who have a desire to ask questions on these two current topics, it is obvious that as much time as we have had so far, although there has been no more 180 minutes of answers, there has been enough to be interested in these two topics. Let me thank the Prime Minister and the Ministers who answered your questions on your behalf and on your behalf. I remind you that we will continue our work at 1600 hours. Today is the last Thursday of the month, and since the extraordinary session is under way, the first extraordinary session of this year, we will have the opportunity to ask the government parliamentary questions again, in the period from 16:00 to 19.00. Thank you. [[After breaks – 16.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16:00 to 19.00. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, by letter dated 24 February 2011, in accordance with Article 205(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have informed that the following members of the government are unable to attend today's session, where parliamentary questions are asked by the government: Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, and most of the session, most likely, will not be able to attend, due to current obligations, Ivica Dacic, Interior Minister and First Deputy Prime Minister. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP shall have the right to ask a parliamentary question to the individual Minister or Government under their jurisdiction pursuant to Article 204(1). Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. This is provided for in Article 204. Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. The Government's oral question, i.e. the minister, must be answered orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Article 216. Accordingly, I ask all Members of the People to submit applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, so that, in turn, the first word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to the pay phone. The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50641	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like two brief questions. I don't expect you to answer me now, but I expect an answer these days, as predicted. The first question is about, I believe you already know, the problem of those 60 military pensioners from Montenegro whose pension has been abolished in Montenegro because of the inability to prove they are citizens of Montenegro. They were resolved last year by a decision or an appropriate act to receive a pension in Serbia. However, since January 1st, these rights have been abolished. I don't see any reason for that, and I'd like to get an answer as to why it was done and whether their problem will finally be resolved. The second question, you must know that, is the debt to the military pensioners. An appropriate act by the government was to be adopted. It was a variant to translate it into a public debt, however, it wasn't done, so please, it's about ten billion dinars, to answer me what the government is doing and how it means to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50642	The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50643	Good afternoon again. Dear People's Messenger, you're right. I really don't have a direct answer to the question of these 60 pensioners from Montenegro. But since this session is being recorded, my associates are watching it, and I believe that during this debate, maybe that answer will arrive. If not, I will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, give an order within eight days to prepare the answer and be delivered to you. As for the debt to military pensioners, that is one very serious problem. There were talks in the government on how to get rid of it and, as far as I can remember, two months ago, a group was formed that should enter into the talks and try to find some solution that would be acceptable to all sides. Of course, it is clear that ten billion cannot be drawn from the budget, that is 100m euros, but it needs to be seen what can be done and how the state could respond to these commitments made in the previous five or six years. In that context, I'll ask around where those talks have arrived and inform you of that as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50644	He has the word Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50645	Mr. President, I really thank you for your reply, I'm personally pleased, but I would have one request, especially when it comes to these pensioners who have been suspended. It's about people who really have nothing to live on, and they're in a difficult situation, so please, in that sense, solve it as quickly as possible, because it's still about providing basic means for life. I'm also grateful for this second question. I believe that, in accordance with your answer, you will find a solution. We are aware that this cannot be solved in one year, but it is very important that it be done in one fair way and that the deadline is established, given that it has been going on for a really long time. I believe that people will be pleased to see that there is a solution, because there is a danger of antiquity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50646	The People's MP, Riza Halimi, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50647	Thank you, Madam President, I would like to address Mr Cvetkovic with one question, as regards the 2011 budget reasoning, as well as the budget explanations for the previous year. In economic classifications of buildings and construction buildings, machinery and equipment, it is indicated that they are dedicated to financing projects in Serbian settlements to prevent the migration of the Serbian population. I ask the question whether the same thought remains in the government, that it was justified, despite the fact that in these three municipalities between the last two lists we have a significant reduction in the total population, and that – Albanians are less than 10.877, Serbs 1.131 and Roma 575, while in general in the Republic of Serbia, the number of Albanians has been reduced by 16.634. After 2002, the number of Albanians in this area has dropped dramatically, both due to the catastrophic economic situation and the fact that the unemployment rate in the Albanian population is higher than the record 70%, but also because of the failure and other objective set by the 2001 government programme, which is the integration of Albanians into state authorities and institutions. In particular, this area is abandoned by young people, in addition to the difficult economic situation, and because of the very difficult situation, they are not recognised by university diplomas acquired at the University of Pristina, but also because of the major problems they have with the nostrification of diplomas acquired at the universities of Albania and Macedonia. These difficult problems should also be added to the problem of pensioners who cannot achieve part of their pension for the period of their work on Kosovo's territory, and children born in the Gjilan and Pristina fostering problems with obtaining personal documents, and hence to exercise the right to a child's allowance. Not to mention the problems of displaced persons who fled to Kosovo's territory from the settlements of the land's security zone in 1999-2001 and still cannot return to their hearths because conditions for their return have not been created so far. However, displaced persons have recently become legally invisible (almost recently used this term) because they remain without personal documentation, even without residence. In the response I received from Prime Minister Cvetkovic on February 3rd, no solution was offered for this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50648	Time. Prime Minister Cvetkovic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50649	Dear People's MP, you have raised a whole series of important life issues, I would say, and I find it difficult to give you answers to a good number of them, given that they will be the subject of the dialogue that the Serbian Government has long been prepared for – here, above all, I think of the issue of diplomacy and how these problems can be solved – so, practically, if we are looking at a solution to the problem, we should expect it to be resolved, as I said, through this dialogue. Secondly, at first you mentioned the budget classification and called for it. I think there was a debate about the budget when he was adopted, so I don't know the detail so small right now, but we're going to have a chance for the finance minister to come here a little later, that if there's another explanation from the budget. If, on the other hand, your question concerns whether it is opportunised and whether it is politically correct to enter one such item, then we will discuss it on the Coordination Body, because it knows and has insight into all the details.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50650	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50651	As far as the Coordination Body is concerned, the answer there is that the explanation for those positions was made in the Government, not in the Coordination Body, so that should be clarified. Furthermore, I would still insist on the part that I have not been able to present for a moment, and as far as my question is concerned by Mr Cvetkovic's cabinets, which, I said, I am not satisfied with for the following reasons: for the problem of the citizens of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities, from the land zone, for the period 1999-2001, the official treatment was – displaced persons, here are given explanations through the Regulation on the procedure of determining the fulfilment of the prescribed conditions for the issue of passports for persons from Kosovo. I note that these people from the municipalities of Preshevo, Bujanovac and Bear. I don't see why this regulation is listed in the answer I received. The second part indicates a procedure concerning asylum seekers. I also don't think that's relevant in this response, because they're not asylum seekers. These are citizens who, in war conditions, in the time of armed conflicts, moved out of that land zone or escaped, whatever term you want us to use, who cannot return to their hearths, yet, because conditions have not been created, at least minimally, for their return. But there are additional administrative problems ahead of them. They are now, from regular citizens, legally invisible. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50652	Time. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50653	I did not quite understand the question, but if it refers to the issue of personal documents and passports, I am not familiar with the fact that someone born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what nationality, cannot obtain personal documents. I'll check it out, and if that's the case, then that means that the administration is making serious mistakes. So, everyone born in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their nationality, has citizenship and has the right to all personal documents.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50654	Mr. Halimi, unfortunately, you no longer have the opportunity to speak, but you will take the opportunity to speak to the Prime Minister when the session is over. MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to refer to one topic in public information, and as far as we can hear today, it was in the government, and it was about collecting electricity by 15%. I will be free to say that none of Serbia's citizens in the past three or four years, whether they are pensioners, whether workers in the state administration, educational workers, health workers and others, have received so much salary increases. I ask the question – how is it possible to talk this easily about this kind of gathering, when we know exactly how difficult the situation is in Serbia? I will also remind myself that this amount of electricity collection, given the daily purchases of oil products, will lead to huge repurchases, and probably in some producers, which are involved in production, will continue to be fired by workers. With that in mind, here is the trade minister, if he read a few days ago, an amazing comparison between prices in Germany and prices in Serbia. I think it was in Blitz's daily list. Mr. Minister, when you compare 30 items in Germany and Serbia, 28 items are more expensive in Serbia than in Germany. Is that possible? Look, this is really something amazing. I'd like to take advantage of Mr. Skundric's presence and the Prime Minister. Since certain households will be subject to subsidies related to certain electricity consumption, I will be free to ask that for the citizens of the Kings, given the earthquake that was last year and that in the King is still a state of emergency, this collection of electricity will not be applied in 2011, because the Government's promises are that by October-November all those left without houses will be compensated, etc. Finally, I would also like to hear from the Minister of Education whether the New Serbia initiative, which was at the end of the year... ...that students from the territory of the city of Kings, those who are not on the budget, are freed. I have information that certain colleges in the second installment freed the payments, so I'd like to ask you if there is any concrete decision regarding it, because I have information that certain colleges have freed the students from the second war.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50656	Here you go. The Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50657	Dear People's Parliament, I will give you an answer regarding the collection of electricity, and my colleagues will answer these other questions. As you know, I was here with you during the afternoon and went directly from the Assembly to the government. These materials came up at the government to collect electricity prices. I downloaded these materials, so today the government has not made a decision in this regard. The decision, however, will be made very quickly and the decision will, in its essence, be identical to that proposed, with a time shift, so that the collection will be valid from 1 April and not from 1 March. This is very important for the citizens, because the heat season ends, winter ends and they will be in a more favourable position. Secondly, I would like to repeat once again that the increase in electricity prices will not apply to the endangered layers of the population, and that, according to the information I received, is about a million and a half families. They will not be covered by price collection, so they will practically remain subject to the existing price, and 13.5% of the purchases will apply to those who spend more electricity than the group, in the area. It's about the collection I can tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50658	Mr. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50659	Thank you. Dear President, Your Honor, Mr. Savior, I'm going to give you a brief answer to your question. Of course I read all the articles and all the reports related to price developments in both Serbia and other countries. I also saw that article in News. Only relevant to this topic are our Republic Statistics Institute and Eurostat, EU statistics. According to EU statistics, Serbia is one of the cheapest countries in Europe (meaning not only in the EU) at a general level of prices. If the average is 100, Serbia is with index 68, which means 32% of the prices in Serbia are on average cheaper than prices in Europe. Below Serbia are Bulgaria and Macedonia, for some products. It is also true that last year we had more significant price increases, but not only food, but also the housing sector, utility services and some other products, fuel, of course, and that this made it somewhat difficult for the lives of the average citizens of Serbia, especially those with modest incomes and who are on social incomes. By following all these movements from month to month, we are taking possible measures, of course not entering into the functioning of the market law, in order to make life easier for those with the most modest incomes. The prime minister has just informed you that even in the talks regarding the price of electricity we take care of the most modest ones, which is between one million and one million households, for which this collection of electricity prices, announced, will not apply to those who have the lowest consumption – if I am not mistaken, up to 350 kilowatts. Also in all other situations when there was a problem, e.g. With edible oil, somewhere in September-October last year, when it comes to the price of bread... Here we have today decided at the government's meeting on a proposal from the Ministry of Trade and Services, or the Republic of the Stock Reserve Directorate, to supplement sugar stores from the Republic of the Stock Reserve Directorate over the next six months to warn about any shortages and possible price purchases. What's a fact, it's that food prices all over the world are growing. They are partly due to political problems and the rise in energy prices, but also to higher food consumption. We are trying to contribute to the preservation of prices and purchasing power of Serbian citizens, which is not great, but the latest available data, from December of last year, says the average salary in Serbia is around 370 and some euros, which is almost ten times the average salary of September 2000. It is hard to live, there is movement and we are doing everything in our power to preserve purchasing power and living standards for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50660	Professor Skundric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50661	If you'll excuse me, honourable MPs, a few more words about the price of electricity. You heard what the prime minister said, that about a million and a half families, who have up to 350 kilowatt-hours per month, will not have a change in electricity price. I want to add here that if they pay regularly, they have a discount of 5%, so the total discount, relative to the average electricity price, is 17%. Also, I want to tell you, you know, that there's a number of households that have the status of socially endangered, which, on this basis, make these 17, have 35% discount, a total of 52%. It is about consumers who have the right to spend up to 450 kilowatt hours on a monthly basis, but since they have the status of socially endangered, they can use and use this discount. I'd just like to point to electricity prices in some countries in the environment. No country in the environment has a lower price, no country in Europe has a lower price, not even after this increase. But, for example, in Montenegro, the price is 6.9 cents, but you saw how much of the demands were made to raise the price – 85%. In Albania, the price is 8.1 cents, in Bulgaria 8.2, in Greece 10.99, in Croatia 11.51, in Slovenia 13.65 and in Hungary 15.53 cents. I just wanted us to have a sense of the size of an electric economy similar to ours. And when I tell you that the EPS is not a loser, then it can still be concluded that the EPS is responsible and that it carries a great burden of social giving in our country right now, because it helps families and also helps economic operators to be more competitive in the competition with others. Because if we had these prices that are in the environment, it would certainly affect their competitiveness in business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50662	Thank you. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50663	Dear fellow Members of the People, on the matter of Mr. Spasojevic for the students of the Kings. We asked the university to meet the students for the cost of the cost they determine autonomously, past the budget quota that the state is funding and I have to tell you that I've been informed by a large number of colleges, or by the Dean that they've come across such demands. If there are examples of different practices, I would ask you to let us know, so that we could conduct additional interviews, because I know that colleges before your initiative, and even later, were absolutely meeting such demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50664	The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50665	Mr. Obradovic, I thank you and I am glad that the "New Serbia" initiative while Minister Markovic, as one of the co-ordinators for the King, was there, that we suggested this, and that you had partly come to the meeting, although we were looking for a full amount. But what is it, it's here. As for the answer, I can, in part, agree with some answers. In any case, it is commendable that the price increase has been extended for April 1st, but if you have listened well to my question, of course it is good that certain layers of society will be spared, but a total increase of 15% for people who produce, if someone pays electricity 500-600 thousand dinars per month or more, they will automatically withdraw, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, that these people will not be able to endure, so they may have to fire two or three workers and then you will have more who will be in a difficult position. If we pass it on to an increase in prices that will surely follow, then you'll have a big problem. I can understand when it collects something that we don't depend on, but I'm sure we're quite satisfactory in this area when our electricity production is at stake, and I'm sure there was room for much smaller increases. Mr. Milosavljevic, I don't know everything you're talking about, but I just gave a single line and I didn't quite get an answer as far as possible. Then there's something wrong with that writing, but I still have to trust the press. In the end, I will ask Mrs. Malovic one question, concerning the building of the Basic and Higher Court in the King. The basic court in the King, even the lateral wing, is practically not working because of the earthquake and whether it can answer when these buildings will be rehabilitated, because it is a very difficult situation when it comes to day-to-day trials in the King.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50666	The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50667	I'm going to be very brief on this question whether an increase in electricity prices will lead to less employment. I have to say that the whole thing has to be very complex and that EPS is like the company, practically, the biggest investor in our country. We're talking about the need for foreign investment, we're talking about the need to invest in development, in modernisation, etc., and when we look at the figures, it turns out that our own company is actually a company that invests several hundred million euros every year in these things that we talked about. Failing the ability of the EPS to invest will certainly lead to a reduction in the number of employees in the country, as there will be no demand for services for all those involved and providing services or products in the investments that the EPS recites each year. So it is certain that this measure that we have advocated is actually the measure that has the best effect in the next sense – we protect those who are the most vulnerable, they are not affected by the increase, while we are strengthening the capacity of the EPS, which can then, through investment, create additional jobs. At the same time, I mean, we will, in the context of an economic policy, significantly stimulate the development and support of these small and medium-sized enterprises, but it is not the measure that these developments are now based on the EPS, but through the budget to provide appropriate channels.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50668	The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50669	As soon as the earthquake occurred in the King’s representative of the Ministry of Justice who dealt with these affairs were in the Kingdom to carry out a certain assessment of which facilities should be rescheduled and the amount of financial resources to be allocated for this. At this point, I can't tell you when it will start, but I will certainly inform myself, and you will get a precise answer very soon when to access the reconstruction and how long it will take.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50670	The word has Minister Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50671	Thank you. So he doesn't have an answer. I read that article one more time. He took the selected products into analysis, at one point in time, in different trade chains. I was talking about average values, followed by official EU statistics related to national statistics, and whether it is possible for a product to be cheaper in Germany at some point in time than in Serbia, it is likely, but the overall level of price, on average, is 32% lower in Serbia compared to the EU average.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50672	The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50673	I thank you for your answers. I would only like to finish at the end, there's the Minister of Energy, there's the Prime Minister, there's the key question is, is there a way and the possibility that the government will consider the category of subsidies for certain citizens for 2011 and that the citizens of the Kings will be without this increase in electricity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50674	Thank you. Professor, you have no right to speak. This was a comment. Let me remind you one more time. First comes a three-minute question, then a response, then a three-minute question, then an answer, and an MP has the right to comment. So it's the last of the MPs. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50675	Thank you. I don't know if I should ask the question at first. You've read several ministers who have been prevented from coming. There's another number of ministers sitting there. Looks like our prime minister was active between these two sessions, so we have a much smaller government than this morning. He's missing, he's got a 20-acre hole. But let's get back to the questions. Of course, thank you to all the ministers who came. I see that one party has brought all its ministers today. We owe them our gratitude as MPs (this is not ironic). I would like to ask a question to the prime minister that he has successfully avoided today to answer in the afternoon's debate. Since two different opinions have emerged, one was ours and the other ministers from the SPS, I am interested in the opinion of the ruling, or the largest parties in the coalition, as well as the prime minister. I'll repeat the question first, and then I'll try to repeat what we talked about today, if you don't remember. So, in the announced reshuffle of the government, which will take place within a few days, will the practice of political parties sharing public enterprises and that each political party will receive some directorial seats in public enterprises, public utility companies, companies owned by states, stock companies, all these companies? Will it break with that practice? I ask this question for a number of reasons. One is, of course, a better life for all citizens and the later work of these companies, but I have two more reasons, which are very simple. One is the condition in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that by the end of this year, I saw that it was at the same time the IMF's opinion on the negotiations they held yesterday. So I don't think it's a dictatorship. Simply, I think it's the most normal thing in the world that directorial places in companies whose own state, whatever they call them, are not the subject of coalition agreements, but the subject of public competitions. I don't know if I can narrow this down any more - will the new, reconstructed government and the new energy that will happen in early March at the end of this month give up the current practice that public enterprises are party prey?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50676	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50677	If the question is addressed to me, I can tell you that the talks that take place on reconstruction refer exclusively to the government and not to public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50678	Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50679	Thank you. This is a very good answer, even though it's short. I'm not kidding. I think that's a very good and fair answer. By investigating this topic for the past few days, wanting to speak today, I have several times come across Mr. Cvetkovic's position in the past and I fully agree with this attitude on this subject. Of course the question of whether or not it's possible to do something, it's not just one man, and we don't have any dilemmas. That's why I'd like to repeat the LDP's position again. So it's the biggest cancer wound we have in society today, in the economy and in the economy. They're party directors of public enterprises. These are companies that make up 50% of the economy of this country, where, with all the respect for your feelings as ministers, we think that the state is seriously damaged by this non-civilization activity, that there are no public competitions and that in these places... I don't know if Mr. Bajatovic is the best possible director of "Srbijagas" or if Mr. Ceran is the best possible director of "Colubare". I don't know, because it wasn't possible for the vast majority of the country's citizens to be able to participate in this place at all. And it's not enough for someone to have a college. I don't doubt someone's professional equipment, it's not a subject. Let's not forget the director of Railways. Because life disproves the data you've provided. Today, public enterprises owe four billion euros. Today, the public companies that the state grants 20 billion dinars to are only in this year. These are public companies that have huge debts, which do not participate in market business, and thus completely distort the imagined picture of Serbia as a country in which there is a free market, because they operate under special conditions. Mr. Bajatovic has the power to decide whether a glassmaker in Paracino will correct me if I was wrong, go into bankruptcy, whether to take action, in what way it will solve it. However, this does not go into market business frameworks. It just looks like good ideas. You're being denied by life. That system doesn't have any future. I know you as prime minister know that very well. I can read you your 2005, 2006 and 2007 quotes from round tables. So it can't be a subject in economic terms. State-owned enterprises, or state-owned enterprises, are making a huge loss. They're not efficient enough, they're not productive and they don't have any future. Until this thing is resolved, this country can't move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50680	Minister Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50681	I'd like to repeat that we're not giving general estimates that all state-owned enterprises are making losses. On the Kolubara case as a business society, where you mentioned the director I spoke a few words about in the morning part of the session, I can tell you that this engineer has been working for 20 years at Kolubara and this year the company "Colubara" will end up operating with a result that will be quite solid, with profits of around 20 million euros. I can also tell you, the example works, for the company of the Kostolac, that it will end with profits. As I said today, although it is not a state-owned company, but it is a state-owned company, the NIS ends last year with a business success of over 100m euros. I expect much more than those 100m euros, and credit debt has been reduced over the course of the two years by over $320 or $330m. Therefore, we cannot and should not give general evaluations. I am not defending the work of state-owned enterprises, but I am saying that in the sector that I represent here there are enterprises like EPS, which are not dealing with losses. The EPS has dealt with good results, as it has invested over a billion and a half euros over the last three years and employed tens of thousands of non-sector workers, but it is electro-machine, construction and other companies working on capital repairs, maintenance and the like. A significant number of projects have been done, both in the protection of the environment and in the general refurbishment of individual energy capacities and, therefore, we have had a stable supply of our market and our electricity and energy needs. When I talked about the fact that in some state-owned enterprises, the example works in the EPS, and how expertise must be taken into account, the Director-General is a 30-year engineer in the EPS, and I can now apologize and ask you – is it possible that no representative of your party is anywhere in that line or part of any management? I don't stand for it. Now, let me tell you right now, as professor of the university and minister of government, I believe that all positions at the level of management, and operational and strategic, should be subject to the quality-based choices these staff have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50682	National MP Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50683	I've got a little time. I'm sorry you've been trying to make me talk about some personalities all along. I don't care about the gentleman you said worked at the Colabar for 20 years. He's been an MP for five years, I don't know if he works at the Colubary. But that's not the point. Like, Mr. Skundric, our two parties in the Belgrade-level coalition, so how are the directors of public enterprises elected in Belgrade? Did your Belgrade-level officials explain that to you? So it's possible. We had a contest and, because the law in the Republic doesn't allow us to put people directly from the competition, people who won the competition were later appointed by the City Assembly. But the problem is why it couldn't have been with the SPS' consent. So I'm not accusing your party of being obstructed, I'm saying it's two approaches to the problem. I only speak politically. I can't argue with you that if you tell me that out of 700 companies you're not losing, and all 700 are monopolies, so a bigger record should be done to be losers when they have a natural resource that is the property of all the citizens of this country. As a professor, you know very well how successful it must be in a negative sense, a manager who has a monopoly and a resource to be even more and lose. It's not easy at all. So what you said isn't an argument. My question is very simple – when will the Law on Public Communal Enterprises change? When will the Business Society Act change? When will the state-owned enterprises only use their own ownership role and give up their management roles? That's why you spoil the market in the economy, you spoil the market in politics, we're not in an equal position when we compete in an economic sense, we're not in an equal position when we compete in a political sense, we're not in any way. Until this is resolved, do not tell us about European standards in other areas because they are not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50684	Time. This was a comment from MP Andric. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50685	Mr. Prime Minister, I asked you in the first half of the day if Telecom had increased its salary in January. You said you didn't know you'd answer me in writing. I asked you to answer me, you can do it by phone, you didn't answer me. But here I am going to say in the Assembly that I know that the salaries in January, the basic earnings in Telecom, increased by 10% and also, Mr. President, I know that was your proposal. There is a government decision in December that obliges members of the Management Board of Telecom, nominated by the government to increase the base of profits by 10% since January. The Telecom management was against this decision, according to my information, and it took even three meetings of the Management Board to implement this decision. According to my information, the minority partner of the Greek company Ote has not attended any of the three meetings of the Management Board, but the decision, with opposition from management, was implemented at the insistence of the government of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, there was no increase in salaries for educators, health workers, police officers, and they were increased, I say, once again, to the government's insistence, salaries at Telecom. Were they increased to calm down in some way those protests of workers and unions that opposed the sale of Telecom or for some other reason? I find it very strange that the government insists on it (if I'm wrong, deny me, Mr. President), and Telecom has an extremely successful management. I say responsibly, the most successful management in Serbia. A capable, one of the most capable in Europe. The management requested that the salaries not be increased, and if they had to, they would only increase by 2%. However, you insisted, and in the end, after three meetings of the Management Board, after the changes in all the procedures needed, the decision was taken and the salaries increased by 10%. Please answer me, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50686	Here you go, Prime Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50687	I didn't understand the question, since you gave the answer, but I can comment on it, not answer it. This morning I told you directly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that you would receive a written reply and stick to the Rules of Procedure. So in no way did I give up on that. As far as this story of yours, which may be true and may not be true, it's just amazing to me that management was on one side, and the government on the other, and that government is setting up that management. It doesn't make sense to me, to tell you the truth. I don't know the details, and I'm staying on base for the answer that you'll get in eight days, as the Rules of Procedure says, a written reply. But what you're saying is extremely illogical.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50688	Mr. Nenad Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50689	Mr. Prime Minister, I agree that it is illogical, but it is also illogical for me that the government has insisted that wages be increased, and that it insisted in December, and that there is, once again, a written decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia which is imposed on the members of the Board of Directors nominated by the Government to implement the decision, I quote - on increasing basic earnings. I'm not going to comment any further, I'm sure you know the right answer, and I'm going to use this time to ask you one more question. It is not directly related to the economy, but I think it is important for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Recently, Montenegrin Prime Minister Igor Luksic announced that he would take steps to take the centuries-long Cetinian monastery, belonging to the Serbian Orthodox Church, to use non-Nonian, anti-legal so-called. Montenegro's Orthodox community, headed by Miras Dedeic. Serbia's constitution requires the government to take care of the Serb people living outside Serbia and the government's obligation to protect the Serbian Orthodox Church, its property and to defend the interests of the Serb people wherever they live. Please answer me. What steps will you take to protect both the SPC and its property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50690	Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50691	This government has a general approach that all problems can be solved through dialogue, so be assured that we will also take what is within the scope of the agreements and talks to protect the interests of both this country and the Serb people living outside.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50692	National MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50693	Thank you, Mr. President, for this answer. I hope so. I'd go back to Telecom one more time. You were talking about the expertise of the people in Telecom, and it is likely that in some consolidation of forces in the European telecoms market, the management will not be able to withstand the race. Personally, I mean the opposite. And you and I are from the economy. In my view, the only relevant sign is whether someone is as successful as a manager, or management, is the result of his business. No matter what the head of the director who's from the DS (this is not what I'm saying by party), I think the management of Telecom is excellent, excellent. Congratulations on that. In particular, I have to say that the technical part of Telecom, the electrical engineering engineers work extremely, at the world level, and that's what the results are about. I'll just tell you a few results from Telecom. In the difficult crisis year of 2009, Telecom made the biggest profit in history; in 2010 Telecom regains the greatest score in its history and the biggest profit; the same thing, Telecom, makes the biggest growth in Europe. Again, of all telecommunications companies in Europe, Telecom Serbia has the largest growth in Europe. Also in 2008, 2009 and 2010, you will not believe, Telecom has reduced its debt by 40% in crisis years, selling its services in dinars and buying euro. Congratulations on that, too. And lastly, just so you know, by buying a 700m-euro Telecom of Republika Srpska, Telecom managed to repay more than 60% of the debt today and remained a debt to buy a Republika Srpska Telecom of just 240m euros. Great for Telecom management.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50694	Time. National MP Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50695	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, Azotara Panchevo has been privatised for 13m euros. She had ninem euros in finished products, and "Carbamid 2", as a new factory made by workers and the state, was sold from the thugs who entered such a suspicious robbery privatisation and robbed the state, Panchevo and the Azotare workers. They sold it abroad for 32.5m euros. Its accounting value was 45m euros, and according to various foundations, the state of Serbia, the town of Panchevo and the workers of the Azotare were damaged, according to my information and knowledge, by around 90m euros. What is the state going to do in this direction to compensate the state, workers and the town of Panchev and how long has the criminal act against those bastards who have done this all in an irresponsibly irresponsible and mugging manner? Mr. Prime Minister, I ask the question - since the adoption of the law on the issue of state agricultural land in the lease, how many municipalities in Serbia, especially for each municipality, have issued agricultural land for rent, in which area, in which area, which buyer, what contract has been concluded? Did the buyer honor the contractual obligations? If not, was the buyer asked to pay the principal with a tight interest or not? Why does this procedure not charge heavy legal interest, in the sense of the provisions of the Law on Liabilities? And when a citizen doesn't pay for the water or take out the garbage, he's charged a daily interest of 0.2%, so it comes out in a year 70%. So, I ask, Mr. President, that I be given a full answer regarding the "Azotara", related to the renting of state agricultural land -- how many municipalities have board members and how much do they receive from the leases? Because the commissions are taking huge funds, and when you run this analysis, and when the experts and advisors and the inspectors in the field of agriculture run a check on you, you'll see that it's a serious crime, which represents the 13th hole in your playing field when it comes to renting state agricultural land. And there's huge crime and corruption. Many billions have not charged for years, some 100, 200, 300, even millions of euros did not pay the state or cities, so they did not pay what they had rented. (President: Time. Let me finish, I have another sentence. (President: Finish. In Dolovo, a bid was made the other day. No bids of 800 acres. But you know how bidding ran? He kept raising the plate just one and in the end they all kept quiet, but it went between 11 and 15 grand, instead of being 40,000 rents... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50696	It's a long sentence. Prime Minister Cvetkovic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50697	Dear People's MP, I'll give you my answer in one piece right now, and in the other part, here, where you're looking for who are members of committees in various municipalities, it still needs to be prepared, to see, there are many municipalities, 160-170, and commissions, etc. You asked what the situation is with Azotar and what the state is doing and what it will do. I want to tell you that the privatisation of "Azotara" was unsuccessful, just as you described it, that the customers of "Azotara", after they took it, instead of developing it, sold one piece, and got a multiple amount of money for it than the amount paid for "Azotara". On this basis and other observations as they generally carry out contractual obligations, it was concluded that their behaviour was not in line with the contract signed and the contract was terminated. After the contract was terminated, the processes were launched in two directions. One direction is internal, where they are asked for damages. I'm not entirely sure whether the process is already running or collecting documentation. I think so, but I can check. In any case, it is an internal process, which takes place in front of domestic courts. The second process is the international arbitration in Washington, launched by those buyers, who believe that the termination of the contract put some of their rights at risk, etc. So we are actually in the middle of certain disputes, where each side has its own arguments, and when it comes to the state, we will definitely use all the arguments that we have, including those that you have now listed here and where I can at the most confirm that it is exactly what you said. So, what's the state gonna do? They will participate actively in these processes and will fight before arbitration, or courts, to win and solve these processes in our favor. What's the state doing now? We've launched a process that would put Azotara on its feet, so that a certain number of people who work there continue to work, not lose their jobs and find themselves on the street. Along with the people of the Serbians and above all on their initiative... Because, let me remind you, "Serbiagas" is the largest gas supplier of "Azotara," and gas in "Azotari" is not energy but raw materials, and it participates with a high percentage in costing. So that's why the engagement of "Serbiagas", which is, by the way, one of the biggest or possibly most trusted. Together, it is working to find a strategic solution that would allow "Azotara" to return in the next period and again stand on its feet and start working efficiently, productively and, if you will, profitablely. Because "Azotara" is important to us not only because of the azotaras as well as the people who work there, but as one of the pillars that feeds our agriculture artificial fertilisers, and you know that agriculture is one of the basics of our economic development in the coming period. That's the answer to "Azotara." As for renting land, crime, etc., I don't know about crime, and if you know, give me information. As far as the list of people who are members of the committee is concerned, we'll pass on that question, so you'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50698	Thank you. Petar Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50699	Mr. President, you've made it indisputable. These events that took place in "Azotari" were headed exactly the way I mentioned it, and you confirmed it. As far as crime is concerned, there's Mr. Home Secretary, so I'm asking the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. Okay, the minister of justice is independent of courts, will not interfere with their independence, but I ask the question – is there or is there no criminal record against some people who participated in privatisation? Secondly, it is indisputable, Mr. President, that "Azotara" was built in 1963 as a plant for the production of artificial fertilizer and it is of very important strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, because citizens of Serbia, or farmers, should have cheap, good and quality fertilizer, not what was previously imported through various smuggling channels. I see the Azotara leadership is taking appropriate measures to establish normal conditions, prevent abuses and improve the production process. I advocate and propose to the government that it help the Azotara on its part to work full capacity because it is of strategic importance to the Republic of Serbia. When I spoke earlier about renting state agricultural land, I remind you, there are a lot of crime in that area. If it is not available, but you first carry out the audit, order the Ministry of Agriculture to inspect, you will see how much funds comes at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget from the lease of state agricultural land. You will see how the tycoons from Croatia managed to take three or four thousand hectares to rent state land. You have seen 500 companies from Croatia operate in Serbia, and from Serbia in Croatia we do not have, perhaps one or two firms, and here we have allowed them to build chains of trade, to take state agricultural land, to occupy Vojvodina and Serbia when it comes to the business of their companies. But you see, there's no real protection, there's no justice, there's no truth. Does the government of the Republic of Serbia, based on reciprocity, provide our citizens from Serbia with the ability to trade, that they also acquire some capital there in Croatia? In that direction, Mr. President, you should take care. By the way, I can tell in the end that about 50 companies in Panchev were privatized and that it went to nothing. Pancho's...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50700	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50701	I'll be done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50702	Mr. President has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50703	Before I give my word to my colleagues, I still think it's important that I say at least two or three sentences, so I don't get misinterpreted. So I said in my speech that I had the information that they had actually sold part of the company for a significantly higher price than they had paid. I don't want this to be seen as some kind of pressure on courts or arbitration, it's ongoing, and I don't define who's guilty and who isn't, but I'm simply saying that the state, through its agents, or representatives in those processes, is going to fight to prove that it's right. That's all I wanted to say, so it wouldn't be interpreted as if I had already reached a verdict in advance, etc., so that I could put pressure on, essentially, independent organs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50704	Do any of the ministers want a word? Mr. Dacic, do you want a word, since part of the question is addressed to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50705	From what I understand, the question is, are there any criminal charges? I'll check and I'll get you an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50706	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50707	I'm asking the Prime Minister to answer my question and whether a person is being prosecuted for privatising the Azotare. I didn't want to, nor did I think that the Prime Minister or the Minister of Justice could comment or present facts he wasn't familiar with. I'm just asking if there's a procedure going on, criminal, litigious, whether it runs in front of international arbitration in Washington (the president explained it), because the public is Pancheva and how interested in these issues that are of vital interest to the Republic of Serbia. The damage is not to be applied to the state by anyone, and this is indeed a robbery privatisation, which existed, because in Panchev, about 50 companies were sold and no one knows after they were sold. Panchevo was once the richest city, one of the richest in Vojvodina and Serbia, had more income than the whole of Montenegro, and now it is the poor town. There's a poor woman there, there's no workers who have solved social problems. They don't have any pay, they don't have anywhere to work, they're practically on the streets. So please, Mr. Minister and Mr. Prime Minister, in this area, the Government shall take those measures to which it has the right and obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50708	National MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50709	Dear Prime Minister, ministers, president, respected colleagues, I agree that the government's reconstruction is a step towards the economic and efficiency of the functioning of the state administration and I agree that fish should be cleaned from the head. However, I believe that if we do not reorganise and carry out a deep analysis of the need for the existence of hundreds of agencies and directorates, we will not go far on the path of efficiency of the state administration. It is very important to find an excuse for the existence of so many agencies, especially that we all know that the agencies are the refuge of party personnel, and I think that one analysis that would point to the need and means that should be determined by the agencies was necessary. Next, I'm interested in government policy in the future. We, and this is not the specialty of October 5th, 1990s, produced controversial businessmen, who became tycoons after October 5th. I want to ask whether the government's policy will be directed at those who are on the misfortunes of the people and those who, it can be said, using the holes in this country's system and law, have been enriched, will they bear the greatest burden of the economic crisis that we are in, knowing that in various ways they have avoided paying taxes and knowing that they have been privileged in the previous period. I'll make an example of Finland. There if an ordinary citizen, who receives ordinary wages, does not pay the same penalty as when an offence makes an extremely wealthy man, but pays much less punishment. Therefore, one who is richer must also identify greater resources to fill the state budget. It is very important, therefore, that the government's clear policy in the future ensure that those who, using the privileged position, and we know who they were, the various ministers from Milosevic's establishment, pay the greatest burden of this economic crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50710	The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50711	I understand that there are two questions. One thing is about agencies and another about punishing those who have sinned against the law. When it comes to agencies, I can tell you that there is an analysis that should put on the table all the agencies we have and determine whether there is a overlap between various agencies, councils or some commissions, etc., and to streamline certain abolitions, mergers, etc. What's quite certain now is that agencies, even though they have the name of the agency, can be very different. One group is so-called. regulatory bodies, which are basically not part of the government, but are independent, and you have agencies that are part of the administration and are tied to the government. As I said, the analysis is ongoing and in some foreseeable time, and I cannot speak in days, we will have the results of this analysis, which will be about, as I see them, the following – will determine which agencies are indisputable and those agencies will remain, of course not to be hacked into agencies representing regulatory authorities, and among those others will be determined which are really unnecessary and they will be shut down, and which do similar work will be merged into one. It will be done in two ways, depending on how they came to be. If they were created by the government's decision, then the government's decision will resolve their further fate. However, there are a number of agencies created under the law and then a proper procedure for amending the law will be launched. So that's our firm position on the agencies, and we'll try to do that. I don't think there's any need to say that we're definitely going to go to the point that all those who have become rich using illegal means will, of course, have to respond. In principle, I think we have to stop, and not only do we have to, but we will also stand by the strict application of the rules that will bring out whether we have, what are these cases and who are there how it went.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50712	Here you go, Mr. Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50713	I'll be very brief. I have here a list of some hundred state agencies and bodies, including the Antidoping Agency, and I think it's too high to have agencies that have no excuse for their existence. I'd like to make another suggestion. I think it would take all donations, sponsorship, celebrations and celebrations of public enterprises in this time of economic crisis to be abolished and that the government is urging public enterprises to reduce these costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50714	The People's MP Esad Djudjevic is not here. Zlata Djeric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50715	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have no luck, both ministers to whom I would ask the question are not present. One just left, but good. I will refer the first question to the Minister of Agriculture (which, by the way, I have to say, answers very neatly and comprehensively to parliamentary questions), which is a question that comes from southern Serbia, from farmers who have registered agricultural holdings, who regularly pay their tax obligations but do not pay to the PIO fund and are excluded, although it has been proven that they live exclusively from agricultural production, from the Ministry's subsidies, so they ask why they have no right to achieve that type of aid to the state of agricultural production. I expect a very quick and exhaustive response from the Minister of Agriculture, as he has been cooperative in this regard so far. The second issue concerns the police minister, who has just left, the interior minister, and is related to all those people arrested at the time of the Belgrade Pride Parade. These are the people who have expressed their disagreement with it. Many have accidentally arrived and are still in custody, so I am interested, and their families are much more interested, and also Serbian citizens, when they will be released from custody and whether it was really necessary that, because of some position everyone has the right in a democratic society, people be imprisoned all this time. I'll ask the third question to the prime minister. I expect him to say, given that a very successful examination has been completed, the lecture answers the EU's questions, everything they were interested in was followed in all the media, you personally handed over that CD and all those boxes of answers, but in those answers it was found, both in our public and in the public of the EU, what is not good, that the most corrupt health sector in Serbia is just the most corrupt. So, not only the corrupt, but the most corrupt. If we have something "we do", that means we have a graduation of that phenomenon and there's a pretty dead race between the sectors, but, well, the health sector is the most corrupt. The health minister, who has the luck or the choice to be the Minister with the longest internship in the Republic of Serbia (ten years leading the sector), recently resigned, for deep personal reasons. Of course, because he is the Minister with the longest internship in the most corrupt sector, I expect the prime minister to take certain steps and inform the public of Serbia what his responsibility will be in matters of very painful and very sensitive affairs in the most sensitive sector of society, which is health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50716	Thank you. He has the word of Snezana Malovic, minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50717	I'll try to give you an answer to this question that you asked the minister of police. I don't want to be his spokeswoman, but he couldn't answer that question either, nor could I, as justice minister. Since the moment of criminal charges, the police have done their job in some ways and then the judicial authorities – the prosecution, and the courts. So, compared to those in custody, they are based on riots that took place on the streets of Belgrade during the Pride Parade, the only relevant authority that can decide when they will be in custody is the court and I am deeply convinced that he will make his decision under the Criminal Procedure Act. So as long as they need to be in custody, they'll be there, and the moment the conditions stop, they'll be released. Also, as justice minister, I express my expectation that these procedures will be effectively implemented. Depending on whether there's evidence, we'll either get a conviction or not. I don't want to talk about it any further because it would be a interference in the work of the judicial authorities, which is no one's intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50718	Thank you. Please, the Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50719	If I understand you correctly, you asked whether the minister would be responsible for what he wrote in an answer or if it was estimated that the sector he dealt with was the most corrupt. I think anyone involved in corruption, whether he's a minister or not, will answer. You've seen that in the last year's proceedings, we've had several affairs in which they were even present, that is, part of these affairs were also very high-ranking officials within the healthcare institutions, thus it's demonstrated that there is no function to protect one from what he's done. However, to say that the former minister is involved, I think it's a little excessive. I just can't comment on it that way. I can tell you generically that anyone involved, when the investigation comes and comes to him, will be convicted, even if it's him, me, or at least any of us sitting here. So, of course, if something is determined, everyone will be involved, but based on generic numbers we're accusing someone, it comes a little too boldly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50720	Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50721	I don't think I used the term "involved," but I certainly used the word "responsible." I really think that someone who has been running a resort for ten years should, above all, feel responsible, and secondly, rule that responsibility over a sector for such serious work really needs to be reconsidered. But certainly, the court of time and the court of the public will give their opinion, as will the public of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, until we reach some other authorities that will have to do so under official duty. What I wanted to ask as a question to Mr. Prime Minister is not related to any concrete proposal, but as an MP and a representative of citizens, it really bothers us, it is a parliamentary issue – an institutionalised issue of citizens of the government. We know that this is the highest home in which citizens can ask questions and rightly expect to get an answer. That's how we, all the representatives of the people, feel here and set ourselves up. They're not always pleasant, sometimes they're painful, but they have to be asked, questioned and answered. Since it was a cabinet session today, I have to ask you if you had a quorum at all, since ministers are coming to such a dramatic atmosphere, and we know that we have 27 ministries and 27 ministers and vice-presidents of the government. We can see here, folksly speaking, not even a frittata of the government who has come to answer the questions of its citizens that it represents. Several ministers, I think only three, justified their absence, with one even coming in the meantime, Mr Dacic came and went, although he announced and justified his absence. It would be good, this is even a suggestion, that the citizens' ministers this way, through the media, because citizens follow this, send us messages and suggest questions, so to justify their absences because they're being paid by these citizens. So no one here has become a minister because it is God's day, but because it was the will of the citizens who were placed through this parliament and the parliamentary majority, whatever it is, modest or immodest. I expect the prime minister to bring the future government before his citizens, at least this day of the month, one afternoon, this three hours, answers his citizens publicly to questions that they ask and have the right to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50722	The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50723	Here, let me answer your question and comment on what you said. The government had 27 members prior to these resignations, and the quorum was 14. We are now 24 and the quorum is 13. Of the necessary 13, today's session began with 20 members of the government and ended at 18, as two had to do something during the session to get out, so there was no problem at all about the quorum. When it comes to voting, we had about fifty points (I don't know exactly what number, maybe more than 50, along with the part that's classified) and for all points we had, except for one, full consent, so we didn't have any votes against. We had one vote against only one point and that vote against wasn't by coalition partners that you might expect it to be. So that's about how the last cabinet session went. It has passed in a constructive and good atmosphere. My comment on what you said about bringing more members here. I have to tell you, it was really bothering me and I had to take a look at the papers, to understand whether I was coming here and inviting members of my cabinet or the Assembly to call each and every one of them, and then he came or didn't come. The papers say I don't bring them. So it says in the papers that I, like every single member of the government, am invited by the Assembly and everyone who has not come is not responsible to me, but is responsible to you. He's responsible to me when he doesn't come to the government and then I can say, "I'm sorry, you weren't on the road, you're not on the government -- and then I'm going to go to sanctions." Here I am, practically, called face, who, as you can see, is responding to your calls. I'm happy to talk to you all day, next Thursday, maybe half a day, etc. That's my comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50724	Thank you. So the congregation services invite every minister, every member of the government. Mrs. Djeric has a desire to comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50725	Just a brief comment. I thank you for your response, and that is exactly what I wanted to hear, that is, what the public of Serbia needs to hear. I don't think you're responsible for some minister coming or not coming, but the public of Serbia needs to see which ministers are coming and which ones aren't coming. We will, of course, be all one day, very quickly, exposed to the court and the public in the elections, which will be premature or timely, but in any case, we will all face the citizens of Serbia, who, believe me, this is one of the sessions that they prefer to monitor and comment on. I apologize for being free, but in a situation like this, when you said what you said about the government members and about your responsibility, which I really don't think there is any response to Parliament itself, I must say, I'm a bit of a bankruptcy manager in this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50726	MP Bojan Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50727	President, Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to me, I have to admit, it's hard to be sharper than Mr. Jugovic, who just spoke. I hope what's here with us right now isn't some symbolic gesture and you won't have to call the President of the Republic again soon. I'm just kidding, of course, and thank you to the Ministers Milosavljevic and Obradovic, who are here now. We haven't had a chance to talk in the morning, but I have to get back to the subject of unfortunate public enterprises. You, in a sense, President, have said that you personally advocate different rules of business, namely the appointments of those who will manage these companies, and that is enough just to send one law here to the Assembly and to change the coalition agreement afterwards. I think you will have support for such a bill here, even though according to today's debates, and I believe that you will also have public support, judging by the comments that appeared in the media in the statement that we heard here this morning, that directors and people who operate public enterprises are hiring or selecting exclusively according to the criteria of expertise. You know, we live in a pretty crazy situation. Okay, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, a public official who comes into office, has to transfer management rights to his private company that he has in order to carry out that duty, and then gets to run a state-run company, a public company, whose traffic is several dozen or several hundred times larger, in which in many things discreetly decides, many of these companies are monopoliestic and everyone pretends to be fine. Secondly, at some point you were talking about price collection, that is, that today you have taken down the proposal for a decision from the government's agenda. I believe that if you can remove such a decision, then you can impose your own personal, professional, and I also think political opinion that in a different way, namely that only public competition should be chosen by the directors of public enterprises. The third thing, with all the understanding and support of your idea that for the most endangered layers of population, household or family in Serbia should not be increased prices, you have brought here one fragrant data. You, as Prime Minister, have said – for the most endangered, or for a million and a half households, if I understand correctly. My conclusion is that there are a million and a half endangered households in Serbia, which is three, three and a half, maybe four million people. The good part is the cause of this difficult social position of these people and what we are talking about today – four billion euros in accumulated debt of public enterprises, "artificial ironing" the final accounts of some other public enterprises that do not have, according to Mr Skundric, at the end of the year, a loss, and they do not have it because the deficit in business is covered by a loan taken and guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. A few days ago, I tried to get that answer from Mrs Dragutinovic. She didn't answer that. I hope you can do it. What is the state of these guarantees, i.e. how many Republic of Serbia, so the budget, all citizens pay at the end of each year in these last few years since these guarantees and payment took hold of them? In 2009, only for the benefit of three public enterprises, it is one small part of the EPS, but primarily the Railways and the Roads of Serbia, seven billion dinars were paid, which is, in the course of that time, 75 million euros, and not a single euro, not one dinar from those funds was paid back, although it is also a public debt obligation and according to the rules of bonds and trade law, that when the debt is paid...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50728	Time. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50729	You asked me one question, that is, in your presentation you mentioned my professional opinion, so I could take the opportunity to present it, although I didn't think the Assembly was the place where professional opinions were held. My professional opinion is that what you're running, just like your colleague Andric started, is essentially wrong. So we need to fight for the introduction of markets into classical sectors where monopolies are located, not to think about whether parties or non-partisan people will be elected in enterprises that are in the monopoly. So the point is, and I insist, at least at the level of the Republic, that we enter reforms that will allow the market to enter those sectors. If we do that, then the manager's question will be irrelevant. Why? If you set up an incompetent man, whether he's a party or not, he'll just be out of the market. If you set up a capable man, he'll make it to the market to fight. So it's not a question of whether a man is a party or not, but it's a question of how much and how fast we put the market into those sectors. It's the essence of things. That's why I think your stocking might actually be based on good intentions. We need to focus more on market integration and the creation of market competition in classical sectors. In that sense, and only leadership, which, as far as I can see, is being treated here as the Director General... Basically, when I say management, I don't think at all about it at all, or maybe not even just the CEO, but the weed that's underneath it, who have to be cruel professionals and who basically do the job. In this context, you can't have good management, no matter how good your director is, if you don't have that crust down there, and you can't have that weed if he's in state property and if he's in a position to attract you, better wages and better offers, other businesses. I would also like to comment on the question that you have raised as a relationship between the individuals who resign, which is to transfer the right of management to their businesses, and now they manage the state. It's an attempt at a picturesque comparison that seems to me to have no basis. You essentially have the state as the legitimate owner of certain enterprises, things, etc. Who's the one who needs to manage what's state on behalf of the state? Of course, elected representatives of the state. We're not going to be able to avoid party delicacy right now, are we? To avoid party delicacy, we're not going to find some on the street that have nothing to do with it, and we're not going to put them there to lead it? And it's not even any democratic practice, etc. On the contrary, you have a clear -- the state owns it, and this is its property and the state delegates its best people to take care of state property. If they're not doing it, they're doing it for their own good, then, of course, it's a crime, it should be punished, etc. About a million and a half families, if there were so many poor, I'd just like to explain what this is really about, so there's no confusion. First of all, the idea that I was handling in proposing this release was basically, let's say, let's say that the poorest don't have the pick-up, and that those who are richer than them have to pay more, because of all the reasons we talked about. The question arises which are the poorest and you have more methods to reach them. One of the methods is that you have, for example, a social map and you simply say by that list – this one won't pay, this one won't pay, etc. We do not yet have a completed social map for our country and we do not have information about individuals who are poor, but we have now used a special method, which is approximately this way – the poorest one is the one who spends the least. And that's not some method that's specifically invented. One who spends the least electricity means he has the least money, because the assumption is that if he had more money, he would spend more money. We put one cross-section, 350 kilowatt-hours. As a result, there are about a million and five hundred thousand numbers (that is, we called it household), but there are 200-300 thousand numbers that do not refer to real houses, but to cottages, so that will practically include maybe a million and 100,000 households. These are the ones we give that opportunity to. Since they spend a little, they're poor for us, and the poor shouldn't pay more than they've paid so far. So that's the methodology. There may be rich people among them who spend a little, but we didn't have the method to do it, as there may be some who are poor but spend a lot, but it was simply the only criterion. I don't think he's probably 100% accurate, but he's probably one 90-95% good, because otherwise he's applied to other analyses to assess who's richer and who's poorer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50730	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50731	Mr. Cvetkovic, of course you're absolutely right that the point is to open the market or end the monopolies. The problem is that this way of managing, delegating party personnel and putting them at the top of that system is an obstacle to doing so. On the other hand, in some sectors the elimination of monopoly or competition on the market will not be for a variety of reasons. Of course no one said people should be taken off the street. That's totally amazing. I think it's a good example (believe it or not, that'll say LDP) of what happened at NIS. It wasn't "Gaspromneft" who bought NIS and then brought people from "The Unique Russia" by Vladimir Putin or people from the street, but some cruel professionals, as you say, and they did, in conclusion with this year, if I'm not mistaken, at least 100 million euros in profits. I hope the Republic of Serbia has 49 million. He's nodding his head, Mr. Skundric. If you're saying that they're important professionals below that, some middle level, and that they exist in NIS, I guess most of these people aren't Russians, they're people from here. They're the same people who worked at NIS three years ago. If they were unable to achieve such successful results before that, I think the only answer is that what was top management and government management was an obstacle to that, or the loss generator that was huge in those years. That's the essence of what we're talking about here. Of course there are a million other examples. Ten days ago, I was in Krushevec. There is a Public Enterprise Kruševac Airport. I really don't believe there's an airport in Krushevac or that there's a need for it. Then I asked around and they told me there were seven people working there. Of course it's all party shots, but it's less important. It is a strategic decision and a decision on what you will invest in and what you will do. And you can also build Podokin's villages and dream of the Belgrade-Kruševac airline. Nobody does that seriously. Whether it's on one or the other side of the world, whether it's at Gazprom, in "Eni" or in any serious company, it doesn't plan that way, so it seems unreasonable to me that it's also planned in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50732	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50733	I'll just say it in one sentence. If you think that Gazprom has appointed only the director, and that the other echelon is mostly ours, I can tell you that you're wrong. I had a chance to talk to their leadership and in that group of four-five people who came to me, I don't know if any of them were ours. Of course, it's their right and I don't complain about it, but just to tell you that you don't think they brought only one man. All the management, the investment man, the finance man, they all came here. Gazprom is not a state and they behave cruelly, economically, and that is what we need not only in NIS, but in any other company, public or private. That's what it takes for the state to be economically successful.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50734	Here you go, commentary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50735	And we, of course, looked at these people's professional biographies, the ones that are top-level in NIS. They are frightening in a positive way and I am sure that none of them have ever been an MP in the Russian Duma and that they have no ambition to do so in life and that it does not need it to make it easier for him to do his job in NIS, Novi Sad or Belgrade or Russia or anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50736	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50737	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days the government of the Republic of Serbia is about to announce a time for negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina to begin. Belgrade is ready to negotiate, the negotiating team was formed, appointed head of the negotiating team and the negotiating platform probably agreed. Others have agreed on some technical details and dialogue, according to the government, can begin. Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, as I do, the MP in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with KIM and a member of the KIM Committee, we are not familiar with the negotiating platform. I am taking this rare opportunity to ask you, Prime Minister, the next question – what topics will be discussed between Belgrade and Pristina?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50738	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50739	You know what, the negotiating platform was built in a closed part of the day's work. I can't talk about what kind of platform, themes, etc., except generic. I can only tell you that we are ready to lead the dialogue on all topics, from the most terrestrial ones, about life, to the most non-sustainable ones, about the status at all, etc. We're open and ready to talk about everything. In what order will it be, I guess the order will be such that at the beginning, we put on topics that we think will be easier to find solutions, to make some kind of success, and then we can talk about greater chances of the success of complete negotiations than put on the difficult topics at the beginning and be an element of our disseminating. Anyway, we're for topics from zero to plus infinite. We have, as you said, a well-established negotiating team, we have the head of the Negotiating Team, we have occasional briefings, agreements, etc., and we've been ready, practically, for two months now and we've been waiting on the other side, to see when they're available. I think it'll probably be in March.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50740	National MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50741	Contrary to the Belgrade Negotiating Team, there have been reports from Pristina these days that Pristina has also formed a negotiating team, that during today she too has appointed the head of the negotiating team, but unlike you, Mr. Prime Minister, who think there will also be negotiations on the status of the southern Serbian province, Mr. Thaci has said that the Kosovo government is ready for dialogue, but without changing status and territorial integrity. Given the amended resolution of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which it has agreed with the EU, certain secession and open issues have been left out. We have no possibility and no room left for the negotiating team to conduct negotiations on the status of the southern Serbian province. Now I ask you -- how and is there even a possibility, after this resolution handed over to the Security Council, that the Belgrade Negotiating Team is in charge of negotiations on the status of the southern province?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50742	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50743	I've already told you that we're open to talking about everything, including status. That's what I told you. Of course, if the other side does not want to discuss a question, it is difficult to put it on the agenda. But then again, on the other hand, I think that, with certain efforts and goodwill, we have the chance and opportunity to talk about a solution that would be acceptable to all sides and that would not lead to a solution that is closed, where the problem is put under the rug and left for future generations. Because, as we know, in these areas whenever you bury the problem, maybe in five, ten, twenty years, he suddenly jumps out and gets very cruel and cruel and much worse than you expected. What I'm trying to tell you is that we're ready to talk about all the topics, from minus infinite to plus infinite, and we're going to see how the talks are going to develop. If the two sides are talking, and one of them won't start the topic, it's hard for this other party to impose on her, unless it turns out that it can be useful for both sides. I don't know if it's too much to talk about, especially considering that I want our side to perform with some kind of maximum preparedness, not to put its views forward in public. I think we're well-prepared, that the start of the conversation is well-set, and I look with optimism at their setting.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50744	Mr. Milentievich's comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50745	Mr. President, I cannot possibly be satisfied with your response that it depends on Pristina's goodwill whether or not we will be able to conduct negotiations on Kosovo's status. You tricked us with the Six Point Agreement -- Ban Ki Moon, which apparently served a diplomatic victory. You tricked us into accepting the Eulex mission as status neutral, and you knew that they would implement Ahtisaari's plan and create an independent state of Kosovo. And now you're making the most of us wrong by negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina. Because, with the amended resolution, submitted to the UN Security Council, agreed with the EU, you have ruled out key provisions on the non-acceptability of unilateral secession, as well as an invitation to resolve all open issues of negotiations through dialogue. It is definitely an act of capitulation of the government of the Republic of Serbia in front of the ultimatum of major forces, namely Western forces, to take away Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50746	MP Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50747	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a question for the Prime Minister and I ask him to answer me specifically. I believe he is a serious man and a serious expert and will answer this question about the EU in line with the reality that exists in relations between the Republic of Serbia and the EU, not in line with those phrases we hear from so-called. The SNS, about some idyll that rules between the Republic of Serbia and the EU. In particular, you were with EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan File on 31 January and handed him the answers to the EU questionnaire. I hope you agree, as a serious man, that it is a formal gesture and that it is not a key step, as it was tried to present itself in the propaganda that is present in our country. Because if it is known that the issues refer to the fishing fleet and similar nonsense, and it is known that Serbia has no sea precisely because of the EU, then it is clear that it is the right centre of decision-making in the EU, and it is well known to anyone who has been dealing with the European Union in the European Council and the Council of Ministers. My particular question in this regard is – will Serbia accept those decisions that will be at the expense of the Republic of Serbia in economic and political terms by the end of this year, when a decision of the European Council and the Council of Ministers concerning the candidate of the Republic of Serbia is made? In the political sense, above all, I think of KIM, and in economic terms, you will admit as an economist, we have not heard any arguments that there is a bone-benefit analysis whether Serbia is at all worth entering the EU and whether money is going towards the EU in a greater amount than the other way around. Please give me a concrete answer to these questions and tell me if the European Council will appear, as an informal body, which will condition Serbia further and further. Of course, you can say it won't happen, but we're realists. Not pessimists, but we are realistically looking at European integration. You will admit that there are over 80% of countries in the European Council that have recognised the so-called Kosovo. Let's add to this and the fact that it's about to change, according to the Stability Pact, and that the funds from Germany and France, the greatest advocates of independence, so-called. Kosovo, head south, towards those who are threatened, Spain, Greece and others who have not yet recognised the so-called. Kosovo. I ask you to answer specifically whether you will recognise any, or even an unfavourable decision of the European Council, which will most likely be made at the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50748	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50749	You've established that the questionnaire is actually one formal thing. I don't think you're quite right, but you are right in that sense that it is not only a questionnaire that is important for our further progress on the path of European integration. So, it could be vividly said that the questionnaire is something that shows a picture of our current situation, and that what we need is not to show the situation, but to make reforms and changes in order to change the economic and political system and adapt it to the EU's economic and political system to a sufficient extent so that we can get candidate status and start accession negotiations. The questionnaire will go its course, as you have already said. He's not exactly formal, there's a lot of work done, they've received us with quite great respect, given the deadline in which we did it, the day-to-day missions come to compare the answers from the questionnaire with the real situation on the ground, there'll be additional questions, we'll answer that, etc. That flow is going and it's going to end, I'm convinced, in a positive sense. Along with that, along with the questionnaires, there are these changes, reforms that we need to complete. We agreed with them what are the key reforms that should be done during this year, within which deadline they should be done, so that we can say then – our country has changed enough and deserves to get candidate status and start negotiations. Less or less a large number of these reforms are actually related to this home, for you and you will have the opportunity to make known there about certain laws that will come. We put these reforms in one action plan that should end sometime by the middle of this calendar year, by the end of June-July, so we would have everything put on the table and we could move on on the path of European integration. I must say, since you belong to a group of Eurosceptics, it probably won't be very pleasant for you and that's why you ask such questions, which I understand. So if your program is different, then it doesn't suit you that someone successfully realizes the program in another direction. But well, it's simply a positional relationship between that attitude and the attitude that I represent. But the way I look at it, we're going to do everything on our side, and with optimism, I'm looking for a positive ending in that regard. When you ask me if we will accept economic and political concessions, I must immediately say that, in fact, we are entering the European Union, among other things, because we need that integration and because it is economically very justified for our country. That justification can be explained throughout a series of examples, but I'm going to give you just two or three. First, that it is better to have a market than a billion people and to be a citizen of such a large group, shows you the recent past. So, in the '90s, when we were isolated, when we were alone, when we didn't have the opportunity to contact, we went backwards in every way. In doing so, I don't just think about some poverty that has come apart, but I think about the loss of relationships and relations with technological development. We were constantly going down and then, simply after ten years we woke up and sure that our re-insulation, separation from Europe, abandonment, that others get into integration, and our staying, is economically extremely unfavourable. Therefore, let's conclude this, whether for us the EU is economically profitable or not, there is no dilemma for me. I believe that it is absolutely worthwhile, because of this reason that I have stated, and to leave other reasons, such as, say, the issue of unemployment, where you become a citizen overnight of a wider group that recognises you as its citizen and where, in one location or one place, you have unemployment, and on the other hand, jobs are offered, certain migrations solve it relatively quickly. So there is a sea of reasons why this is economically justified, not to say the reasons that are already embedded in these reforms, because they are economically successful because they have a successfully organised economic and political system and through the reforms that we are doing, even when we are not members of the EU, we are entering a system that is much more efficient and we will be better off even without formal entry into the EU. Of course, when it comes to political matters, I want to say that Europe has found this formula that allows countries entering the EU to have their specifics and specific interests. We also want to join the EU with the retention of our personalities, specificities, cultural and other, so that in this context there will be no need for any conditioning or negative view on our part or on their part.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50750	Thank you. Mr. Mirovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50751	Of course I'm not happy with the answer. I was expecting some concrete answers. First, you're wrong, there are 500 million consumers on the market, not a billion. It's probably a lapus, never mind. Second of all, we're not going to get into your media traps at all, to talk about the past. We're talking about the future here, what's good for Serbia in economic terms. We are against the EU not only because of KIM, but because there is no bone-benefit analysis and there is no concrete argument, you have not brought it out now, that Serbia should enter the EU, so it will live better. You're talking about the sea of arguments, I'll only give you one. You know what non-tariff barriers are. Serbia is unable to compete with non-tariff barriers applied in the Western part of the EU. You have reduced and abolished customs duties, and on the other hand, the EU has left huge non-tariff barriers. That's why the external trade deficit is growing, and that's why the money is going from Serbia to Brussels and Western Europe. Of course, the EU is good, but it's good for Western Europe, not for Eastern Europe. It's a reality you can't deny by economic arguments. So it's about one economic truth, a simple calculation of whether we're going to live better or worse. On the other hand, we can talk about the future. What happens when the Lisbon Treaty is applied? Do you have a strategy that will answer that question? Do you have a strategy that will allow Serbia to have its vote in the European Commission when it is cut by one-third? You say we should apply the EU system in Serbia. What system? Where does parliament actually not ask itself anything? Where is the main legislative body of the European Council meeting at the minority informal meetings? Is that democracy? Is it democracy that parliament does not choose the European Central Bank, that the governor of the European Central Bank should be elected through the agreement between Shirak and the German Chancellor? If it's democracy, we don't want that democracy. Secondly, do you know what the EU essentially brings to Serbia? An increase in European bureaucracy. You gave another million euros to the EU Office of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand 100,000 euros cannot be found for 200 children with special needs. Your Institute of Health Insurance and Mr. Aleksandar Vuksanovic will neither receive parents nor give them that 100,000 euros, and on the other hand we have a million euros for the European bureaucracy in Serbia. That is the EU and that is the reality and what it brings to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50753	I listened with interest to what you said. I see you're full of energy, which is good. I would love it if you'd done a physibilities study that shows the economic negativity to join the EU, to share it with us and with other countries. I would just ask you to use one such study as inputs of exact figures, because I understand that you are living in the illusion that our external trade imbalance is growing. I have to tell you exactly the opposite, that our exports are actually growing much faster than imports and that last year we ended up with a historical record of coverage of our exports, that this year the growth of exports is still present, so it's just different figures than those you have. So I urge you to choose the right numbers, make that study and then give it a conversation. All that I have seen and had the opportunity to compare speaks for the fact that integration into the big market is much better than the disintegration of the small market, that protection is much better in every respect and, in this context, here, I will continue to advocate European integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50754	You have the right to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50755	Of course, we are for integration, too, but unlike you, we are for real integration, with our right allies in economic, political and any other sense. Your colleague, the Russian prime minister, is coming soon and you should see how exports to Russia can be increased through a single foreign trade agreement with the Russian Federation, which only Serbia has west of Karpat. As for the figures, so please, the foreign trade deficit in 2008, almost $12 billion, how did it come into being? Because over 50% of trade is done with the EU. That's the facts. And you're trying, I'm sorry, but to improvise and display crisis data in 2009 as some reality compared to 2010. Secondly, you're talking about our exports. Is our export "Sartid"? Is that our firm or American? Where do the revenues go from the Sartide? Who's the greatest Serbian exporter, Sartid? Please, so let's be realistic. So you have only one alternative, realistic, economic and each other, both political and Kosovo-related, which is to succeed in making real integration with the Russian Federation in economic terms. Finally, I would recommend that you consider some facts, some experiences that have some other countries that are in the EU from Eastern Europe. I will not mention Bulgaria, Romania, Greece or anyone. See what Mr. Vaclav Klaus, president of the Czech Republic, said when he was here – bowing and meeting EU conditions will not lead to a better life. And that's one truth that you can't deny, and you can't deny us any labels that we are for some emotional reasons against the EU. No, we have a cold-blooded budget and we are impartial, and we believe that the EU is bad for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50756	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50757	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that at this very moment the prime minister is leaving, because I intended to join, and who has indeed spent all day with us, and of course, with all due respect and other ministers who are in Parliament today, I think their example should be followed by other ministers and that it is time to give them criticism, to those who do not often come to Parliament, that this habit should change. A team before I intend to ask one question to the minister who, unfortunately, is not here today. Before I move on to that question, I would say that I agree with colleagues who have shown a very clear and principled view today, that the directors of public enterprises should be elected in public competitions, that it should not be a crucial party (of course, I mean not only the directors of public enterprises, but also all the other organisations and institutions), but a little principled position does not seem convincing to me. Because it is a party that does not participate in the republican government, which mainly criticises the republican authorities for it, and when it comes to local authorities, where the party is participating, things are still slightly different. Therefore – principledness, but consistency. Let me get to the point. He's referring to the Ministry of Culture. Since some of the most important cultural institutions have not been working for several years, my question is this – when will the National Library of Serbia start, at which stage is the new project for the reconstruction of the National Museum and are the funds provided for the completion of the work at the Museum of Contemporary Art? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50758	It is obvious that you will receive the answer in writing within seven days. The word has a folk ambassador, Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50759	I don't know how much I'd like to discuss with my colleague Mojovic right now whether we're principled or not. Well, it's a good thing that you of the DS realized that this principle is very important, and that's the most important thing for us, and then we can, after that, discuss whether we are. We think we're principled in practice. But you haven't listed any cultural institution that you're in charge of, that I'm arguing with you about where we showed that we put someone on the party line. From the cultural sphere, because it's your sphere, which you know best. I wanted to ask Mrs. Malovic a question. Here's why. Because I think after this much debate over public enterprises, and where we know, the finance minister has also accepted that out of the public procurement spent about four billion euros in Serbia, one billion euros goes to corruption in public procurement. This is what Mr. Obradovic knows, which is instructions and strikers, that there is money reportedly because such things as public procurement and public procurement go really huge. We believe that one of the main causes of corruption in public procurement is indeed in public enterprises. It would be very difficult to argue about this because the data that I have really shows that the biggest corruption comes from there. Mr. Prime Minister tried to show a very unprofessional knowledge when it comes to governance in state-owned enterprises, because he does not know that there is a OECD study of the corporate governance guidelines for state-owned enterprises. So he referred us to the competition, but I tell you as a doctor of sociology, when you acquire the power to manage huge assets and the entire public sector through political parties, in other words through political power (of course, that's why we're the last on all lists in competition), you're making it impossible to do so through that power of that competition. So he turned us around in a circle. I suggest he go out and take this study and study it. If he'd expanded his professional skills, he might have had a chance to see this study. I would now ask Mrs. Malovic a question, most seriously, as a lawyer – on what basis are these coalition agreements made, what is the legal basis of these coalition agreements, where all public goods are shared in health and culture and in all areas? We had the last case in Nis, when it came to the Clinical Centre, where two parties discussed who should be the director of that clinical center and then one party, G17 plus, called for a coalition agreement, that KC director in Nis must be Dr. Kamenov, while the workers of the centre together with the Management Board chose another man, Dr. Radovanovic, who is from the SPS. So, the people at the Clinical Centre chose this Radovanovic, who is also a party figure. Also the Management Board, and even representatives of the G17 Plus Management Board voted for Mr Radovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50760	Time. I'm glad to hear from you, but the weather...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50761	But what happened? Is this coalition agreement God's law, and yet Mr. Kamenov, based on the government's decision, is now some kind of official of duty? What is this coalition agreement? Is there a law on it or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50762	I'd like to answer that question, but no matter how hard I try, I can't, because I'm not a politician, I'm not a politician. The coalition agreement is simply, as the word itself says, an agreement between the parties. If there is a breach of that agreement, you can certainly not go to court, nor can you seek the fulfillment of the agreement, but if there is a breach, there is a knowledge of what is happening – there will be a break-up of the coalition, the fall of the bodies that make up, etc. It's just that as a lawyer, I can't answer you, because it's not a legal document, it's an agreement between certain partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50763	Mrs. Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50764	Do you think, Mrs Malovic, that is still a violation of some right? Because the government is obliged to uphold rights, first of all, and not some kind of agreement they make, it's some private party stuff. That's why we call this a party state, because the government, meaning someone who has to stick to regulation above all, adheres to some kind of agreement as if God invented such a coalition agreement. That's why we're opposed to that state. Since there's Mr. Dulic, and you can't answer me, because apparently there's no legal basis for it and there's no reason for the government to make a decision for Dr. Kamenov to be there... And according to the coalition agreement... And the government did it... Watch out, Vlad. Not at all. So that's it, signed and now let's do it. Clearly, it does not adhere to any law, but to some private agreements, which mean nothing to us citizens but simple damage. Since Mr. Dulic is there, and I read in the newspaper the other day that he is the president of the Staff Committee of the Government (I don't know on what basis he is elected here – as minister, doctor of orthopedics, I don't know, but I heard that he is), he might be able to explain to me what these coalition agreements are that under the coalition agreement this Radovanovic must be thrown out and that Kamenov is being put in. Or is it the government, on these staff committees... What's this staff committee for? Perhaps this cardinal issue is being resolved, which is why you have really made a mess in this country and why Serbia can't take one step forward, because no law can work as long as these agreements, for which the justice minister can't explain where they come from, to be stronger than any law or any law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50765	Does anyone want to give an answer? Yeah. Here you are, Minister Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50766	Thank you. I think you know the answer to that question because you were the party president who must have signed a large number of coalition agreements. You're probably in some of these coalition agreements and you've been elected as a state function, such as being an ambassador. We don't want to say that every human solution we make is the best. There's probably always some sort of personnel solution where a mistake is made, and then we try to make those personnel solutions right. But one of the basic elements of democracy as we know it here in Serbia, which is not impeccable and brilliant, is that, among other things, when we talk about some of the positions in the state, they belong to certain political groups that have received some votes in the elections, and those votes, translated into the votes of MPs, have in some way materialised through functions and positions in the government. I don't think the Director of the Clinical Center in Nis should be a couple of excellant political persons. I think he, above all, needs to meet certain conditions and I must say that both Dr. Kamenov and Dr. Radovanovic met these conditions and that it was only important to assess whether the competition was conducted in accordance with the law. He has been implemented in accordance with the law when it comes to the election of Dr Radovanovic for a proposal for director of the Clinical Centre, but the Ministry of Health has sent a proposal to appoint a permanent director. The solution. Be assured that all of this will be done properly and I am sure that in the end we will have the final selection of directors very soon and I am sure that both of them meet all the conditions defined by the competition, which is, above all, to be regular professors of the university and to have sufficient expertise and personal dignity that this job can work. As for the election of directors of the other companies you have discussed, I can agree with you that they do not always have to be individuals who are exclusively proposed by political parties and that the only condition for these people to be party members. I think where people are chosen primarily because of the profession, they get better results than where there's only a party frame. But on the other hand, I'm against being rejected as unacceptable people who are both professional and moral enough to perform certain functions, and members are parties. I don't think that's the way to look at it. I'm sure that if we were to do an analysis and look at where people from local to state level are all being placed, most of these people on a proposal from certain political parties, and I'm sure that your political option, when it proposes people where they belong, proposes people who meet all the criteria, but who are still party members or are close to party members. So that's a very important question and it opens up in our society, but I'm not sure that at this point we can have such a debate. I'd like to live one day in a country where not all positions will be divided solely according to that principle, but I'm not sure we're close to that time, because of the political culture that is now in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50767	Here you go, Mrs. Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50768	I just wanted to say that that principle of competition, because it can happen if the coalition agreement is so strong that it can't be some other person, but it has to be that one, so we have two candidates and we can't choose a better one, but it has to be that one, under the coalition agreement. I asked very precisely, Mr. Dulic. And I'm not going to question you personally now, because it's not my goal, and I could do that, and you tried to question me. I've never signed any coalition agreements with anyone, that's not true. But you see, the problem here is that it's just mentioned that when it comes to public enterprises – so it wouldn't be competition between companies, because otherwise you have in companies competition, so let them win stronger, it doesn't matter what they put on the partner line, they're going to lose on the market. You see, when I set an example of your profession, in health care, do you have the right to take away the health care thing, because if I'm going to choose a worse candidate in competition, I'm going to go to the private sector in case I pay for that favor you already charged me. Sir, that's not right. Just like a doctor... Now I've cited an example from your profession, which is why I've set it up, because even this false principle of competition isn't valid, but you've driven me to private doctors, as you're making us to private doctors, because because of what I've cited as an example and not health care, and it's already been discussed here. Therefore, I would ask you once to cast out that principle and to introduce public competitions, and to make it completely transparent, for all directors of all clinical centres. Is it possible that when one party has one particular ministry, as has now been with the Ministry of Health, all centres, from Belgrade to southern Serbia, belong to the same party. It's a closed circle of corruption, Mr. Dulic, if you didn't know, and you were there, not to mention, suspicious of these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50769	Time. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50770	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I am very sorry that there is no Prime Minister in this room, but then I will refer my question to Mr. Trade Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic and I hope he will be able to answer me. In advance, I apologize to Serbian citizens for perhaps turning a local story into an example based on which they can draw a very large number of conclusions. They say that the crisis of this government, and hopefully the recent decline, began with the public conflict of Minister of Economy and Regional Development Dinkic and Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance Slobodan Ilic over the fact that the appointed Minister Dinkic factory "Gorenje" is the money of all Serbian citizens from Valjev, where an agreement was reached in 2004 to build it, headed to Zajecar, in which the mayor, in turn, is one of the perjanicas, etc. United regions of Serbia. Naturally, the riots were always coming from Valjev, although this pumpkin in this case sat calmly in the government while the government made a decision regarding his work. Now something about making those decisions. There's something not quite clear about it, at least me and the DSS. I will call for an interview by Foreign Investment Agency Assistant Director and Export Promotion Vladimir Tomic, who says that in this case it has been handled completely illegally. Some of the ruling coalition have spoken on the verge of legality, but Mr. Tomic and everyone else claim that it is totally illegal. What did this illegality look at? In the fact that there was no respect for the law of the prescribed procedure. What's the legal procedure that's been violated in? He says there was no public call for projects, so it further means that the commission that was required to identify itself for projects that should be financed as well as for the levels of financial support did not have a chance to plead. Namely, the commission is exactly the place that should have been the place to make decisions. My question now for Mr Milosavljevic is to tell us, because he is sitting in the government and he knows for sure to answer these questions – who is making the decisions that are being made in this government? Where are those decisions made? Are the institutions and bodies formed by the government to prevent corruption and the will of individuals or elsewhere? Who makes the decisions in case the government doesn't? Do decisions proving to be against the law, i.e. that they are completely illegal, not binding on anyone or respecting them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50771	Here you go, Minister Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50772	Dear Mrs. Vojić Markovic, don't have any dilemma. Decisions taken by the government are taken at government meetings, with the Prime Minister's presidency, always with most members, ministers, and most often, in the previous almost three years, unanimously or very rarely with some vote against. The question is clear, the answer is clear – decisions are made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the ministry from which certain points and certain issues are discussed and decided by them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50773	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50774	Thank you, Madam President. Please, then, since you've given this answer, comment on the following facts. I again call for Mr. Tomic's interview, assistant director of the Foreign Investment Agency and promotion of exports. The man claims that it is still a public call, until March 4th, that Gorenje did not even compete with the project at all and, on the other hand, that the commission could not make a decision on which projects would pass and how much financial resources would be aid. But what you like to say is the reality is that Burning still got approval for the project in Zajecar. It also received 10,000 euros in aid for each employee. I have to ask you -- how could that go, if it wasn't the body that was supposed to make the decision, and it went to the government? Simply, do you think "Gorenje" is naive, without any proper promise, has entered this business to build a factory in Zajecar, if no project (in fact, no people have even competed) has passed?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50775	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50776	I can only repeat what I said. As for the specific case of the Gorenje factory and the decision to encourage some 10,000 euros to invest in Zajecar, the decision was made on a proposal from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The resolution ministry has proposed, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision. As I said earlier, decisions are made at meetings of the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50777	A comment. Here you go, Mrs. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50778	Thank you, Madam President. So we both concluded that you and I and Mr Tomic – the decision was made by the Ministry of Economy, Minister Dinkic, although his decision could not be adopted because he was not the body that made the decision. Again, I apologize to the citizens of Serbia, this is actually a fantastic example of how Serbian citizens understand how these ministers work and how decisions are made in this government. I can only offer the citizens of Serbia three alternatives, such as a small quiz, to guess which letter hides the correct answer: a) "Gorenje" entered Serbia because it wants to help even regional development; b) Minister Dinkic, past the power and by the legal procedure, decided that the project is also adopted on the amount of subsidies, i.e. 10,000 euros for each employee in Serbia's pockets was directed there; v) this has never happened. So it happened. This is a fantastic example for Serbian citizens to understand that decisions are being taken illegally, and for me it is a surprise that Minister Dinkic was not removed because he was working illegally, but because he opposed, for God's sake, authority. I didn't notice that authority, and neither did the citizens of Serbia, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50779	National MP Nenad Prokic has a word. NENAD PROKIĆ: Dear ministers and dear colleagues, as a representative of the party that is participating with you in the city government, I am sure you know that out of the 70 people we have proposed for the directors of the public enterprise, 69 are not members of our party, let alone officials. That must be familiar to you. I'll get to the bottom of this, but I had to say this. This question is for Mr. Minister who left first, and I suppose Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic can answer. I wonder if there is a strategy for the long-term development of Belgrade airport and is it public? Is it made? If it's made, is it known to the government? If she's known to the government, can she be known to the citizens? More important question – is it known that someone is currently buying actions from Belgrade airport? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50781	I think it's been a lot of times in public so far, and we've even made it public, adoption of so-called. A master traffic plan in Serbia in general. Of course, there's a Belgrade airport, with everything you're asking now. So there's a development strategy. Even that strategy goes until 2027. The whole project was funded by the EU. So everything is in line with European laws. Now I can't say the details of that strategy, but the airport is already acting and working on it. That's what I know. About the other part of the question... I'm sorry, what else did you ask? (Nenad Prokic: Does anyone buy shares at this time? No, I don't know, and I don't think he's buying.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50782	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Prokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50783	Thank you. Since it is not unknown that the profit rate of the airport exceeds the profit rates of mobile operators, it is not at all a question that can be irrelevant at any time for the public, government, MPs and all in this country, I suppose it would be good to have a public debate about it, not to be like with license plates for cars, to always have a debate after it's over. It's very important to know at this point whether someone buys shares or doesn't buy. Since the Budapest Airport runs an Indian-American consortium with huge profits, then it would be good if we knew something in advance, whether this strategy counts on something that this government can make like some decisions at the moment or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50784	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50785	I'm going to give you the right answer to what you just said tonight. I'll call Director Velja Radosavljevic. That's one responsible man and I'll tell you that. As for this second, or first question, last Friday, I was in Montenegro talking to Minister Lompar, Montenegro's Transport Minister, about this particular issue. At the same time, two planes headed from Tivt to Belgrade, one "Montenegre" and one "Yat". The Montenegro was full, the Yat was half empty. The second thing, the price of tickets at Montenegra was slightly lower, I think the return card was 150 or 160 euros, and ours was slightly higher. Half the cost of costing tickets carry fees for airports. The same is true in both Tivt and Podgorica and Belgrade. So we agreed, and we're going to do it very quickly, and we're going to do it again. Of course, we know that airports are monopolies, and that's true. I have one more thing to say, which is very important. So far, in the three years I've been in the Ministry of Infrastructure, the airport has regularly reported its incomes, or profits, as they call it, to the budget and there have been no problems. But anyway, airport fees are big today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50786	Thank you. You have the right to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50787	Thank you for your response. I think that our co-operation in the city has been done to the satisfaction of the citizens of Belgrade, it has never looked better than it is now, and that this kind of principle will overcome that kind of principle that shows up when a government minister blackmails the government and challenges the crisis we just had last week.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50788	Thank you. I apologize to MP Dobrislav Prelyc. I made an oversight and first I gave my word to Mr. Prokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really sorry that Minister Dragina is not here today, but I think Mr. Cvetkovic might be able to answer some questions, too. On behalf of the SRS, I want to ask a few questions about our agriculture, and I am convinced that, if he is in the mood, he will be able to answer and Mr Milosavljevic, since he has ministered in one period at the Ministry of Agriculture, and the problems I want to bring out to the wolf even from the time before your ministry. First, are you aware that according to the latest research, yours, according to the EU methodology, the consumer basket in Serbia is about 52,000 dinars? How many of our citizens are able to afford only a third of that consumer basket? And not to say that a large number of citizens can only dream of it. The problems in our agrarian have been incontinent for ten years. We warned in time, remember everyone here in the National Assembly, what would happen. However, we did not come to an understanding. More dangerously, this government had no understanding for the Ministry of Agriculture when the 2011 budget was being created. I know you're going to say that the agricultural budget has increased by two, two and a half billion dinars, but that's, believe me, very little and not enough. Only when we compare the prices of repromaterials, oil prices, means full investment in primary agricultural production, and when the finished product comes, that's where the problems are created. It's being redeemed at great prices, and above all because of the fact that there's a monopoly in our agrarian and that five people literally control everything. You know that this is the case, and in addition to this fact it goes and that, let's say, the wheat was bought for 13 dinars, and that today it's 30 dinars, that soybeans were bought for 27 dinars, and that today 38 and 40 and 42 dinars, and that byproducts are twice as expensive as the finished agricultural product. A special story is with our livestock. In the last 20 years, the stock fund in Serbia has been halved. Something moved when it came to subsidies and investment in our agriculture, but believe me, it's too late. It takes at least two or three years to get to a decent, satisfying level. But what's problematic is that at this point the government has not come out with any concrete proposal, when it comes to our agrarian.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50790	Here you go, Mr. Milosavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50791	Thank you. I'd be happy to comment on your questions. Of course, responsibility and the right answer should be given by the Minister of Agriculture, but it is undeniable that agriculture is an extremely important sector of Serbia's economy and that the minority of every member of the government should be interested in and helped to make as much use of the resources Serbia has in the area of agriculture as possible. I agree that there are a lot of problems, and I agree that the agrarian budget is too small and it would have to be bigger, but I can't accept it when you say that some of the measures that have been taken, and these are measures for higher incentives in livestock, are unnecessary because... You know that old Chinese proverb that even the longest time starts with the first step, so here, the first step, however small he was, was made – increased to 25,000 dinars for a milk cow, an incentive for a liter of milk was increased. I am sure that in the years ahead of us agriculture will play an increasingly significant role, for the simple reason that the price of food is irretrievably raised. She'll probably be oscillating in some years, but she's certainly not coming back to those levels a few years ago. I see it as a developmental opportunity for Serbia. With more than five and a half million hectares of farmland, Serbia can produce much more food, a much higher degree of finalisation, and I agree that this can be achieved through livestock farming and can be achieved, and that the value of the agricultural product and the value of imports can be multiplely higher than it is today. The fact is, when oil prices rise, metal prices, countries rich in these products expiate. I am convinced that Serbia will benefit much more from the rise in food prices in the years ahead. It's got to be a change in agrarnapolitics, there's got to be an increase in incentives, but when we know we have something to invest in, I'm sure there's going to be a way and funding to increase these incentives. In this regard, it is extremely important that we get candidate status as soon as possible, I believe that this will happen by the end of the year, and that we come to the opportunity for significant European funds for development and agriculture and ecology, but especially for agriculture, to the greater extent we use and thus help domestic farmers, to gain greater value for their work, and thus for agriculture and the economy and for the overall standard of living in Serbia. It is true that the value of the consumer basket now, according to Eurostat's methodology of the EU, is about 52,000 dinars, it is true that a significant number of households in Serbia cannot or are difficult to cover this amount of basket, but it is also true that in the previous year there has been an explosion in the world of food prices, that the price of wheat, for example, has been increased almost three times in a year, the market price in Budapest is currently around 30 Eurocents per kilogram and, recognising agriculture as a development opportunity for Serbia and in a strategy that has recently been promoted, agriculture is marked as one of the sectors where Serbia has a perspective. I'm sure that in the years that come, a part of these potentials will be used much more than now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50792	Thank you. The word is Mr. Toolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50793	Believe me, Mr. Minister, I expected an answer like this. But let me just draw your attention to one thing. It is true that now, this year, we hope that you will respect that every cow our farmer gets 25,000 dinars and every heifer produced. There's another problem here. What makes the agricultural budget the way it is and what is the situation of the Agricultural Payments Agency? Because it's a small budget and everything they give to the Ministry of Agriculture at this point, we get into a situation that they can't meet all the requirements. Then some other things apply. Our farmer has to get dressed not only to work on his computer, but it's a disaster that he needs from documentation to hand over to the Ministry. And we get into a situation, if one document doesn't have a stapler, why doesn't it have a stapler and that's how our farmer refuses. So, first of all, the agricultural budget had to be bigger. And when you come into a crisis, you should certainly try to get away with it, but the problem is that in time we warned you about everything being prepared, that Imlek was holding a monopoly, that there was no need for milk to be powdered. At that moment, our producer, the people who deal with livestock, was directly at risk. You didn't trust us with Imlek, but it turns out we were right. You even filed criminal charges against him. They held the monopoly, and it is not true that the price of milk was 27 dinars in one period when it was in some way satisfactory. That was the price of milk for extra class only. That couldn't fill 5% of our agricultural producers. Let me just give you one example. This Imlek, behind whom you know very well who stands, is a monopoliest. When he bought a beer shop, you know how much she worked? Three days. All three days. After that, he bought a steak milkmaker. We cut the production, then 20%, then 10%, and finally, now that it's closed, their manager came there, as popularly said, and simply, honestly and correctly told people – well, we didn't buy you to develop you. And we warned that people were mass-selling heifers, which is from the god of sin, to the slaughterhouse, because we got data from our processors that they couldn't believe, when they slaughtered a cow, that it was a rock. You didn't react to that. Last year, 80,000 of our cows were slaughtered and 30,000 were exported. I'm sure there's a need for intervention imports, and I'm sure at this point our government can't import 50,000 gallons of heifers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50794	Time. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50795	Thank you. Since you've really asked a lot of questions, I'll pass them on to my colleague Dragin, so I believe he'll give you a written quality answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50796	You have no right to comment because there was no answer. I can't give you my word. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50797	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, my question should be addressed to the Ministry of Health, but since there is no Registrar, and it is about breaking the law, perhaps Mrs Malovic could answer this question. Thus, at the end of 2010, the National Assembly adopted an amendment to the Law on the chambers of health workers, trying to prevent the blockade and the negativity of a healthcare workers chamber. By amending the law, the Serbian Medical Society is scheduled to delegate, i.e. present, members of the board to appoint a new assembly of the Stomatology Chamber. The health ministry, then-resoring minister Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic addressed the Serbian medical society on 11 January 2011. The Serbian doctoral society received the letter from the health ministry and responded with its proposed candidates, those 11 people who should be a committee to convene and maintain a new congregation of the Stomatology Chamber. The health ministry on 31.01.2011 provides a solution to the appointment of 11 members of the board, but thus the two members are no longer on the list of 11 members, according to the Serbian Doctors' Society's proposal. To remind Serbian citizens, the two members are representatives, delegated members from the Doctors' Association and dentist AP Vojvodina's branch. So here's how you take care of the AP Vojvodina. The legal body's proposal, meaning the branch of the Serbian Medical Society from Vojvodina, proposes its members, the health ministry removes them without justification, violating the amendment and supplementation of the Law, exactly Article 27b. My question is, who is this in the Ministry of Health who can break the law that this assembly has passed and voted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-24-0.u50798	You'll get the answer in writing. Since it is 19.00 hours, we are finishing today's session in which MPs are asking parliamentary questions to members of the government. I thank our ministers. I thank you, too, dear colleagues and colleagues.
