ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53425	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 70 MPs. To determine the number of Members present in the room, please place cards in the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there are conditions for work in the House of 86 MPs. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Zoran Nikolic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vukkovic, Branka Ljiljak, Marko Djurisic, Oedip of the Sheriffs, Konstantin Samofalov and Sinisa Stamenkovic. I would also like to ask the members of the Committee on European Integration to move to Hall 3 for a session of the Committee. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that, on the occasion of the first item of the agenda, I have also called on Mr Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, to attend Mr Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE LAW ABOUT ADVOKATURE (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the draft of the law by the MPs: together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Pošurić, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čaljan Čalić and Dragan Šormaz, together Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovač and Arpad Fremond, Maja Laušević, Vuk Dinčić, Vuk Dinčić, Bila Husa Kora Kora Koračić, Dragović, Petažanović, Mirović and Žalna Mirović, Mirović together Mirović, Mirović, Mirović and Mirović, together with Mr Mirnović, together with Mr Mirnović and Mr Mir Ivan Mir Mir Ivan Mirović, Mirović, Mirović. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, tabled an amendment to Article 1. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and joint MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment are joint undermining MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Bojan Đurić. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment, on behalf of the SRS, on behalf of the provisions of Article 2(2). The draft law, because I believe this should be brought into line with Article 67(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it is in Article 67. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions that law, first of all, is a service, not an act of action. So that's what needs to be considered, so in that direction it is necessary to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53427	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Let me let you know that they're on Article 2. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that these amendments have become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53428	Article 3 The bill regulates what is the subject of law and, in practice, lists all the jobs that lawyers do. What we propose by amendment is the point 4) already in Article 3, which is the representation and defence of natural and legal persons. However, the practice has shown that our procedural laws that define and represent, represent and provide defence in many elements are not defined. It happens that in the best interest of the citizen, he chooses a lawyer without having any guarantee of his qualifications, expertise and even training for the job. The idea we wanted to promote this amendment is to avoid the situation of a legal intern acting before the Supreme Court of Cassation or the Court of Appeal. Of course, this concept of the law does not accept it, for the simple reason that there is no division of lawyers here, as it exists in the Anglo-Saxon legal system, on ballistics and others. However, it must be taken seriously to make sure that a qualified lawyer, with appropriate work experience and appropriate references, can create a presumption of successful representation and representation before those senior courts, because we now have a situation in which the police at the local police recommend a defence attorney under official duty. They come from two or three law offices, so the head of the law firm is busy with state affairs, so his lawyers don't have to know much, not even the interns, but the head of the firm has great political power and then the job ends. You will not adopt this, but consider putting such standards into procedural laws where the state is legally guaranteeing certain things, and how well it will be for the bar, if it wants to be a professional organisation and if it wants to initiate disciplinary proceedings against certain lawyers who have obviously broken the code and the law in various ways, and co-operated with the opposing party, and then cooperated with the police, and co-operated with those, so with these and ruined the client to a judicial verdict and the man neither guilty nor liable to be held by the head, does not know what happened to him. It's formally all gone through the highest institution of justice in this country, but come on, what a man, rather than a whole street, the whole place knows it's a great injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53429	National MP Dobrislav Prelic according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, here, Mr Krasic has tried to explain to you why this amendment should be accepted, so that similar things do not happen in practice. I would now like to inform you on a plastic case in some way and present to you what is going on in practice and try to convince you to accept this amendment. What do I want to say? It's between law enforcement and the judiciary. Let me give you an example of privatization from the community I come from. It's about the company "Progress" Ratkovo. It was, Madam Minister, the third buttonmaker in Europe. It was sold for the first time, resold for the second time, and sold for the third time. The worst part is, the workers stayed on the street. Imagine when they came into this situation that the court, based on the tax administration and their estimates, would sell the facility to settle its obligations. I don't believe there are such privatisations in Serbia. The initial price was 52 million. Normally, it was eventually sold for 32 million dinars. The lawyer literally gave the workers money in cash. How? That's all he knows, to you so much, so much for you and so much for the end, and now that it's all sold out, that firm has bought Utriko from Vranj and believe me, 12 sheep in the circle of that factory are now located.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53431	National MP Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53432	Ms. Malovic, as justice minister, you would have to pay attention to what SRS MP Zoran Krasic explained. He gave you a convincing explanation, because if it were logical, it would mean that according to your proposal, one who had only passed a judicial exam could go to the court of Cassation. So, age ratio, please pay attention to that. This amendment is necessary for you to adopt it, because before a cassation court and an appeal court and before senior courts they must represent proportionate years, professional preparation, a judicial trial and, above all, judicial practice. It is necessary that you also install lawyers across Serbia and Serbia's Bar of Lawyers insist on this, because people have estimated that this was some kind of failure, so I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53433	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, tabled an amendment to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Lausevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. So it is an amendment that has become an integral part of the bill's proposal, but within the time of the parliamentary group, Mr Krasic wants to take part in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53434	You're the only one chasing towards Europe. You don't have to look at it. We checked in on time. I don't want to waste your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53435	Mr. Krasic, I'm not going to Europe without you. And you will come with us. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Rangelovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53436	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few questions I would like to get an answer from the government's representative. Namely, we have made summary remarks on Article 6. Otherwise, Article 6 concerns the conditions for enrolment in the register of lawyers. I can say that, through the amendments of other fellow Members and fellow Members, part of our amendment has been accepted, and as regards the point 10 which is deleted and which determines the duration of at least two years since the termination of the judicial or public office in the authority of the administration, if the candidate has been in such a position. That's just fine. This is also in line with some of the consultations we had before the plenary debate on this law began. Our amendment to item 1 has also been accepted through individual amendments from other colleagues and colleagues, but I express my surprise that the amendment to this article has not been accepted as a whole. We insisted that, instead of a three-year course, a period of at least six months has been adopted since the final decision to reject the application for entry into the lawyer's register, any of the lawyer's chambers within the Serbian Bar, if the candidate had previously submitted a request that was rejected. The explanation is more than clear. The amendment proposes that the deadline for re-application should be reduced to six months instead of being three years, as stated in point 11 of this article, because from the submission of the application to the final decision on refusal of registration and then the expiry of the deadline - and we know how the deadlines are respected, what kind of access is to be made - in which a new application for registration cannot be submitted, it could take several years, and thus, contrary to a disproportionate measure, would restrict the right to work and freedom of work. We didn't get an adequate explanation of why it was like that. In the end, our proposal was that judges and prosecutors who performed a judicial or prosecutorial post should not be allowed to pass a lawyer's exam. It was found, I wouldn't say Solomonian, the Solomonian solutions are wise, some middle solution, where it is said that those who have performed for 12 years. I wonder where logic was found for such a deadline. Can't anyone explain to me, if someone's been a judge for 11 years, that they don't know the code and the rules of law, and that someone who's been a judge for 12 years can claim that? I'm interested in where such a deadline comes from, and I'm interested in what logic did the legislator of the law, or the government that adopted such an amendment, lead to this very deadline being determined? I don't believe that anyone who's served as a judge for three years knows less than the code of attorney and the necessary rules regarding law enforcement compared to the one who's been doing it for 12 years. I simply did not understand why the government rejected this part of our amendment, or did not accept such a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53437	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53438	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have no knowledge, I have not been able to get to know what is wrong with Article 4 paragraph 1 point 11? You're bringing in foreign citizens here so they can practice law enforcement without domestic lawyers being servants to them. This is not appropriate and should not be suffocating and destroying a Serbian lawyer who has a long tradition. In the laws of neighbouring countries, and even in the Law on Lawyerry of the 30th year of King Alexander, it was prescribed that foreign lawyers in our country could only be dealt with on the basis of reciprocity and reciprocity. Please delete these foreigners because it's not a constitutional category. The Constitution in Article 67 does not say that foreign lawyers can deal with law enforcement, they can, on the basis of an international contract if it comes to reciprocity. Our lawyers in no country, no environment, former SFRY, and no other states, therefore continental and Anglo-Saxon rights, have these rights. Why do you give foreigners this much rights and authority to choke the law in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53439	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Dincic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53440	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 6, and I have intervened in several things that this article 6 covers. The first thing regarding the amendment is the bar exam. Personally, I don't think a lawyer's exam should stand as defined in the law. For example, today when he graduates from law school, he has to do practice in a court of law for two years, pass a judicial exam, a lawyer's exam, in order to be a lawyer after that. Personally, I believe that it may be necessary to approach the amendment of the law on the passing of a judicial examination, that it is changed in some elements, that we put in place some provisions that are important and some of the facts that are important for laying down, for those professional titles that should be obtained by future lawyers, rather than introducing some new legal exam, where even in the law it is not clearly defined what this legal exam will include. It covers that general norm where there is talk of knowledge of international regulations etc, when it comes to lawyers. The other thing that my amendment refers to is the concept of dignity, when it comes to the conditions for enrollment in the lawyer's register. I personally advocate that the law should stand exactly certain legal conditions that one should meet in order to be a lawyer. The notion of dignity can be misused in many ways. That's what happened, at least that's what it said in the media when the judges were elected, there were cases like that. The one who has influence in the bar, who runs the evaluation committee whether someone is worthy or unworthy to be a lawyer, has the power they can, I'm only talking about those who can abuse it, I believe in the good intentions of everyone, but those who can abuse it, say, because of some personal animosity towards someone, that someone can't be a lawyer, say, because they've celebrated certain things in a bar. I think it's a bad message. I think we should prescribe exactly what someone needs to meet to be a lawyer. The amendment also applies to what concerns people from the judiciary, that it should take at least two years from the end of the judicial or public office of the administration's authority, if it was in such a position. I don't think there's a conflict of interest here, that a two-year term, in my opinion, is a short term. To last those two years, whoever was in the judiciary will be able to be a lawyer again. If we talk about the contacts that he may have kept in the judiciary, he'll keep them and then I don't see anything changing in principle. Either we forbid people who are in the judiciary to be lawyers or they should be allowed. I'm in favour of the fact that it's necessary to prescribe the conditions that someone needs to meet in order to be a lawyer. That's what my amendment refers to. I think the topic about law school is very controversial. They're not clearly defined terms when it comes to law school, whether it's going to be paid and how long it lasts, what are the conditions. It's all left to an open assessment of the bar and in some ways we see that it's clear why people in the bar are fighting for power. The bar will have a significant impact on any decision making when it comes to people's reception and enrolment in the lawyer's register. I want to say one more thing, as a citizen of this country, is not a subject and is not a part of the agenda, but I've been thinking about it for a while, it's about the topic, the settlement of Svetlana Raznatovic with the prosecution, which happened the other day. That decision really shocked me. I'm bitter about that decision and I believe all my colleagues here. We don't need to set an example for anyone, no great criminal, to be able to settle in any way with the state, to pay a price of 1.500,000 euros, if she, I say, admitted herself that she stole about 5 million euros, to pay any of us here respects. That's the decision I'm condemning. I believe the court will have a hearing about this and will not accept the prosecution's decision. Maybe someone here will say that in this way I want to influence the court, I just want to express my indignation over such a decision by the prosecution, and I believe that the court will not accept it, because we cannot set an example that no great criminal, who has damaged this country or anyone, can negotiate with anyone and declare it a victory.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53441	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53442	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, the great controversy among the lawyers has sparked a provision under which, after all the conditions have been met, a legal examination should also be passed. I think this provision for Members of the SPO is acceptable, since it is nevertheless about the knowledge of domestic and international rules relating to the law of law and the code of professional ethics of lawyers. It is true that the Law does not state what all this includes, but it is certain that the bar will regulate it by its acts, because it is very simple to carry out the list and records of domestic and international regulations relating to law enforcement, and as far as the Code of Law is concerned, we are all witnesses of today's state of affairs in which most of the attorneys seem to still hold the code of ethics, but in any case, it is a large part of the lawyer who in the most harsh way violates the code of ethics. That's what my colleague Prelic from the SRS mentioned today. My colleague Dincic had a very high-quality discussion, and most of all, I agree with all his estimates, but the fact is that, especially after the 1990s, we have a major inflow in law enforcement. People who worked primarily in the MUP in more important positions, who had a very good knowledge of the opportunities primarily in the Serbian underworld, who had what was official, making private strong contacts with various criminal organisations. They, unfortunately, used it all to deal with something that seems to be out of line with the Code of Law. Today we are witnesses, if you carry out an analysis of the defence by official duty, that the largest number of lawyers who receive defence by official duty, namely, former M.O.P. inspectors, which puts those lawyers who have been doing the job for years and who have no ties in the police and the judiciary, in the manner that the M.P. inspectors could have. I'm saying, it'd be okay if this was one move towards the rule of law and if those people kept up with the code of ethics. But most of the time, they do break it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53443	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53444	It is good that representatives from senior parliamentary groups point to some illogicalness and something that has never happened to us before. It's really an astonishment that a special bar exam is being introduced, such as a sort of astonishment when you introduced that judicial academy. The judicial exam is the highlight. When a man lays it down, he's trained to work in the prosecution, in a court of law. It's proof that he has mastered some matter professionally. On the side of the fact that there are selected offices representing certain people, so they want to make their own monopolization of the bar, that's their goal, but we're running away from it. Why? The minimum conditions should be prescribed for law enforcement. But really minimal conditions. Conditions that provide expertise and conditions that ensure that there is some professional experience that a person can engage in a job that touches the souls of a man. The bar needs to be cleared. Why? To lead only that register and to lead the order in terms of the code and discipline of lawyers, and nothing more than that. If you leave it to them, it'll be a disaster. It's a kind of monopolization. This is an introduction to the monopolization of law enforcement. Please explain these criteria you specified. What does that mean? A judge who didn't make the election or a judge who didn't want to deal with it anymore would have to be at the Bureau for two and a half years, because he can't be a lawyer, and he's trained to be a lawyer. Who gave you the right to deprive a man of his right to work? Let's not talk about worse situations, throw a man out or make him unworthy. Look at the wonders. By yesterday, his convictions were worthy. Then you don't even allow him to deal with this kind of activity, self-employedness, etc. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I will not have the EU and NATO pact with you. Be sure of that. I will not because of KIM, nor because of the Raska area, nor the Vojvodina, nor because of the evil that NATO has made for the Republic of Serbia. The fact that you prefer Brussels, that's your problem. Don't put me in those things. Travel freely with yours, there is no problem, but do not touch us who consider Serbia as our country. To catch a connection with this, since you love Europe so much, let's solve the problem of Agro-Bucke by European standards. I'll give you complete documentation. Small shareholders know, in the future, speak to Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, let her finish with this Ferenca this 102km and how many thousand hectares of the country, since it is European. So, the European's pulling out. I'd ask you to go to the Hunter to talk to those people over there and talk to them about what happened to their big agricultural good. Tell them that they are now not receiving wages according to European standards. And every time you tell me you're taking me to Europe, I'll give you some examples of who to take. Bring these people into Europe. I brought a lot of paperwork today, because I knew someone would show up very smart, so let me tell him about "Pick Vienna" and so on, all in a row. For each of these examples, you nice Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, since you like to travel, you visited Zabela, I'm surprised you didn't stay, but go to Bačka Topol, stop by there, call these people again and explain to them that by European standards you solve all this and that you are guaranteed their trip to Europe, with kim. Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, that is what the Constitution obliges you to do, you have forgotten it, but I have not forgotten it. I'm looking after my party president. I'm helping him. You forgot yours. You've forgotten a lot of things. You forgot what happened to you in 2001, from these of yours here. Now – Europe, Europe and you think it's all an alpha state of the brain in Serbia. No, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, the alpha state of the brain. It's not all as nice as on TV in direct transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53445	Mr. Krasic, I don't know if you've been studying high school and when, but I'll remind you of the "castis omnia honor sant," the clean is all clear. I understand your thoughts on Zabela. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 6th amendment. First, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53446	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Mrs Malovic, we have well begun today's debate, and as we will conclude it, we will only see it. We started it well because we persuaded you to return to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to be an independent and independent service, not an action, as you suggested. This time I thank you for accepting the DSS amendment. In Article 6, where the conditions for enrolment are laid down in the register of lawyers, you have indeed foreseen, which is your ministry's proposal, to introduce this restriction of at least two years from the termination of a judicial function or other public functions. It is good that this point has been deleted and this amendment has been accepted, so that this restriction will not be implemented through the law. We gave a clear argument and asked – how does this affect hundreds of people who have not been through judicial reform, or re-election of hundreds of judges and hundreds of prosecutors? It's a good thing that you, after your term of office, will have the opportunity to practice law because that restriction has been lifted. We support colleagues from different parliamentary groups, both the opposition and the ruling coalition, in connection with the abolition of the legal exam. We'll make that clear in the voting day. We invite you today to take another look at this amendment we have submitted. That's what we suggested to remove points 7, 9 and 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53447	National MP Milica Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53448	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. Because of the way this session was organised, because the discussions on four laws are very important, in fact joined in one debate, I had no opportunity at all in the principle debate even to refer to the draft law on law. I don't know if it makes any sense to talk about how much such a way of working is effectively disrupting the quality of the debate in this house and how much we, primarily representatives of the opposition, are prevented from fully discussing all the legal proposals that are on the agenda. When it comes to law enforcement, I have to say that it is an extremely bad legal proposal, which is primarily the result of the wrong concept of independence and independence of law enforcement. For the first time, it is seen here that the state wants to exercise complete control over the internal functioning of the lawyer, as it has never been envisaged before. The lawyer's been going through a lot of difficult times before than he is today. So much influence and so much need of the state to control everything that's going on in law enforcement has not been recorded as it is today. Even in the absoluteist regimes, the lawyer was free, that is, independent and independent, in which regulations and codes relating to the lawyers themselves were passed within the framework of the esnaf. Now we have a situation that the state, by law, wants to have an absolute impact on which authorities will be represented in the law itself, how will they be built, who will choose them, what time and what will their composition be? It has gone so far here that even a legal deadline has been set in which elections for Serbia's Bar of Lawyers must be called. You will have to admit that this is quite unusual and not only unusual, but it is also deeply against the constitution, because it is directly contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, Article 67(2). Furthermore, I can't help but mention the provision contained in Article 6, which is so discriminatory over the holders of judicial functions that it really raises the question of where the end to their further dissuasion is. I'm deliberately talking about this, although I know that part of our amendment has been accepted through someone else's amendment, but I'm simply expressing my surprise that such a provision could ever find its place in a law like this. First of all, there is a restriction here on enrolment of former judicial officials in the law firm's register, within two years of the termination of their duties. So, first of all, they've lost their jobs, which will be proven in the revision of the re-election itself in the largest number of cases, and now they're literally closing their doors to do that job that's the most related to the one they've ever done. That two-year ban is good that it's been erased, but if it hadn't been erased, it could easily be turned into a five-year ban. How? By, for example, you have a situation where a former judge, a legal holder, a deputy public prosecutor, does not matter, submits an application for entry into the law firm's register. First he has to wait two years to get through that period of termination of his duty in order to endure at all, and then it can happen that the bar of attorney rejects his request for entry into the bar. After that refusal, he is obliged to wait another three years to re-apply to the same bar. So, we have a situation where a person who once, before, performed a duty, a function of a judicial officer, is now disabled from being unable to do this work within five years of the end of his post. I say, it's a good thing that part of our amendment in this respect is accepted, but it's not a good thing that this large part of the amendment is not accepted. Please reconsider his vindication and inform us of the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53449	I give my word to MP Daniela Lovrin Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53450	First of all, I would like to thank the Government who accepted my amendment to Article 6 paragraph 10 of the Law on Lawyerry, on the basis of which this ban on the restriction on former judges and public prosecutors, as well as officials in the administration, cannot be dealt with by lawyers. So, there is no such restriction under the new law on law of law and I think that every further debate on this subject is groundless.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53451	The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53452	I will use the time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. A colleague is some part that was accepted probably explained. I would return to Amendment Six, if I were to present one thing that is truly unacceptable to the ministers and the authorised representatives, or their associates. It's totally amazing that after a legal trial, a lawyer's exam is being conducted. We'd still have to know what the content of that bar exam is going to be. Some commissions are being reintroduced, someone's going to be questioned again, and there's going to be some likely fees on all this, some people are going to charge, as is happening in the judicial exam, which is basically fine. But I'm asking a basic question - why should a legal exam be conducted after a trial? There is a code of law, there are certain disciplinary measures. All the lawyers know they don't have the right to advertise, everyone knows that even in the code of law, if you've got a bright commercial on during the night, you've got a problem. What is especially going to happen when a judicial exam is passed is completely unclear. Of course, and this second part of the amendment in Article 10, even though they can be highly divided, I will once again point out the fact of the Constitution, which guarantees freedom of work. I would like to ask the Minister – are there solutions for those people who won't have the right to sign up for a lawyer's register for two years and perform legal action? What are these people gonna do? Of course, since they've spent years in the judiciary, it's very difficult for someone to go to some job at another firm because it's just a little below the level, and what's certainly going to burden the state is a large number of people in institutions and two years, and you'll have a problem with the fact that even those who sign up for law school have to pay, taxes, contributions, the state has certain taxes, incomes, etc. Who's in the interest of who? Why are certain people afraid of competition, whether you're worth it or not? Of course, it is certain that there will not be as much pressure as in the 1990s in law enforcement by legal holders. There's one problem, that maybe some people who were elected judges after five years or six or seven spent simply for various reasons want to change jobs and I don't see any reason to prevent someone from limiting his constitutional rights. It may not be of direct interest, because I'm a lawyer myself, but here a man has to speak as the Constitution says, as I would be sure to be in the position of these people in the judiciary. Simply, the judge has to be completely autonomous, independent, to decide, but I think there's going to be some extra pressure on him because, you know, if I'm not a judge, I can't deal with a lawyer, or if there's any reason to change him, his right is limited. I will ask the question – what about certain freedoms, if someone has not made any problems or not chosen or wants to get out of a job in the judiciary? You know, these are some things that the Constitution must have clearly defined and I don't see why the rights are being restricted here. You know, in other professions you have a problem, of course, you can't identify it, but there is a certain impact of any profession. Let's, for example, ban doctors in the middle, as we started, that they couldn't perform private activity for two years or become some very important name, etc., so they started doing private practice. Where's all this gonna take us? I think that, and if there was something to be limited, it might have been necessary to limit law enforcement in the domicile area, let's say, the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court or something, but simply a ban on two years of law enforcement is practically quite a sanction for these people and, in my opinion, it's unacceptable. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53453	The word is Mr. Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53454	I have no intention of being a spokesman for the Justice Ministry, but the amendment was accepted in the part in which Mr Spasojevic, whom I highly respect, is the amendment by Daniela Lovrin Gavrilovic and this restriction no longer applies. As someone who follows this bill, it seems to me that I can talk about the situation in our judiciary, qualified, and recognized what the Ministry of Justice intended when this provision was originally put in place. It's just that in practice, we've had a situation where a judge or someone who's been involved in a public prosecutor's office has been preparing for law enforcement for years. In that sense, a clientele has been prepared, because someone who passes from the judicial and public prosecutorial office to the attorney's office will certainly not come without being provided for work. It was a really big problem and it'll remain a problem in our judiciary. But, of course, all the arguments, and that's why this amendment, which went in the other direction, seems to have gone too far, and I want to repeat again what I said in the debate in principle. Almost 95% of the provisions of all the laws of this ministry of justice, which is doing its job tremendously, have entered the assembly procedure, and we are now having a debate, and it seems to me that there is a willingness of the Ministry of Justice to accept all the well-intentioned amendments, which the ministry has done and we have, in that sense, received a report. As for this observation by Mr Krasic, whom I highly respect about our journey to Europe, it is certain that we will be an integral part of the family of regulated normal and legal states based on respect for human rights, while others like Slovenia and the former Yugoslavia have gone to that path and today live civilizationally, have a legally regulated state, we still face to the greatest extent the consequences of that policy that broke down the state, broke the institutions, reversed the legal system and at least qualified those most contributed to it being to criticise it now, that this situation improves or those who have changed the company, so they are now representing themselves as some new political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53455	The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53456	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to make certain explanations regarding the discussions that have been discussed so far about the members of the law on law on law, and the first and second parts relating to basic provisions, as well as the conditions of law enforcement, since it is rather unclear here. I thank the People's MP, Mr. Chikiriz, who helped me with that clarification. I would like to point out that the Government has accepted an amendment relating to Article 6 to delete point 10, which has been read for at least two years since the termination of a judicial office or public office in the authority of the administration, if the candidate has been in such a position, it is a condition that someone does not register with the lawyer. So that won't be a condition anymore. There will be general provisions of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and as far as public officials are concerned, but it will not be explicitly laid down in the Law on Lawyerry. Once again, I would like to point out that this bill was primarily written by a lawyer. The justice ministry transferred its powers to the attorney-law itself, members of the working group for the drafting of this law were proposed by the Serbian Bar of Law headed by its president, and representatives of the justice ministry were almost in the role of a technical body that formed these legal provisions. The amendments we have accepted do not violate the very essence of the law, contribute to making the provisions of the law more precise and, as I said in my presentation in the principle debate, contribute to the affirmation of this honorable profession. Also, I want to point out that, in principle, there must be conditions for certain lawyers who want to represent the parties before the Court of Appeal or the Cassation, and that was the idea of what we were thinking and I know that this idea existed at the level of the working group. On my part, I can tell you that I will make sure that such provisions are found in procedural laws. I agree with the discussion that it doesn't matter who goes to the judges, that there must be certain knowledge, but I also want to point out that we don't have a license in our system, so a large number of lawyers, which you know, deal with different areas, have little divided areas to deal with.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53457	The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53458	I've been looking for a replica since Mr. Chikiriz mentioned me, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53459	I don't know what the basis of the replica would be, he didn't mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53460	He mentioned me in a very negative context. Here's the thing, let's say, since I didn't mean to tell you, but obviously I do. It is obvious that the SRS is the only political party that knows the EU very well, the NATO Pact, so it informs citizens what it looks like there. Mr. Chikiriz, I was in a position to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the attorneys of Van der Spul and I represented Vojislav Seselj in front of the disciplinary commission of the Bar Association of the Netherlands. I had to study all the regulations of the Bar Association and the lawyers of the Netherlands. Since Vojislav and the other defender, David Hooper of Great Britain, and there are two lawyers with that name and last name, one very famous for hate speech and another totally anonymous, they imposed this anonymous one on him, so I had to proceed there with Boris Aleksic. In The Hague, I participated in a search where we pointed to the disciplinary failures of Van der Spool. When I say something besides some theoretical knowledge, there's something both practical and please be careful when you're celebrating the EU, because I'm telling you that you've never been in front of a committee like that in the Netherlands. As long as it's a closed system in which a party who complains can speak for two minutes, a three-minute replica, the case closes and defends its lawyer against everything and everything. My experiences in the EU are quite rich, and I don't think there's any need for me to talk every time and to point out that some of my words are based on experience. Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53461	Mr. Chikiriz, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53462	I thank Mr. Krasic. Very short, most of what Mr Krasic said or almost everything is true. In the Netherlands, I had two cases before the court in the Netherlands, and I couldn't, regardless of the legal exam and the fulfillment of the other conditions, to represent myself before those courts. I had to hire a lawyer from Holland. There, procedural legislation is quite different. So, at an oral hearing, you can't repeat what you wrote in the lawsuit or submissions, but it's an extraordinary procedure. The judge asks you, do you have anything new to add, as soon as you start talking about what you have said or already written, the judge interrupts you and says, "No, no, we've heard that, do you have anything new?" And here, in our case, the procedural legislation was largely such that submissions were written explaining the meaning of the previous submission and a thousand and one time repeating something that was unnecessary. Mr Krasic said something else that is interesting to know the opportunities of the EU legal system. It is not strictly uncertain and it is not a copying law, as it is most commonly considered, as now there is a pro-European government that prescribes EU laws or enforces EU dictatorships, it is not true. It's a broad range of legal regulations, but it's important that the meaning is the same, that the rule of law works in different ways. Here's our law on attorneyship just for foreigners is predicted by someone, it seems to us, quite an original solution, that foreigners can give legal advice, opinions, etc., and if they want to represent our courts, they can do it with our lawyer, but they can pass a judicial exam, which is proof that we have closed a little, too, that door to the Dutch, which is talking about them, and that we also hold to our legal system, as they hold to their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53463	Do you want within group time? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53464	Very short, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Well, here, I'm with one man, we're not lawyers, we represented Vojislav Seselj, and Mr. Chikiriz as a lawyer had to have a lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53465	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Mr. Mikovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53466	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in article 6. The draft law defines the conditions for making a decision on enrolment in the lawyer's register. I am aware that it is not always easy to count, that is to say, what should be regulated in the law itself or the bill proposed, and what should be the domain of regulation in some other acts, first of all I mean by the code of professional ethics of a lawyer or another act that can be closer to the regulation of a particular area. In any case, compared to the former Law on Lawyerry of 1998, the proposal for this law is better in many ways, and among other things, in the former Article 4 of that Law, the conditions for making a decision on enrolment in the Book of Lawyers are now defined in Article 6. It's a bill of law. I guess at point 7, it was intended to sort of count everything that could give the lawyer a commercial character and possibly prevent the possibility of a conflict of interest or something that would be incompatible. In this respect, as a condition in the draft law, it is stated that the absence of another registered independent activity or the status of a registered representative, director or chair of a board of directors in a legal person, member or president of the executive board of banks, representatives of state capital, procurators and persons who have been banned from competition by the labour contract. However, as regards one thing, I would not agree with the proposal for this text, because the proposal states that, if there is, a person cannot be entered into the Attorney's Office, it is the status of the chairman of the board of directors in the legal person. What does it mean to be president of the board of directors in law? Legal persons can also be a winning and non-profit organization, NGOs, organizations in science, literature, art, publicity, pedagogy, translation, sports. Can the president of a swimming club or a KUD or a church singing society not be a lawyer? If we adopt the bill as it is written, all those who perform such social functions, who are absolutely in accordance with the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers adopted in 1999, we will come into a situation that the bill regulates something in a different way than it was regulated in the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers. It is the law that I believe that it needs to create frameworks, and more detailed areas to define these other acts that are low-level. In the current Code of Professional Ethics, the lawyer is clearly defined: the lawyer is obliged to avoid any work that his legal work could give commercial character; then, it is incompatible with the law profession at the same time with any other work, except in science, literature, art, publicity, pedagogy, translation and sports. The practice of lawyers shall include the right to participate in the management or management of relevant professional associations and societies. How is he gonna manage something like that if he can't be president of a board of directors like that? Among other things, it has been defined that during the conduct of operations in a leading position in the authorities and other state bodies, public services and businesses, unless it decides to delete, it is that standing and everything else. I have to call on another provision of the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers, which is that it is not contrary to the Code if a lawyer is a member, a manager or a member of a management team in the professional, working and other professional bodies of the Government and NGOs, in humanitarian, non-governmental and human rights and freedom protection organisations, publishing councils, editorial committees and similar organisations, societies and associations. So in this sense, I call on all the MPs, above all I call on the Government's representative to reconsider the possibility that someone who is chairman of the board of directors can be a lawyer. In other laws, the Anti-Corruption Act, including the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers, you have provisions that define and define that it cannot be in any case, as well as in this bill, if the Chair of the Board of Directors means professional engagement, the establishment of a working relationship, it cannot. But allow the possibility that these social affairs can be done by a lawyer, because I think we'll protect society more if professionals can deal with such, especially humanitarian things, sports things, art. I therefore believe that my amendment is to Article 6, and there are two more places in the law, in terms of the conditions for legal trainees and in the part where the incompatible functions are regulated, so these three amendments are linked, to make adjustments in those three places in the bill and to allow this possibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53467	National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53468	As for the proposal, which relates to Article 6, I suggested adding a new position to be read – "regular professors of the university from positive-law cases have the right to enrol in the Book of Lawyers and without a legal examination". This was also in the current law, Madam Minister, this provision. In the countries of the environment, such a solution is also proposed in the law, as I said, Serbia's attorney-in-law, and before that, in all the laws of the former SFRY, that is, their law on lawyerry, in a far wider scope. It is predicted that they can be enrolled in the Book of Lawyers not only regular professors of the Law Faculty of Positive Law, but also all professors, and even all teachers, which means even teachers. So we suggest that an existing solution be kept, which applies to regular professors of law school. So we need to keep an existing solution. Madam Minister, and what Mr. Chikiriz was talking about, you saw that we are the only state that makes such ridiculous concessions. Serbia's lawyer could not represent in the Netherlands, so he had to find a lawyer, and we are now opening doors in Serbia to be able to represent foreign lawyers, but it could only be based on reciprocity and reciprocity.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53469	National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53470	Madam President, at the same time, I am taking the opportunity to ask a question, and I expect to be called on behalf of the amendment to Article 6, because, in your scenario, on page 10, we are in order immediately following the proposal made by colleague Maja Lausevic, according to the government, first on Article 6, and I have been waiting 40 minutes to explain the amendment that we have submitted. Did you skip or there's been some confusion I don't know. The Progressive Group of Serbia has tabled an amendment to Article 6 and it covers three parts of the amendment. The first is to treat the degree of higher education necessary for someone to deal with this job and that amendment was adopted through the amendment of counterpart Maja Lausevic. It's better than nothing. Point 10, which erases the restriction on conflict of interest, which we have very detailedly explained to you through the amendment we have submitted, has been adopted through the amendment of fellow Members Daniela Lovrin. I also thank you. The important thing is that some thing goes by, it doesn't matter as much as whose proposal. I just want to talk about points 9 and 11, which you didn't adopt, and were contained as provisions that should have been amended by amendment to Article 6 of the Law on Lawyerry. We have proposed to you that point 9 is deleted, because the conditions for entering lawyers and meeting technical conditions, as well as the law of the bar to prescribe these conditions, even the right to define the convenience of the work space for law enforcement is not right. So the legal activity of nature is neither technical nor technological. Therefore, there is simply no need for specific technical conditions, no space for any specific characteristics or such. You have to agree with that. Of course, lawyers will try to improve their work by introducing technical innovations, which will increase space, have an attractive location, at some point that is transient, suitable, inevitable, etc., but it must be their free choice. So that can't be the subject of a legal restriction. Article 27. The bill of law states that a lawyer cannot provide legal assistance outside his office, except exclusively in cases of a particular proposal, and that is enough. From the looks of it, what size, which equipment is equipped with the office, it's a matter of opportunity, it's a matter of taste and need of a lawyer. It's simply not a question of even the very professional association, what is the Bar Association? Let's not always go to extremes, to allow each other the extreme extreme of excessive regulation, but now the organ we want to make free to prescribe some rules within the profession. The proposal has not defined how these conditions are proved to be met. For example, for a pharmacy, for a guy who sells sandwiches to kids, we know what he has to have. For this, we say, all, important action, is not prescribed which conditions are to be met. Why would I say that? It can lead to a large number of those fictitious contracts, that someone concludes and rents some space to meet these conditions without actually using it. I guess that's not our goal. It remains unclear how young lawyers, interns and volunteers today will provide a job space for law enforcement, if it is well known how difficult it is for lawyers to get credit to the bank, because it is impossible to prove their creditworthiness because of the income they need to show the bank as creditworthy. You agree that's a fact. So I've been commenting on point 9 as a condition for law enforcement, where you've prescribed what you shouldn't have. I only want to comment on the deadline when a lawyer can re-apply, if he's already refused to sign up once. You're saying that one of the conditions for enrollment is a deadline, a period of at least three years since the final decision to refuse is a request to enrol in the lawyer's register. Why would a candidate who was denied have to wait three years to re-determine his request, if in the meantime he met the conditions for enrolment in the lawyer's directory? I'll list only three cases. Why does a candidate, who, for example, gained citizenship, have to wait three years and not six months? We're not the only parliamentary group that suggested it. Or, for example, why would the person who cancelled the work contract, or secured the work space, have to wait three years to sign in and deal with the lawyer? If you wanted to prevent applying for entry where it is obvious that the candidate does not meet the conditions, it was really necessary to set a shorter deadline and that deadline is quite appropriate as we suggested - six months. Given that this is not only an advocate of one parliamentary group, but that there is a general agreement that conditions of competition should be provided in all areas, why should this restriction in this area do so? So, according to the Public Procurement Act, we have a desire to create the widest space for all to get the right to apply for jobs, by even making lists for those who do some jobs, which have already qualified, up to as short a time as possible. You are thus preventing competition by stalling with the possibility that someone who has in the meantime met the conditions of competition again to get conditions to do this job. I'm really asking you to reconsider this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53471	I'd like to apologize to you, pages 9 and 10 were glued, but you took part. I'm really sorry. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53472	According to the amendment by MP Petar Jojic, who suggests that regular professors of the university from positive-law cases have the right to enroll in the lawyer's directory and without a legal exam. I suppose the good intentions of my colleague Jojic, but I understand the Ministry of Justice, and I agree with the position of the justice ministry. The explanation is next. In practice, we've had several cases. First of all, I want to say that we really do have extraordinary professors of positive law cases. I am proud to have been a student of one Smilje Avramov, Obrad Stanojevic, Mr Hasim, Dragoljub Stojanović, Mr Šoškovic, Mr Jakov Radisic, which I learned from the textbook Orlic, Slobodan Perović, Konstantin Obradovic and the great great greats of positive-legal objects in our country. However, there were several professors of law who, during that former law, were able to enroll themselves in the register of the Bar. Believe me, they didn't get along in practice. Why? The explanation is simple, 30, 40 or 25 years you've been only dealing with one branch of law, largely away from it, and criminal legislation and criminal-processing legislation are being amended, if someone, for example, deals with civil law matter and civil law legislation. Believe me, we had an example, it was hard for us, which the professors didn't get along in the judiciary, because they just didn't have a legal exam. No one slows their vast knowledge but, I say, only in one branch of the area. What Mr. Dincic said about the legal exam, it's a good thing the ministry announced an amendment to this law. Indeed, the existing law is the least inhumane. All of us who passed the bar exam, we laid it down in the time of 16 or 17 hours at noon to three or four o'clock in the morning. You go from cabinet to cabinet, you go into one cabinet, and you just sit down, the professor says -- you go to the other, you go in the other, you wait two hours to start laying down, and then you have six or seven more items to pass. It's really inhumane, exhausting and extremely poorly organized. Again, as far as law professors are concerned, we still go to law school, and according to current law, there are about 14 or 15 of the most important law school cases, and yet it is necessary that someone who really wants to deal with law enforcement, at least refresh that knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53473	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Daniela Lovrin Gavrilovic and MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendments have become an integral part of the draft law. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Vidinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53474	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 6 is one of the more rigid and restrictive members of the Law on Lawyerry. In part, he has been corrected through the intervention of the MPs. However, the good work remained quite restrictive. We have tried to fix the solutions in this article by amendment. Among other things, it bothered us that the three years it took for this legal solution to pass in order to repeat the application for entry into the Bar of Lawyers. We think it's too long a deadline and it really should be shortened, at least for six months, as we have suggested by our amendment. The next proposal was about passing a lawyer's exam, and we felt that the candidate who performed the judicial or prosecution function really shouldn't pass the bar exam. I think it is, in some ways, a question of the expertise of these people who worked in court or in the prosecution, so they were judges or prosecutors and I don't think we should degrade their expertise in this way. The next solution that we have and how it interfered with in this article of the law is point 7, which has already been said and which is, in fact, related to the solution set out in Article 83. The law, which refers to the incompatibility of functions with the exercise of law in the sense that a lawyer cannot be the director of a legal person or chair of a legal person's board in case he wants to continue to deal with law. We believe that this is a good solution because the appointment as director or chairman of the board of directors in law is a very broad term. Only a legal person is very broad to treat law enforcement in this way. What does that mean? It means that we lawyers are challenged by the possibility of doing humanitarian work. We challenge lawyers to be socially useful and socially active outside of the activity that serves them to obtain basic means of life. So, you can't just see a lawyer being watched as one person who's enrolled in a bar with the possibility of dealing with that lawyer, but also someone who might want to do charity work, someone who wants to be socially useful. With a legal solution like this, it makes it completely impossible. We believe that the government should react to all these solutions proposed to the amendments to the MPs we have heard so far, as well as to the solutions that we have made in our amendment from the LDP parliamentary group. We believe that it is not in the nature of the lawyership, it is simply not natural for the lawyer to be as rigid as it is imposed on this member, that there should be some greater breadth and freedom of action, and it should be left to let the lawyers and through their bar of attorneys handle some of the issues that are relevant and when it comes to enrollment in the Bar of Lawyers, the deadlines provided for that entry, as well as in terms of the reason for the termination of the practice of the lawyer, that is, when it comes to the conditions necessary to enroll someone in the Bar. For this reason we support all the rational proposals we have heard in terms of improving this Article 6. Because again, this article 6 is really restrictive and will not give any positive shift to reform this legal action.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53475	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53476	Madam President, Madam Minister, you do not accept this amendment when it comes to a regular professor of law school with positive sciences. I will remind you only that it would be pointless for Professor Vojislav Seselj, who successfully defends himself against The Hague tribunal and who is the only one, unlike Chikiriz, to manage not to need a lawyer, even the most difficult International Criminal Tribunal, to be a professor to anyone who claims to be writers of some laws. Because, as you can see, should Professor Vojislav Seselj now pass a judicial exam, when in the world he is known as an exceptional lawyer of all the legal sciences he could have come to, and the youngest doctor of legal science in the former SFRY? Should it, as was the case, that at the Law School, when I was in Belgrade, that Lieutenant General Lekic was in pre-war training, imagine, and the man of the colonel general? Let's just make an example of Professor Dr. Vojislav Seselj, that professors of law with positive legal sciences should not pass a judicial exam. There, Professor Vojislav Seselj is an example for you to fight and to fight and to know the skills of legal science and to be a nonsense for him to pass another judicial exam.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53477	Anyone else want a word? MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53478	This law was not written because of one man, Professor Vojislav Seselj, who defends himself perfectly against The Hague tribunal, who has indeed provided an extraordinary defense and as a lawyer, I congratulate him and wish him a lot of success in this process. But this is a law that, like all laws, applies to all persons who claim to be a lawyer. Unfortunately, we have in practice a situation where people who do nadrising didn't even go past law school, they know the procedural legislation well, and they sue someone every day, etc. And no one can dispute that skill, even knowing the procedural laws and, of course, the material ones that are subject to the dispute. But, I say, this is not a law regarding Mr. Vojislav Seselj, and we have always said that we wish Mr. Seselj success.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53479	Used one minute of MEP time. Anyone else want a word? If not, National MP Goran Stefanovic has submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Both the Government and the Justice Committee accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Both the Government and the Justice Committee accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Both the Government and the Justice Committee accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53480	We have submitted an amendment to Article 8 and this member treats the deadline within which the Bar Association is required to resolve the candidate's request. We have suggested adding a new position to Article 8 after Article 3 – which is stated – that the decision is to be made and delivered to the applicant within 30 days of the date of receipt of the order. The amendment was rejected by the government as a proposing, explaining that the deadline was defined by a general administrative procedure and that it was applied. If that's an explanation for the refusal of amendments, what are you going to say to the fact that in the applicable law, the deadline is defined and that it is 60 days? So it's not pointless. On the contrary, it is very reasonable to define that term in this law, and we are shortening it. Why? We predicted that the deadline would be 30 days after a complete and orderly request was received, and we think it would be enough time to decide on the fulfilment of the conditions. In the Statute of the Bar of Lawyers, the deadline has not been defined, currently in force. By analogy, we expect the Law Chamber statute to be missed or not defined again. If the legislator doesn't commit the chamber, why would she commit herself to a deadline? We consider it appropriate to write that deadline in law and not to be 60 more than 30 days. If you do not accept this amendment, it may in practice happen that because of the lack of urgency of the bar itself, lawyers will be prevented as candidates from obtaining the status of a lawyer despite having met all the prescribed conditions, which is why it will certainly be that someone who has submitted the application to suffer damage. Let us not, please, say by the independence of the Bar Association, because this bar of attorney must be limited in that independence by the rights of its members, or those who apply to be its members, and we really consider it appropriate to decide within 30 days, as a reasonable period, on the fulfilment of the conditions. Let me give you another additional explanation, if we are to advocate that the state administration, as you are precisely referring to an administrative procedure that defines the deadline, is limited by the deadlines when deciding on the demands of citizens, and why would the Bar be excluded from the defined time limit for meeting the conditions. Because lawyers in the chamber are also someone who decides on the rights of citizens and the very adoption of this law, by trusting public authority, we give them that analogy with public administration tasks and which are required by the deadlines, because that deadline is necessary and for the use of the right to appeal unless the Attorney's Chamber makes a decision within the time limit that we have prescribed, i.e. that it could not be misused or used by that institute to silence the administration. So, the analogy with the deadlines that you prescribe for the state administration because they do public authority and because the statute of the chamber does not prescribe that deadline, we consider the necessary reasons for this amendment to be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53481	Two minutes have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53482	We've provided for Article 9 to replace number 30 with the word 10, which is actually the deadline within which the Bar Association should provide the candidate with conditions for a lawyer's oath. As proof that the profession itself is something that is responsible and deserves to be entrusted with public authority, it is really very important that we do not allow the proposer to come out on such a long-term basis to meet the bad practice of individual legal chambers, and in great time, it is organized to take an oath of law and it is happening in a completely unrepentant and inappropriate atmosphere, with great crowds. We believe that it can be overcome by a 10-day deadline, as a time limit in which an oath is to be taken, to obtain a lawyer's ID and to have someone start law enforcement. Since Article 8 has been provided for a 30-day period to decide on the fulfilment of the conditions, we consider a complete solution to the preceding Article 8 and Article 9 with this amendment supplement and I want and expect you to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53483	Anyone else want a word? National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53484	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 and I have proposed that Article 3 be changed, because it is not an adequate oath of a lawyer which is proposed in the draft resolution in the law, because we believe that it is necessary to amend this text for the following reasons, and that it is said: At the time I enter into the ranks of the lawyer's profession, I swear by my honor that I will exercise my duty as a lawyer in my work to uphold the Constitution, laws and other regulations, the statutes of the Bar and the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers and that I will maintain the reputation of attorney by my actions and conduct. This is the text of the Hippocratic oath, and in all civilized countries, this is the type and frame of the oath. You see how you suggested here, this is something dry. I don't think it's entirely satisfying the essence of the whole thing, which is what it's all about. So accept this amendment. He's far more effective and acceptable, only if you don't want out of spite what the SRS suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53485	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53486	In Article 10, as you can see, Section 3. I suggest that it be precise, first of all, it is not clear, and it is entirely necessary to edit and improve the text of the law to enter a regular number and add the words "day and month" because this is more precise, more complete and logical, more effective. A clearer solution is proposed by the SRS, so it is necessary to edit and improve the text of the law because it is 12 months old, Madam Minister, so it will not be clear in which month a lawyer is entered in the lawyer's register. Is there any reason for this to remain as suggested? You need to think if the bill is passed as you have suggested, whether it will be flawed. I repeat, the year is 12 months old, and there are no months in your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53487	People's MP, I suppose, I apologize if it isn't, that all authorised representatives have been supplied with material on amendments. So the amendment you were just talking about was accepted. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. This amendment has become an integral part of the bill, because everyone has agreed, both the Government and the Committee. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53488	Article 13(4) The draft law on lawyerry is an unconstitutional category, given that foreign citizens are not foreseen by the Constitution as holders of a legal function in Serbia, and in particular that Serbia does not have completed bilateral or multilateral agreements with foreign countries on this issue, i.e. it does not provide for reciprocity for its application, and in particular given that the provisions of the SAA, as well as the provisions of the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Issues, to which the Proposer is called on page 35. The bill can only be binding on the Republic of Serbia if they are in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as explicitly prescribed by Article 194(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so the provisions of this Agreement and this proposal cannot be mechanically incorporated directly into the text of the bill, as the proposer does. I suggest that this amendment be adopted because it has absolute logic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53489	The word has the justice minister, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53490	Since there have been a lot of speeches in the debate in principle regarding the position and conditions of law enforcement by foreign citizens and I will try to explain to you and the citizens of Serbia what the Ministry of Justice or the Working Group, which the lawyers primarily had in mind, was doing. It is one of the conditions for our country's WTO accession, but of course we didn't want to do it casually, but we tried one way to sort it out where it wouldn't violate the position of domestic lawyers. I want to read article 17. The constitution, since there have been a lot of words about whether this is against the constitution or not, relating to the position of foreigners, which says that foreigners in accordance with international contracts have in the Republic of Serbia all rights guaranteed by the Constitution and law, except for the rights that only citizens of the Republic of Serbia have under the Constitution and law. Then, Article 67. The constitution that regulates the right to legal aid says in Section 2: "The legal aid provides for advocacy as an independent service and legal assistance services established in local self-government units in accordance with the law. "With this bill of law, we have prescribed conditions that do not violate the position of domestic lawyers. In my view, compared to the experiences that exist in Europe, I would say that these conditions are much more severe than they are in other countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53491	National MP Petar Jojic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53492	Madam Minister, if we had concluded an international agreement with countries of either continental or Anglo-Saxon law or if we had reciprocity, it would not be controversial if we had become a member of the EU. We are not members of the EU, we do not have international contracts, how do we now favour foreigners, open the door slowly and they will put Serbia's lawyer at risk. We shouldn't allow it unless there's a mutuality. In that case, you would be right about this proposal, this absolutely, when there is no reciprocity, when we are not EU members, until then nothing obliges us and should allow foreigners to earn money in Serbia and take money from Serbian lawyers, and tomorrow Serbian lawyers are servants of large companies and large offices from abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53493	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53494	New Serbia's amendment to Article 14(1), where we also address the conditions of reciprocity and demand that after the word "national" the words "under the conditions of reciprocity" be added. Carefully listening to Ms. Minister's explanation and listening to the previous speaker, we really believe that the reciprocity of the current and the Institute of Contemporary Law, especially when it comes to the fact that the Bill of Lawyers has been submitted by an urgent procedure for the reason of joining our country, the WTO, among other things, makes it logical to apply the rules of reciprocity to protect both the interests of domestic parties and lawyers, as well as the interests of the parties and lawyers of the countries belonging to the WTO. So, what we insisted on by submitting this amendment as a parliamentary group, we think we will have enough understanding in the justice ministry, is a relationship to the protection of Serbia's lawyers. We feel that this amendment should certainly have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53495	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic jointly submitted to the 14th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53496	Mrs. Malovic, as provided for in Article 14, these are the conditions for enrolment of foreign citizens' lawyers and this member of the law provides for enrolment in the directory of foreign citizens' lawyers to pass both the judicial exam and the bar exam. With our amendment, we have proposed to abolish this obligation to pass a judicial exam, certainly a legal exam to get to know the code, the statutes and the laws, but we believe that this is an unnecessary overload. We have nothing against competition, some foreign lawyers, if they have jobs and can work, work in Serbia, but it is inevitable to introduce the principle of reciprocity. If a German can do that job in Germany, he should be able to work here, but our lawyer in a country abroad can, under the same conditions and the same rights to represent parties abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53497	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was tabled by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that Article 15a be sent to a new member of the 15a. The word has a folk MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53498	The SNS amendments to the Law on Attorneyship were not written by lawyers. Many took the right to speak for themselves about the quality of this law, and on behalf of the SNS. I'm telling you that the quality of this law speaks of 29 amendments submitted to a law that has 95 members. We wanted as objectively as possible to look at this law in the light of the interests of citizens and those who are obliged to protect these interests as lawyers before the authorities of this country, wanting to achieve equal justice for everyone, for a moment a colleague spoke about it, as well as equal conditions of business for everyone. I think it was necessary to accept the addition of Article 15a, which I consider crucial to this law, because he is the only one talking about protecting those of whom should be earned and whose interests should be protected from the authorities. You have refused to include what we have defined as a duty to the party in the existing law, with an explanation that the duties of a lawyer to a party are governed by law, the statute of the Bar, the code of professional ethics of lawyers, as prescribed in Article 15(2) of the Law proposal. I claim that the proposal does not speak anywhere in the entire text about obligations to its clients, please see the law – in principle he prescribed a member of 15. We think it's a completely wrong approach. Is it one of the conditions for us to pass the Consumer Protection Act, in general, as a condition for us to join the ranks of those who hold to our citizens, not only as freedoms of rights and human beings, and that individuals are the most important ones? Yeah, that individual is the most important thing when we respect the law. We are passing the Consumer Protection Act in the area of financial services, and why we are missing the opportunity to protect the users of legal services from the only situation I'm going to tell you about, and you have to accept that I'm right if the situation is in line with the interest of clients and lawyers, and if the situation of the lawyer's interest differs from the interests of the clients at all, people don't want to hire lawyers at all, because the legal profession has largely lost its reputation, and everything they can do themselves. People want their dispute resolved as soon as possible, and the lawyer wants as many submissions as possible. He doesn't mind frequent gaps between appointments, they want to have as many disputes and as many problems as possible because it's their production volume. The citizen wants to solve his legal problem with the least possible compensation. Not only to pay less, but to do the job as soon as possible and to help him achieve his right not to be played, not to be the subject of negotiations, of what the court, lawyers, experts and what we all witness, as an abuse to a large extent of the system itself, both the judiciary and the legal profession. Then why did you refuse to define this responsibility to the party through Article 15a? Recommendation R (2000) No. 21 The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which you call upon here when writing this law, among other things, writes – the duty of a lawyer to his clients is as follows: to advise them on their legal rights and obligations, to point to the likely outcome of the proceedings of the consequences of the case, including financial costs. The lawyer must seek, first and foremost, to resolve the case in a peaceful manner, and in accordance with these recommendations and with the Code of Conduct for European Lawyers, we have laid down the basic principles of the European legal profession, adopted by the Council of Bars and Legal Associations of Europe, and this amendment has provided for more responsibilities of lawyers to their parties. Why isn't it involving some organized institutional society? Lawyers are obliged to protect the party's interest. Accordingly, they are required to consult with the party and the party must determine what is its interest. That's what we predicted with this amendment. If, on the eve of any violation of his client's rights, for example, under the circumstances that the client is deprived of liberty, he requires that the lawyer act without delay. And that's what we've defined as Article 15a. When a lawyer has a large number of clients, he is often not in constant contact with the party. The party's right to be informed of what is happening to its subject and at what stage, what is favourable to it and what are possible outcomes, it is nothing and nowhere defined. We really don't think it was too much for these details to be dealt with by the law. We predicted that the party could at any time, for whatever reason, ask the lawyer to deliver the files from her case, because it was the procedure in which the party's rights were decided, the party's obligations. She really should have, and also a client, that party, right and insight into all the documents, as well as own them and get them when she asks for them. Do I have to tell you once again, to remind you, that we all exist because of citizens whose rights we want to regulate, that we are all Members of Parliament at times -- power, opposition, position, but we are always citizens who need this profession's services. If we don't think of others, we think of each and every one of us, because we need rights and protection from lawyers from the conclusion of the treaty, to resolve the right of the desert, not counting on us to have, by force of human nature and impulse, and those negative and bad situations in which each of us finds ourselves, but really not to be the subject of neither abuse nor abuse, nor bargaining, but not the political promotion of the alleged knowledge of some lawyers, who, in fact, political shortcuts and political friendships hire even in such a way. So, by following the European Directives, experiences and charters, we have proposed to you an addition in the form of Article 15a. I would ask you, I would agree not to explain a single member further, if the government, if you would come to an understanding, that this law exists not because of the chamber, not because of the lawyers, but because of the citizens who need the services of lawyers and the chamber that will arrange their business. Why would doctors encounter problems when they commit a professional offence or fail to act properly? Why would everyone else have protection and responsibility, and lawyers don't have the right to that kind of protection or lawyers don't have a responsibility to their clients, not in that final outcome when they're exposed to public ridicule through quite certain political use of the affair in the paper. Let them be protected by law, it is our duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53499	Six minutes and 45 seconds of the group's deputy president's time have been used. The People's Messenger Srdjan Mikovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53500	I'd like to say a few words about the proposed amendment. We have the view of one parliamentary group that what does not have to be regulated by law, that it should be regulated by the statute and by certain other acts. We also have a proposal from individual parliamentary groups to regulate Article 67 in a way that will allow the Bar Association to regulate certain matters itself. On the other hand, we have an amendment that regulates something that has already been regulated and that I believe should be regulated further, but above all by other acts, such as the code of professional ethics of lawyers. We in Vojvodina have often been in contact with the code, not only in the register of legal interns, not just after that in the register of lawyers, practically, each of us who dealt with law enforcement in Vojvodina and had opportunities with their own principles, and also by the Bar of Lawyers, to be familiar with the rules of conduct, means, professional rules of conduct and the basics of attorney ethics. The fact is that many who later or on the side of the lawyerry may not be able to get acquainted with it, however, and on the Vojvodina bar site, and I suppose on the Serbian Bar Association site, there is a code of professional ethics of lawyers. Anyone can get to know those rules. I would only direct you that whoever can read the publication "Advocacy" of our esteemed colleague Milorad Bokic, published in Novi Sad in 1991, where he explained the question of the professional ethics code of lawyers in general in the world, and also in the area of Yugoslavia, among other things, what was done in the territory of Croatia, in the area of Serbia, in the field of Vojvodina, I speak as part of Serbia. I must say again, since the truth has been brought forth here, that nowhere has this area been regulated. I would just point out that exactly in the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers, it is taxingly much more detail than the amendment regulates when a lawyer is required to refuse representation, e.g. Only obligations to the client are defined in detail. I must use the time of the parliamentary group. Among other things, I point out that in the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers, adopted in 1999, it was defined that a lawyer should seek to gain and maintain client trust. In the first interview or in preparation for representation, the lawyer should point to the client's interests to reveal initiatives and objectives and to present the facts and evidence truthfully and in full, on the rule that the confidentiality of the data presented is protected by the obligation to keep the attorney's secret, on his assessment of the actual and legal contents of the case, on the type and basic characteristics of the procedure to be applied, in the manner of the calculation and collection, both at the exact and approximate amount of the prize and the costs. Then, the lawyer is obliged to treat all clients and cases equally securely and professionally, to act in representation without undue delay. That's defined. Then, to inform the client of any significant changes in the case, and to the request of the client and of all the details, to inform the client of all changes in his legal and factual assessments, to the client on his request, with the exception of personal notes and original copies of the submissions he made himself, to hand over all documents, records, copies and copies of his own submissions, other submissions and decisions, whether or not representation is ongoing or cancelled and whether the reward and costs are paid or not. In order to enable the client to gain insight into the tariff, it points to the possibility that the rewards and costs that the court or other competent authority will pay to the burden of the opposite parties shall be less than his or her account and, when requested, the client shall submit to him the fee and the costs. That the client receives in time marked in the attorney's office. When imposing client interests and allowing legal assumptions, a lawyer should seek to resolve the case in a peaceful manner by means of an out-of-court procedure prior to the initiation of the dispute. As a representative, and especially as a defendant of the defendant who is in custody, the lawyer is obliged without delay to point to all violations of the rights of defence and other violations of the law at the expense of his client, not at any time assuming his interests with other lawyers, judges, prosecutors and other participants in the proceedings. When drawing up documents and in bilateral legal matters, the lawyer is a representative of both parties and is obliged to protect their interests in a safe way, regardless of which one of them first addressed him and who pays the prize. Now that I'm not reading everything about attorney's secrets and everything else, there's a regulated area in the code of professional ethics. The amendment promoter has called for international acts. It also exists in our country and is applied, and acting against the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers implies the possibility of launching a disciplinary procedure, as well as punishing lawyers in front of disciplinary bodies within legal chambers. In any case, I understand the good intentions of the applicant of the amendment, but I also point out that these areas are well, detailedly regulated within the bar, and it is normal that after the adoption of this law, if the statutes are changed or if the code of professional ethics of lawyers is renewed, there will be a domain of regulation, but again within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53501	Seven minutes of MP time was used. The word has been made by MP Mirko Chikiriz, and the national envoy, Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53502	I would sign under Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic's good intentions, but without doubt I propose that the amendment be rejected for all the reasons presented by Mr. Srdjan Mikovic and under every of his spoken words I would sign in the reasons why this should not be put into law. Simply, we were often in the congregation almost when we had a very good law, there was an objection, since there was not much to say about the essence of the law, that the law was too large, and if the law is with fewer members, then there goes the objection – your law is very short. This law is exactly what it's supposed to be and it's left exactly the code of professional ethics for a lawyer to regulate all this Mr. Srdjan Mikovic talked about, and the statute of the Bar Association of Lawyers. Now we come to what we discussed at the beginning of this debate, and to the legal exam, because all of this is regulated also by international documents and regulations concerning legal action. It's absolutely unnecessary to be in this law. This is just for the sake of the public, so that no impression remains, the Assembly and most will vote on the Justice Ministry's bill, in which mobsters lawyers do not care about client interests. That's not true at all. This law, once again, has been written by the waist and the law is excellent, and we are only improving it with these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53503	A minute and 35 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53504	If you allow a replica, and if not, from the time of the parliamentary group, I will speak. I don't want to defend myself with good intentions, I say - we have a request for attorney duties to be introduced into the law because it's not enough that there's a code, vanguards and good business practices. That proves our reality. In addition to my claim, it says that the introduction of the obligation to protect clients and to introduce new obligations into the law, and the existing obligations under the code, are opposed to exactly two lawyers I respect and respect, says in favour of the claim that if you really are someone who respects the code, what bothers you to put it into the law, and it is necessary as an experience we face every day, bearing in mind that to a large extent the rights of customers are being misused. You know, there's a Hippocrates oath, so it breaks. How many violations of the Hippocratic oath are found in the newspaper and how many have been covered by the country and marked with monuments. There are concerns about construction, so how many ceilings have been derailed despite the existence of supervisory authorities, the existence of fears about construction, the contract that regulates the deadlines in which the contractor is obliged to improve the quality of the works carried out, so much easier to protect the interests of the party and the client if the law prescribes that the interest of the party is protected, and not only if the code defines it. We live in a time where greed, selfishness, indifference to others, and the desire to earn money are limitless. We can't allow it. ) that the institutions, I will end from the time of the parliamentary group, please, function on no one's conscience, but on a strictly defined responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53505	Ambassador Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53506	Just because it is said that lawyers have spoken of this amendment, I must say that in each profession there are those who are safe and responsible and legally doing their job. Again, I have to say that the bill promoter has well prescribed mandatory insurance against professional responsibility, that's another way of protecting clients, but in any case, I have to say, that real and good lawyers, safe people don't need the law to learn how to behave. Conscious, responsible, honest people carry it from home, learn it at school, learn it at work from their colleagues who have to be recognized and do not need a certain thing even legally regulated. A good law should be passed, a law should provide for certain frameworks, but in any case, if there is a possibility of adopting professional ethics of a lawyer, so I don't see what is a stronger act that can exist in a moral sense that will oblige any lawyer to behave in accordance with basic, moral postulates, but rather the code of professional ethics of a lawyer, who himself, will be seen as the best examples in the history of law enforcement in these areas, will be able to define in norm. Anyone who wants to read something about the history of Yugoslav law, who wants to read something about the good examples of the safe and responsible doing of this job, a very difficult job, has enough to look up to those honorable lawyers who have done it over the years that have passed. That's what I was talking about in the principle debate, just mentioning a few wonderful examples of lawyers who even suffered themselves for the protection of clients and don't impute to me what I think if the amendment didn't fully regulate this area that it should be inserted into the text. I agree that, if there is a possibility, if we were to rewrite the code of professional ethics of a lawyer and put it into law, that is a complete norm. This isn't a complete norm after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53507	Three minutes used by the MPs' group. MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53508	Just to relate to my colleague Mikovic, he took away some of my thought, if we're going to accept this member then he only prescribes one segment of what it takes to prescribe. For example, there is no provision in this article that a lawyer is obliged to file quality complaints. You know, someone can write a complaint in two or three sentences without making any sense and say I filed a complaint. The appeal must be of quality. Well, then it's got to be time-out, and then it's got to be writing time-outs. To make submissions not only for cost increases but for them to have full meaning, to write complaints in good time, to respect court terms, and to access the debates in time. I say, all of this is unnecessary here to stand, especially because it does not cover everything that is in the code of legal ethics and international documents.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53509	One minute of the MP's time was used. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53510	I will speak within the time of the parliamentary group and very briefly. All that he somehow tried to caricate fellow Chikiriz about writing an appeal, not to be of two sentences, was contained in the position of the Fourth Amendment, where he said that during the procedure in which he represented the party's lawyer he was obliged to make every effort to achieve the most favourable and economical solutions per party. Let us not now defend ourselves by lack of regulation or by reregulation in order to protect the interest of the party. I see this as a lack of intention that justice is equal for all and protection equals for all consumers, clients are provided in this law, but most of it is to decide and thank you, President, for the allowed replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53511	One minute of the MP's time was used. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 17th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, in order to make an introduction to the next story, I must refer to the next one. You said the draft or working version of this bill was done by lawyers. 151 amendments have been submitted to this law, and 25 amendments have been accepted. To the most extent, lawyers wrote, namely, from all parliamentary groups, not only opposition but also positional. You quoted one moment of the Constitution and told me what a lawyer was. Just to remind ourselves, that the law has begun to develop, and today we are really talking about an important profession, in an ancient period, and its esnafic forms have been given somewhere in the Middle Ages. We don't want to talk about the past anymore. We're going to the future. You said the reasons for this law, not the only one, but one of the very important ones is the adoption of the 2006 Constitution. In the Constitution, Article 67 defines law as a special service, so it provides professional assistance to natural persons and legal persons, but here in Article 17 of the Bill you said it was an activity, and I need to remind you that the activity of retail trade is a big trade, where a certain commission is taken. The work is Homen, so I recommend that Vuk Dincic run for that kind of action because maybe he would have done it better, and have you seen which applause was accompanied by his discussion about the settlement that the prosecution did with certain defendants. This is just proof that no one has any more serious words about judicial reform, not even in the congregation’s majority that supported all these laws. I can't say it's your wish, because you're acting completely different, but at one point, reading this law, I could get the impression that you're standing for one principle that exists in Serbia, and it's never been like that, and it's a legal concession when the minister determines and who will be all the lawyers and where their office will be. That's what someone in your name wants to provide such a lawyer, not the one most attorneys stand for. If these were done by lawyers, it is not possible that there are so many objections, or so many amendments to this law. What a quality these lawyers are, because I have no doubt, we have good lawyers, security and this discussion where Srdjan Mikovic spoke, how to become a good lawyer, what are good behaviors, of course, in every profession it comes from birth, so throughout the working century and later we pass on to generations that come behind us. There seems to be something wrong with this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53513	Two minutes and 50 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53514	I just have a question -- am I going to have the opportunity to speak in accordance with Article 17a as additions and by Article 17, this change in item 1, where we add the position from 2 to 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53515	Amendment by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53516	Okay. Before I say a word or two about training, about specializations and that professional training of lawyers, I just want one single sentence to add, going back to the previous amendment, you won't mind. So, there is a code, there are legal chambers, but I won't mention a name or a damaged one, but I'll say that in one big city in Serbia, with 100,000 dinars, there's a fine lawyer in a disciplinary procedure run against him by a bar, and he lost by not showing up in court disputes for eight people damaged by millions of sums. I'll deliver it to my colleagues, to the lawyers, to the esteemed, the documentation of where I'm proving that it's not enough that there's neither a code nor a chamber itself as someone who protects client interests. Why is it necessary in a different way to edit a permanent training programme and that it is nevertheless necessary for the legislator to prescribe some basic conditions and standards? Practice shows that constant training and learning in law production, which here is our specialty, is really a necessary and permanent need. It also shows that the number of seminars and trainings has increased in all areas, including in law enforcement, but we all know that the problem is their quality. Training is often reduced to classic lectures, which are not cheap, so it represents an additional economic burden for lawyers, but without some great and direct benefit that can be given to them in future work. So we use the opportunity to really point out the necessity of prescribing training and education of the law school, which must take care of both quality and usefulness of training. I would like to add that there are a number of law offices and societies that declare themselves specialising in certain areas of law without prior control of the fulfilment of the conditions. Also, there is no register of specialized law offices and the issue of specialization in law enforcement is not arranged at all. What's really important to keep in mind, if we want to increase the quality of legal services, it's a specialization right, which needs to be given a significant place. If in medicine it is necessary to have a specialist, it is also necessary in law. Lawyers receive broad education in all areas of the right to university, through traineeship practice, passing judicial and legal exams and through continuous training. However, specialization in the existing conditions is really a necessary condition for anyone who wants to be competitive in this business. This is a prerequisite, and if we want domestic law to be measured with achievements in the world and other offices, and it is clear that in times of transition and in what we call economic development, we need to have offices of such rank and levels specialising in that they can sign contracts with investors, in which the rights of both our countries and our companies will be protected, and that we simply do not have arbitration of various kinds, in which the state pays the costs again on the burden of citizens and from the budget. So, the existence of specialization for a job must be a decisive criterion. So we in Article 17a, where we are talking about the specialization of lawyers, and Article 17, where we have added opinions from 2 to 5, we really wanted to arrange, to complement your need to regulate the area of permanent professional training and learning in the field of law, and just by putting my lawyer in the rank of medicine, I want to point to the importance of this profession, and therefore also to the responsibility of the legislator when this area is governed by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53517	Three minutes of MP time was used. The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53518	I appreciate the exposure. I must say, in principle, I really agree with the discussion of Jorvanka Tabakovic. I believe professional training of lawyers is important, as is the case with other legal holders. We can't introduce any legal institute unless we have an adequate education among all. During my stay in America last year, I saw that there was a full correlation between judges, prosecutors and lawyers, if we talk about education, and that certain programmes of minors bring together. We have, in this bill of law, raised in some way to the level of the law the way we prescribe training, the training of lawyers, because in law, we have said that the training program brings a bar, and hence the training programme that has been raised to the legal level will have an obligation. And I also thank you for the case you've set, and I think it's a drastic example, and it says that it's not supposed to be done, and I'm glad that this bill, I'm sure, will be able to contribute when it's passed as a law so that such cases don't happen. This bill introduces the possibility of ensuring professional responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53519	The word has an MP, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53520	I could not agree with the amendment to Article 17, where a certain text is added, and among other things, where it is said that continuous professional training must be adapted to the area of law that a lawyer deals with and cannot last more than 80 hours a year. That was proposed by the amendment. That's eight days. In this regard, I believe that the restriction of the ability to perfect any lawyer, lawyer, graduate lawyer or person employed in law offices, which is allowed to be perfected before the law school, is not necessary. If someone wants to perfect himself for more than ten days, why doesn't that possibility open? There are many areas, the adoption of amendments would limit as much as it can't, and I don't think we can do that. In any case, again, I understand the desire to accidentally make a new decision not to burden the budget of certain lawyers or law offices in the sense that they should pay for some improvement. Again, it cannot be restricted if someone wants to perfect himself in the area of corporate law or insurance, or as regards minors or certain less than one area of law, which falls within the area of law. So in that sense, I don't think you could accept such an amendment. On the other hand, the bill stipulates that Serbia's Bar Association will bring in a professional training programme for lawyers. Who is more invited than Serbia's Bar Association to determine and adopt a professional training programme for lawyers, given the content of the training, taking into account possible costs for such training. In any case, I believe that regarding this amendment and the next amendment, where certain things are regulated regarding the law school, and when we move on to the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53521	Three minutes used by the MPs' group. The right to a replica of the MP, Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53522	I really don't think you misread this amendment to Article 17. No one forbids me and you to be further educated in our spare hours this afternoon. But what's mandatory is training and training, which costs and drags a lawyer away from regular work, has to be in some way both time and cost-limited, so he doesn't turn himself into pulling a lawyer away from his basic job. That's the intention that's visible, and in the light of the amendment, that's what it says. So, four weeks or five days a week for four hours, so a lawyer can work and earn for his expenses, for insurance and all that the state needs to pay, and you know it's not a small cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53523	MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53524	It means what was said to me -- what was considered under that amendment and what was wanted. But I must say that the amendment stands explicitly - continuous professional training must be adapted to the area of law that the lawyer deals with and cannot last more than 80 hours a year. That's what it says. What we wanted was one thing, but I say again what it says. In that sense, I can't agree with what it says.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53525	Ambassador Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53526	Mr. Mikovic, take page 5 of the law where it writes – professional training, Article 17, which says: "The lawyer is obliged to constantly achieve... ". So we're talking about the extent of the obligation prescribed by Article 17. We're not talking about the right to free additional training and training. So I believe that you understand and that this is one of the attempts of that law lock, where you want to show that the other side is wrong. In that sense, I'm going to respect your attempt and I'm counting on it to be clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53527	MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53528	I believe that the draft law in Article 17 clearly defines the obligation, both legal and moral, of any lawyer who seeks to do his job in a safe way, to monitor the innovation of every law and the adoption of new laws, and accordingly provides adequate legal assistance to its clients. So, in that sense, this article 17. A bill of law, and I get it. That it is the duty of every lawyer, not only when he has passed the judicial exam and sworn to say – well, now I don't care if I'm going to deal with the law 10, 20, 30, 40 years, but it's an obligation to follow, so if there's been a change of the Traffic Safety Act, if there's been a change of procedural laws, a law on litigation, a law on criminal proceedings, or if there's been a change of any matter, whether material or procedural law, whether it's being followed, and that in an adequate way, it helps those who are lawyered and there is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53529	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 17a be added after article 17. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53530	I can't miss the chance to take these two minutes. I've already talked in principle about the need for attorney specialization to be arranged in a certain way. In order to be declared a specialist in a particular area of law, it must be preceded by some control of the fulfillment of the conditions. I am now taking the opportunity to ask the question why the proposal did not settle this issue, and it cites specialization, and what is the belief of the specialization issued by the Bar Association to Article 86. A suggestion? This question just has to be regulated by law, at least basically. With this amendment, we prescribe a way that could be arranged, we foresee the right of a lawyer to recognise the specialization through the certification and registration of a specialization in the lawyer's directory. In this way, all interested persons can be introduced to whom lawyers specialize in a particular area of law. We've prescribed that he must have some experience in the area, which he's granted specialization. Closer regulation of species and conditions for specialisation should indeed be determined by Serbia's Bar Association. We suggest that specialization can also be recognised as a legal partner society, if one of the members of society has a recognised specialty.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53531	The word has an MP, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53532	Article 86. The bill clearly defines that Serbia's Bar Association as a special body in charge of permanent training of lawyers, lawyers, graduate lawyers and persons employed in law offices and societies, the improvement of the theoretical and practical knowledge and skills of lawyers needed for professional, independent, effective and ethical lawyers, the specialisation of lawyers, the issue of a belief in a particular area of law and law. The establishment, organisation and work of the Law Academy and the adoption of a general and specialized training programme are being arranged by the statutes and other acts of the Serbian Bar Association. I suggest that certain areas require a particular specialisation of lawyers, especially in the protection of the rights of minors. So, in such procedures it is necessary that a lawyer, normally with a passed judicial exam, also has a certain specialty. The judges who handle these cases must have a certain specialty. However, I also point out that it is the constitutional right of every lawyer to practice law at all. Whether someone will be better or weaker in a particular specialty can also be asked a question in any other area. Is a certain builder better or less good? So we should make a distinction here anyway. What are the specializations that other imperative regulations require to exist are completed, which are specializations that will allow individual lawyers and the attorney's office to fight better for the client and that, just having some specialization, just like some lawyers have a certain academic calling of a magistrate or a doctor, will it in any way deepen the trust of a potential client in a particular lawyer or law firm. In that sense, I believe that the bill adequately regulated this area. We are left with lawyers to fight within Serbia's Bar Association that exactly the professional training programme of lawyers will be appropriate and appropriate for this moment in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53533	Three minutes of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53534	We tried to enable the law offices and lawyers to provide adequate legal assistance to the client in 19th. The interest of a client, we really know that it must not be in conflict, nor must a lawyer be in certain relations with other persons, that loyalty to a client can be questioned. This is where we tried to separate the terms "representation" and "legal assistance", because we believe that the solution given in article 19 is a poor distinction, i.e. the difference between representation and legal assistance. I'll explain what's going on. So, Article 1. The proposal prohibits a lawyer from providing legal assistance if he represented the opposite party in the same legal case, but representation is only one form of legal aid. Since this case is about the same person who should act for two other parties in the same legal case, it is necessary to replace the word "representation" with "legal aid". To the point. 2nd and 3rd, we have made changes in order to bring this member of the proposal into line with the amendments we propose in the following amendments, so that we have extended the obligation for a lawyer to refuse to provide legal assistance in cases where he was an intern in a joint office, i.e. a partner legal society in which the opposite party is represented in the same legal case. It is understood, then, that it has information that can be misused at the expense of one of the clients. Since it was a situation where the lawyer did not personally represent the party, he only participated in the work of the office or society where the party was represented, we left the term "representation" rather than "legal assistance". Of course, these amendments do not prohibit lawyers from drawing up contracts or other documents for both parties, i.e. parties, because they are not in the dispute and are not the two opposite parties. So precision requires us to separate jobs that are representation, which are legal aid, and not to lead to a situation where we actually lose what's called a lawyer's ethics, which is why we're going to question a client's loyalty, but that we don't do that kind of restriction where there's no loyalty and there's no such thing as a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53535	One minute of the MP's time was used. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Srdjan Mikovic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53536	In the term "legal secrets", I would like to mention something called, in fact, in general -- keeping human secrets as basic human rights. But simply, if we could refresh this discussion a little bit, I'd say something that I think is appropriate to the existence of the term "legal secrets" and "secrets at all." Our Seneca says, "No one will be silent about what he has heard. But no one's going to tell you as much as he's heard. And whoever doesn't shut up won't even shut up from who he heard it from. Every man has someone he trusts, even though he was trusted when the secret was entrusted to him. So from what was supposed to be a secret, a bunch of stories and doing someone harm and praise.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53537	Anyone else want a word? MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53538	I believe that this adopted amendment to the bill has found the right measure of how much the attorney's secret should be represented, so that matter in the law itself. Again, we point to the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers, where in a large number of members is defined and subject to secrecy, keeping secrets, and as regards keeping a secret that a lawyer is required to warn both personally and personally both officers and associates in the office, acting on the transfer of confidential contents to postal shipments, certain rules, etc. means the matter itself of disclosing secrets and banning the abuse of secrets. Just thinking that the bill has regulated this area enough, and that everything else needs to remain regulated in the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers, I think it should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53539	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Bojan Djuric submitted to the 20th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an MP, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53540	This amendment also agrees with the proposed amendment to Article 6. The draft law, because if I could agree that a lawyer does not have the right to establish a working relationship, to have another registered independent activity, to be a statute representative or director in a legal person, a member or president of the executive board of banks, a representative of state capital, a procurator or a person who is banned from competition by a labour contract, I do not think there should be a ban on a lawyer to be chaired by a legal person's board of directors. I repeat – the legal person can also be a cultural and artistic society and a particular legal person in the fields of science, sport and there should be no such restriction. We have a situation that if we pass this bill, we will come to a somewhat contradictory situation, that, for example, a lawyer can be in public office in the republic, in the province, in local self-government at all functions that do not require the establishment of a working relationship, and for example, he will not be able to be chaired by a legal person's board. For example, a lawyer can be a member of the board of directors of a large public utility company that turns big money, but will not be president of the museum's board of directors. Is that a little illogical? And not only that, he won't be able to be president of the board of directors of a cultural and artistic society, so he'll be head of a folklore or any sports organisation or NGO. It is in this sense that I have also proposed an amendment to Article 6 and this amendment to Article 21, as I will explain in relation to the incompatibility of the alleged conduct of the work of the legal trainee and chair of the management board of the swimming or cultural and artistic society. So, in any case, I urge you to reconsider this and adopt these three amendments because all three follow the same matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53541	In order to ensure the consistency of working bodies, procedures and Articles 27, I would like to refer to MP Srđa Mikovic to cooperate with the Deputy Secretary-General and the possibilities for the procedure for the correction of the amendments which have been discussed by the working bodies, but to establish this with the Deputy Secretary-General and to see if there is a possibility and what would be defined by the correction at this point. Of course, this applies to other amendments that there is a dilemma because it is a very small part in which there is disagreement between the will of the promoter to discuss the amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53542	Mrs. Malovic, article 21 provides jobs that are incompatible with the reputation and independence of the lawyer, and it is clear in this article that the law has tried to interfere and affect the independence and independence of the legal profession. We believe that the law should prescribe the necessary conditions and leave greater freedom to the bar, to regulate certain conditions through its statute and through its code of conduct. We agree, and our amendment has just gone in this direction, as Mr. Mikovic said, and we have predicted the same thing about the chairman of the board of directors in law. But, of course, he's something wider, and I'll be free to read it, because I really don't understand the explanation the government gave me, which is why this amendment is being rejected. "The lawyer has no right to establish a working relationship except in a law firm or a law firm, to be a statute representative or director in a legal person, the president of the executive board of banks, a representative of state capital or a person who has established a ban on competition. "I think we'll agree on this and we'll accept it either through the board or through some editorial. The lawyer cannot have another registered independent activity. The Statute of the Bar Association and the Code of Law shall be drawn closer to the tasks referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, and other tasks may be provided for. This is what we wanted to give the possibility of certain jurisdiction being signed by the Bar Association. We have foreseen this amendment in addition to the law firm and the law firm, and we will, of course, explain that when it comes to Article 47 of the Law, which is why we have made this proposal. We don't get it. You said the proposal was written by the Bar Association and the lawyers? I really don't understand that lawyers themselves, in this way, give up some of the rights and some of the opportunities that belong to them. I believe that both DSS lawyers and MPs who are lawyers certainly did not want to deny themselves certain opportunities, competences in the business, because the explanation states that the law firm and the establishment of a lawyer's employment relationship in a law firm is not in line with the independence and independence of lawyers and lawyers. I really don't see how the independence and independence of a law profession is compromised if lawyers are allowed to be employed by a law firm and a law firm is established. We said that we want competition, we want the best to get a chance to work, we want to regulate how foreigners and under what conditions can represent the parties in this country, we want our domestic law firms and law firms to represent the interests of our citizens, not to do business, as is the case with Telecom, and they trust some foreign offices. We believe that the legal profession can respond, the domestic means our Serbian law profession, can respond to all the tasks needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53543	Used one minute of MEP time. Before I give my word to the Minister of Justice, Snezani Malovic, allow me, before we continue our work, to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf, a group of students and professors of High School in the Great Plana, who are following a part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly. The students present are Marko Milanović, Nemanja Bogdanović, Stefan Petrovic, Aleksandra Glasić, Sandra Dragutinović, Angela Obradović, Alisa Durmic, Stefan Jovanovic, Valentina Stojković, Andrijana Ristović, Marko Tanasijević, Dusan Nikolic, Maja Spasic, Jovana Jokovic, Tanja Todorović, Nikola Kukić, Emilia Paunović, Marina Lazarevic, Milena Milovanovic, Milan Donić, Nikola Petrović, Milica Petrović, Milica Radovanovic, Nemanja Momčevović, Danilo Vrbanovic, Smiljana Todorović, Dimitrije Rakovic, Radoslav Vjevinović, Suzana Stojković, Milostović, Miloš Antić, Spasoje Vuković, Nemčić, Ana Mladenović, Ivan Radisavljevljevlović and Milica Tomić, as well as their professors. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Jovan Palalic has the word, and then the Minister of Justice will answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53544	I would like to speak on this amendment, given that the solution now proposed in the new text of the law is a change in relation to the solution we have had in the current Law on Lawyerry. The current, applicable Law on Lawyerry envisioned the possibility of establishing a lawyer's working relationship in legal partner societies. This was not considered to be something that endangers the independence and independence of lawyers in carrying out their legal activity. Since one of the forms of work of a lawyer is intended to be a legal partner, it has legal personality status, compared to the Law on Economic Society, and has the possibility to establish a working relationship with any citizen as such, as well as with a lawyer. I would like to remind you that in Article 47 of the proposed text of the law, it is said that the legal partner society, apart from the conditions laid down by law, is meant by the Law on Economic Society, in point 1), that the lawyership is the only activity of society, so a lawyer who would establish a working relationship in a legal partner society would be engaged exclusively in law enforcement, and that has been the case so far. We don't see any possibility, nor do we see an explanation of why it's now being rejected. I want to say one principled thing. This session adopts the law on public records. We have a new network of courts where a large number of courts have been suspended. In a large number of Serbia's seats, lawyers will be attacked realistically. You can imagine one smaller place, Lebane, Opovo, which has no court and which will have one public notary, where a number of public affairs will be transferred to the public register, where the court is moved to the district centers, the lawyer can really be difficult to survive here, to exist in terms of a lawyer having his own office, to pay the rent, to pay the secretary, to pay all the real expenses. In a situation where a large number of young lawyers graduates from college, passing a judicial exam, a large number of them can hardly go through, to establish a working relationship in court, as a trainee, and tomorrow as an assistant or a judge, one way for a young lawyer to establish a working relationship is to enter a lawyer through this form of work provided for by law. There's no way he can invest his capital in a law partner's company to have the status of a partner. Let's give him a chance to start a working relationship as a lawyer, get some experience, have a good contractual relationship with his buddies, maybe come up with some means to become a partner in a partner society tomorrow. Why do you rule out the possibility that a large number of young people, who want to deal with law enforcement realistically in the whole situation created by judicial reform and the Law on Public Records, will not be able to exist or maintain their offices? Why are you preventing this possibility, especially since we've had such a solution so far? I'd like to hear from you now why this solution is abolished, what is the practice that has shown badly that lawyers have started working relationships and worked as lawyers so far, and that this is now a bad solution and that it prevents its independence, especially when it is said that legal partner society can exclusively deal with lawyering and legal activity? It's simple, I'd like to get that explanation. The lawyer will be attacked in a large number of cities, the question is how lawyers will survive even after the judicial reform you've made by abolishing courts and introducing public records. Realistically, the lawyer will move to big cities and we will get the same problem we have in Serbia again, which is that a large number of young people will move out to cities and try to make their dream come true, to be a lawyer or to do this honorable and important work. In that sense, I call upon you to accept this amendment, because such a solution has so far been, since 1998, when the current law is in force, and no serious objection has been seen so far, and no explanation has been given why you are now abolishing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53545	Four minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53546	I thank you for your discussion. I'll try to explain to you what the Ministry of Justice or the task force's intensities were. As regards the objections concerning the inability of lawyers to be chairman of the board of directors, the logic was that once the chairman of the board of directors had an obligation and representation and that this would then be contradictory with the affairs of lawyers themselves, but I agree that perhaps you should consider making certain amendments to the amendment, if legally technically possible, and that they could be presidents of non-profit organisations' boards. This law has really done the law, and you don't have to believe my word, it's enough to get into the Serbian Bar site, where, apart from the Justice Department, a working version of the law was presented, so it can be seen that in some of the original work versions, such a solution was proposed by the lawyer himself. I express my satisfaction with the way we conduct the debate in this distinguished home on this bill. She's in some domains and at a professional level, and I'll try to keep it that way. Finally, in the final word, I will give my opinion, but I hope you will not understand that in the sense that I am criticising the bill that this government and the Justice Ministry have proposed. It's simply democracy that you respect the will of the majority, so as well as I as a legislator of this law, I have respected what the task force has proposed or at least most in the working group. As far as employment is concerned, that makes sense to me. I honestly say that it is logical for me to allow it, but what has given me as a proposing a working group as an explanation, it is that even though there has been such a possibility in the law so far, there has been no such case. I simply did not doubt what was said by representatives of the Serbian Bar Association. Mr. Krasic, if you're trying to get me not to listen to law school, you're just not gonna make it. As long as I have an obligation to be a minister of justice, I'll listen to the law, and I'll listen to you as representatives of that lawyerry, so we'll definitely think about this in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53547	This would end the morning part of the session. Before I set a break, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the MPs that we will be working today after 1800 hours. So far, I can't say exactly how many classes tonight, but no more than 9:00. We'll see how the afternoon debate runs. Time also continues because we did not get the conditions to start at 10:00 p.m. and so that during the day of the debate, we can shape one of the wholes that we have in front of us for work. So, I'm setting a break. The work continues at 15.00 hours. The first amendment to be made in the afternoon is the amendment to Article 21, which was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop Lazic. [[After break – 15:00]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session in the afternoon search in detail. The 21st amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53549	You see, in relation to the draft law in Article 22(1), I propose – the lawyer can only be replaced by a legal intern who has at least one year of legal internship or directly by another lawyer. The bill says that only a lawyer can replace only a lawyer employed in his office, or another lawyer directly, or through his legal intern. I have to say, this is very risky. Why? The party when it comes to the lawyer's office, it comes to a lawyer. It gives the lawyer power of attorney. She doesn't know a lawyer's intern, she doesn't know a deputy lawyer, and she doesn't know a deputy deputy lawyer. Mr. Cosic, since this is a very serious position, I've been a lawyer for about 30 years and I know that the one from Užica reports to Belgrade or Pančevo, and he says – please, colleague, replace me today, I have a search, that is, a debate in the basic court here and here. I'm telling him, okay, I'll take your place. But I'm busy, so send some interns. There's an intern coming to court and reporting to the courthouse. He has no idea what's going on and what's going on. He still doesn't know how to write files. He still doesn't know how to carry a purse and get into court. He didn't read a word about the lawsuit, in response to the lawsuit. He hasn't read any submissions, and he has no idea what means of proof the court will now be discussing. Will that lawyer, that deputy deputy, delay the hearing and slow down the efficiency of the court? I suggest you, Mr. Cossic, consider this amendment. From my long-standing practice, I've had such cases that the citizens suffer damages because a lawyer sends his intern or intern, or a deputy lawyer, his intern. Please, this is going to hurt the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53550	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53551	Madam Vice President, Mr. Cosic, the proposed amendment has a consistent value in the law. I'll tell you what practice is. If this is how this member is adopted, the citizens are directly in harm's way. It is illegal and contrary to the provision of the European Convention on Human Rights and Other Freedoms, as it allows for the security of a better quality defender in complex criminal cases. No lawyer will accept the defence, especially in front of a senior or appeals or cassation court, and that the justice minister, as it has been so far, has prescribed a 50% bill of attorney from the bar. This is about discrimination. On the other hand, if it is a matter of official defence, in that case it is necessary to respect the legal tariff, because it is also determined by the chamber, which gives consent, as well as by the Government. So far, it's been such a practice not to give up the possibility of beating up debts. The state owes the lawyer, and the lawyer owes the state a tax. Why couldn't a debt beating be done? Think that way. The tariff prescribed by the minister as a sublegal act must be in line with the legal tariff, because it goes to the harm of the lawyer and also goes to the harm of the citizens, because they will not be able to provide quality defence. No strong lawyer, an expert who is 15, 20 or 30 years old, will accept defence under official duty before a senior appeal or cassation court, if his tariff is reduced and determined only by 50%. The government's millions of dollars also owe the Ministry of Justice to defense attorneys on official duty. Find a solution. I believe you can remove this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53552	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Milica Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53553	We have submitted an amendment to Article 23, because we believe it is not justified that the level of the lawyer's fee is determined depending on whether the court is engaged under official duty or is voluntarily engaged by a client. We think it would be much more justified that the law states that lawyers have the right to reward and compensation for the costs of their work, in accordance with the tariff laid down by the Serbian Bar of Lawyers. Such a solution as we now have in the bill of law, if it remained, would reflect the very quality of defense that the lawyer provides. It would mean that a lawyer who provides a defense to a client in his official capacity, who was hired by the court, had the right to have a different approach to the client, only because he knows that he is not in such a position and that he is in a poor state of property, that his property card does not allow him to pay for it. Then he won't be hired, or motivated as much as he would be, to know that the client will pay him out of his own resources. We believe it is not justified to prescribe two different tariffs, one determined by the Serbian Bar Association, and the other by the Ministry of Justice, especially because we believe that hiring lawyers and the quality of defence should not suffer, it should always be maximum. In order to be maximum, then there should be one tariff, or one fee and one height, the same amount of fee, whether the lawyer is engaged by the court or by the party. Here, it should also be added that lawyers under the official duty of the court are much less motivated to work because of this problem that MP Jojic spoke of, because the Ministry of Justice means, it is a visible problem that does not exist from now on, but it exists from who knows what time from the past, does not pay fees in time and does not pay fees to lawyers for their engagement.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53554	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the explanation of the amendment to Article 22, which was submitted by my esteemed colleague Petar Jojic, you have seen that the party's protection is being taken care of. In the morning section, it could be heard that some believe that lawyers should be favored, and some believe that the parties should be favored. We believe that this law should best be governed by all those entities that are bound and obliged to comply with the rules of this law. It even seemed to me that it was starting to burn up how and how lawyers needed to perfect themselves. Article 17, which regulates this issue in one general way, says - a lawyer is obliged to perfect himself. If the Bar Association takes it the same way, then there's nothing about the training. In every profession, it's simply an obligation for people to perfect themselves, and it seems to me in this attorney's office that I would say even more for the reason that everyone wants to achieve in this professional career, and that's perfectly fine. But it seems to me, Mr. Cossic, you could pass on to the minister that this department or the surveillance sector might have a little bit more impact on some control in connection with the relationship between the lawyers and the judges. It would be important to contain and prevent it because simply the parties can identify who are good and quality lawyers, but often in life those who can buy freedom and anything else are forced to buy for money. That surveillance unit could make a little more of a move. As for Article 23, we have also proposed that the fee and fee bill, otherwise, Article 23 of this bill regulates the rewards and fees for the work of a lawyer and we have suggested that the fee and fees of a lawyer be not a credible correction in the executive procedure, but that it has the power of an executive id, in order not to be in a position to enter often and in a litigation process, and it may take several years, as is common in these civil litigation cases, where proceedings take ten years. We can come to the same position here. We don't want to protect this way unwitting lawyers, but we want to protect those who can very often go into litigation to collect their fee, and it seems to me that this applies most when representing legal persons, rather than physical ones. Physical persons, I think, because of their obligation and by definition, because of what they appear before the court and settle their obligations. I think this would be a good thing if we didn't go into some long-standing litigation, so it would be a good idea to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53556	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53557	Mr. Cosic, it doesn't matter if the ID is only credible, but whether it is executive and whether it has all the attributes it needs and the capacity to be executed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53558	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53559	I understand the amendment's intention, however, that our legal system is not really so arranged that it can be an executive correction of the amount of compensation and compensation for the work of a lawyer, but it can, of course, be executed with the court's approval within a single period of time, unless there are no objections and regular proceedings, can be executed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53560	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted the 25th amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The word is "Veriza Radeta".
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53561	Ladies and gentlemen, it is an interesting phenomenon that the representatives of the government, I do not now think of Mrs Malovic, especially not only her, are not excited at all about the fact that on a bill such a large number of amendments are received. These amendments, of course, explain themselves in an argument and it is amazing not to imagine a representative of the government, not to say – let's see, perhaps the concept of something really isn't good in this law. As for the SRS, of course, there is also a conceptal difference with the government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the whole law. Article 26, i.e. erasing it, is one of the proof that we are conceptually different from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and as far as we are concerned, is that this is the case. This Article 26. refers to the restriction of the rights of foreign nationals' lawyers. It is interesting that the government, in its explanation, says that the amendment cannot be accepted, since one of the reasons for the adoption of a new law on lawyerry is to regulate the exercise of law in the Republic of Serbia and by lawyers from foreign citizens, in line with the requirements of the member states of the World Trade Organisation, as well as its regulations, and in order to join the Republic of Serbia. Believe me, it's harder to listen and read, whatever you're going to do is because it's wanted by a world organisation, a European organisation, the EU. Let us at least once here discuss the law that the government is proposing because it is estimated to be in the interest of the Serbian state, in the interest of Serbian citizens. You know, Mrs. Malovic, as far as the contracts and agreements of international and mostly from your ministry's portfolio on legal aid are concluded in any way, whether it is extradition, whether it is organised crime, whether war crimes are involved. What did Serbia get out of it? She didn't get anything. Only to the other Contracting Party did you actually give the legitimacy to persecute the Serbs. What did we get from this agreement with Croatia? We got that they laughed in your face, all the people of Serbia laughed in your face because of your arrest warrants, let's say, for Purda, Jurisic. They don't care what Serbia is looking for on its warrants. But that's why you care so much about what they're looking for. That is why you are jumping to please the Ustasha regime in Croatia and to arrest Bozidar Vukurević and are still preparing to hand him over. Can you imagine that someone who was the president of the municipality could have been responsible for the bombing of Dubrovnik or any other city? That's just impossible. Then you say - you can extradite him because he is not a Serbian citizen. Does it matter? Are you keeping an eye on him? Do you know that you should take care of every Serb, no matter where he lives or whose citizenship he has? We are trying to you and through this law, and not just you, every government official, through all the bill proposals and through the debates to draw attention to the state of Serbia and national interests. Since you seem to keep refusing, we will try to tell the citizens of Serbia, the public of Serbia, and today we are talking about it, we will talk about it at the protest rally tomorrow at 6:00 p.m., which we have scheduled just for the shameful arrest of Bozidar Vucurevic and your intention to extradite him to the Ustasha state regime. So, Mrs. Malovic, tell the other colleagues in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, remember, you are the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53562	Two minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Laszlo Varga has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53563	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to bring together the time and the authorised representative and the parliamentary group and the time per amendment to talk about all the amendments to the laws under consideration. I'd leave first of all with the law on law of law. We have submitted five amendments to the Law on Lawyerry, four of which relate to the official use of minority languages and one amendment concerns another issue. Of those related to the official use of language, three refer to the lawyer's tables and one to the stamp. The essence of these amendments regarding the official use of the language is that the amendments propose that on one side tables of the law offices, joint law offices, they be printed, or inscriptions on boards, in a way that, in addition to the name in Serbian language, they contain a name in the languages of national minorities, of course, in those local self-governments where the language of national minorities is in official use. That applies to the seal, so it's the same proposal. The government has not accepted these amendments with an explanation that the attorney is not a public service. At this point, and in some earlier times, there were practically two schools of opinion on this subject. One school says that lawyerry is really just a private profession and that it has nothing to do with public services and services, and another school claimed exactly the opposite. In the amendment, or in the explanation of the amendment, we have just pointed to this dual nature of the legal profession and tried or tried to convince the Government that in some segments lawyers and how they have public powers, and here we have cited some examples, concrete examples of practice or some authority that no one else in the state or society can perform, just a lawyer. This is practically a public authority in our conviction. On the other hand, there is one decision by the European Court of Justice, the 1974 EU court, which says that legal action is not an exercise of public authority, since this activity primarily refers to representation, to giving legal advice. So, first of all, but not exclusively. I think it's an argument that should support our argument, but of course the government has the possibility and the right to disagree with this argument of ours, and in the end, of course, in the voting day most likely these amendments will not be accepted. On the other hand, we intended these amendments and to partially edit a colorful practice regarding the legal boards. In fact, if you go to places in Vojvodina, you'll really see one charm, some tables are bilingual, trilingual, some others are not and I think that by accepting these amendments, this issue might be a little bit settled. On the other hand, our last amendment that has not been accepted, which refers to the Law on Lawyerry, is an amendment relating to compulsory insurance. We have proposed, and this is what I was talking about in the principle debate, that by law one way that we have proposed narrows down the space for insurance companies to narrow down their responsibilities to their general or individual acts. I don't know if the task force that was working on the law was doing an analysis or considering some comparative practice of other countries where this mandatory insurance works. Surely, as some countries as far as I know, there are solutions that we have proposed, therefore, that the possibility of insurance companies reducing their liability below one level is excluded. In this case, of course, there is one triangle where there is a client, lawyer and insurance company. Of course, it's the lawyer's interest to pay as little as possible for this insurance. The interest of the insurance company is that for a certain amount of insurance they bear as little risk as possible, and of course the interest of customers would be to have as much security as possible when they address lawyers. We have a feeling that in this case he's outdone his attorney's interest, not his clients. Of course, we have some information that tells us that some principled arrangements have been reached about the future amount of insurance between the chamber and the insurance companies, even the general conditions of insurance have been defined and that the acceptance of this amendment would have reconsidered some agreement, which is most likely true, but on the other hand I think and I repeat that the interests of the clients would be the opposite. So that they have one lawyer who has insurance which, in the case of any of the procedures mentioned in the amendment, therefore, leads the insurance company to a situation that must bear the damage that is causing or which is happening because of that failure of a lawyer. Of course, you have rejected the amendment with one technical explanation that this issue is not the subject of this law, but surely that this law would not be the only law in the legal system that would regulate a question that is not a prejudicial object of this law. Surely this law wouldn't be the only one. As for the other two laws and other amendments, I would now move on to public records, and the link between the law on law enforcement and the law on public records, as well as the law on enforcement and security, is that we have submitted factually identical amendments to these three laws. So, as far as the notaries are concerned, we have submitted to that law an amendment regarding the table, and regarding the seal of public notebooks, and it is our pleasure that the Government has accepted these amendments. Therefore, the tables of public notebooks and stamps of public notebooks will be multilingual. I think it's a good step because it promotes practically official use of minority languages. The same applies to the law on enforcement and security. In this law, we have submitted practically identical amendments and the government has accepted them. We have also submitted a second or third amendment to both laws, which refers to the proportionate representation of minorities in selecting public notebooks and executioners. The Constitution provides for a positive discrimination against national minorities in Article 77, and we have practically proposed in this respect a correction and a law on public records and enforcement and security laws, and the Government has adopted these amendments as well. These amendments are essentially identical to those which are incorporated into the laws on judges and public prosecutors and I think it is also a good example, and also the way in which this work concerning national minorities and nationalities concerns the process of electing judges and public prosecutors, that this principle is indeed in practice and respected and, of course, we hope, in view of earlier practice, that these principles will also be respected in the selection of public notebooks and executioners. In the end, I would talk about the last amendment that also belongs to this Corps, so use of minority languages, which refers to public-book documents. The government did not support our amendment in its original form because of a technical error, in practice, when writing that amendment, which applies to Article 18 of the Public Note Act, we left out the numbering of positions in Article 18. The bill and, of course, we've corrected it with one correction in the meantime. In the meantime, the Committee on Justice and Administration supported this amendment, which we hope will ultimately result in the government's support for this amendment. Otherwise, to expand a little bit, to return to some earlier years, since 2007, since SVM is again a parliamentary party, there have been countless occasions when we persuaded the government and individual ministries that some solutions are not good and that some solutions should be accepted. In some cases we've succeeded, in some we've partially succeeded, in some we haven't. We have indeed appealed to the government to show openness to our arguments, since we think the arguments are on our side this time. It's about the language of public-booking documents. According to the original proposal, these documents would be drawn up in parallel, so at the same time in both languages, in Serbian and minority languages in national mixed environments. We believe that this solution, on the one hand, is not good, and on the other hand, that this would mean a reduction in the rights acquired. Namely, Articles 20. The constitution found that the reduction of the level of human and minority rights achieved was prohibited. If our amendment was not accepted, we would be in a position to reduce minority rights. At this point, all those contracts, i.e. all those agreements, which will be after the application of the law on public notebooks, will be subject to the mandatory public-book record, so those listed in that part of the law, all these agreements, at this time, can be concluded exclusively in the language of national minorities, along with the judicial authority. So there's no need at this point for any translation. We think if this practice changed, of course by law, it would mean one step backwards. Of course, we know that some will start or ask the question of constitutionality. We are convinced that this proposal is in accordance with the Constitution, because the current Constitution is not defined between parallel and equal use of minority languages. It's just that they don't regulate that question. The earlier constitution envisioned the simultaneous use of minority languages, and so it was. That meant it was practically a translation obligation. In this case, therefore, since the Constitution does not speak of it, it is up to the legislator to resolve the issue. Our proposal is precisely that of the legislator, i.e. We also take advantage of this possibility to adopt a solution that goes in the direction of stimulating, or promoting the use of minority languages, and not in the direction of destimulation. I wanted so much in all about these 12 amendments to say. In the end, I would like to appeal once again to the Government, or to the Minister to respect our arguments. In the end, I'd just like to say one sentence about what I was talking about last week, about the appearance of theft. At this point, three or four villages have already formed civilian guards and I think it should be another warning signal that we are not waiting for the end of the year with amendments to the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53564	13 minutes and 30 seconds of the authorized representative's time have been used. The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53565	Most of the amendments submitted by your parliamentary group have been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Justice and in this way we express your position and truly respect the principles and rights of national minorities. We do so not only, as you have pointed out in your own discussion, in the formation of legal provisions but also in their application. Since you have spoken of amendments to all the laws that are on the agenda, both this time and when this particular amendment comes and when we discuss it, say what and now. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Justice, I accept the amended amendment to Article 18(1) of the Law on Public Registration. We would immediately accept it as government, it simply wasn't legally technically possible. Through this correction, we'll be able to accept. As for your discussion on how a contract with an insurance company should look, I believe it should contain it, and we simply thought it should not be prescribed by law, but by contract itself. I can assure you that as far as the Department of Justice is concerned, no talks are conducted on the level of the tariff or the appearance of the contract. We will follow, of course, in the domain of our powers in which it will be regulated. As for the boards for lawyers, I think it's a really normal situation and it should be there in the national environments that there's a sign of lawyers on the boards in the language of the national minority. We did not put that into law for the simple reason that the lawyer is not a public service and that public authority is not passed on, although I agree with you that in some theoretical sense it can be considered that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53566	National MP Laslo Varga is asking for a word and will have it, only that the stenogram is working to inform the government's representative, Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, that when we open a search in detail, that it will be necessary to repeat the government's position on the acceptance of amendments submitted by a group of MPs, including MP Laslo Varga, who has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53567	Really short, part of a replica, part of a word of gratitude for openness and support for this amendment of ours. I think this really represents one big step in promoting the use of minority languages in official procedures, which is extremely good. Of course, for years it is also expected to pass a new law on official use of language and letter. One day, we hope, that law will arrive on the agenda. Since this area is a rather chaotic arrangement and there are a lot of discrepancies between the various laws, I'm pretty sure it won't happen during this government. As far as insurance is concerned, I did not claim that the government was in charge or the Ministry, I have information that the legal chambers were in charge of these negotiations and I have even received one draft or a proposal for general terms of one of the potential insurance companies. If you read these general terms, you'll see that the level of responsibility of insurance companies decreases below the real level, below the level that would give some meaning to this institution. If this decreases to some level and it does not apply even to the most basic failures of a lawyer, then the sense of compulsory insurance is lost. So I'm saying that some countries that have introduced this much earlier have resorted to this way of regulation simply banning insurance companies from reducing their responsibilities below a certain level. This in practice led to a situation where this responsibility or that insurance was virtually worthless. In that sense, I know it would be difficult for you or the government to convince, but I am convinced that practice will show that we were right this time too.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53568	The time of the authorised representative has been used and minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we have submitted an amendment in front of the NS parliamentary group, where we are asking in Article 29, paragraph 4, that the word "have" be changed in the word "no". In fact, we would ask you to look at a member in one form or another to understand the importance of this amendment. Because the meaning and importance of the joint attorney's office of an associate law society is lost unless this amendment is accepted, as well as the amendment - the responsibilities of the members of the joint attorney's office, which will later be spoken of - by way of a degree in the joint attorney's office, that is, each of its members has certain benefits. But these benefits must not in any way be at the expense of an individual’s lawyer. It is indisputable that lawyers are not allowed to advertise, so if the joint attorney's office and the partner law firm are in any way advertised, they recommend a larger number of lawyers, then because of the equal relationship between the lawyers from the joint attorney's office and the associate legal society with lawyers who are not in any form of association, the members of the joint office or the company should be denied the right to use, in addition to the stamps set out in Article 29(2) and (3), the seal referred to in Article 1 of this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53570	Anyone else want a word? (No) Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53571	Article 30 defines the cancellation of representation, where in the first position of the bill states that the lawyer has the right to cancel representation (authority) and in the second position that he is obliged to notify the authority which is conducting the procedure immediately. We felt that it was necessary for Article 30, by adding the new chapter 2-4, to lay down the reasons why representation could be cancelled. I would like to reiterate my claim that this is a law that should regulate the work of the Bar Association, lawyers within the bar, but that the Bar Association and lawyers exist because of citizens, parties and that the rights of the parties and this member of the law are not sufficiently regulated at all. In a rejection of the amendments, where we specify the reasons, the government says the issue has already been proposed by the amendments to the laws governing judicial proceedings. We don't think that they're sufficiently regulated by other laws, so we're asking that it's necessary for a lawyer to cancel power of attorney, because it's really logical to let him do it. But that he can do it at any time, for no reason, forgetting that a lawyer, as well as a doctor, provides assistance to a client in times that are very often the hardest moments of life for a client to whom the service is provided, cannot be allowed. So you can't afford to be completely free and without a reasonable reason to cancel the party's power of attorney at all times. Otherwise, I really wonder how trust can be achieved as a prerequisite for legal aid? I think it is necessary because, especially in criminal proceedings, it decides on fundamental human rights and good, so the risk of the party being threatened by the cancellation of power of attorney is that it suffers damage increased by the very lack of reason for the cancellation of power of attorney. The amendment was to be adopted because we cited the reasons why a lawyer was obliged to cancel the power of attorney when he learned of the facts he was obliged to cancel legal aid as you regulate it in Article 19. Proposal. So, the moment the lawyer finds out that under the law he was not allowed to represent or provide legal assistance to the party, he is required to cancel the power of attorney. In this way, we believe that it allows for a consistent respect for the rules on the prevention of conflicts of interest, as well as for the protection of the interests of the parties. I ask you not to consider this a prenuptial, prescribing or excessive provision, because it should be shown that this is a comprehensive legislative project which is primarily in the interests of parties and citizens. This does not mean that it is necessary to favour the rights of the parties, but rather we are seeking to achieve this real measure – the achievement of the interests of all participants in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53572	A minute and 40 seconds of MP time has been used. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53573	I believe the bill adequately regulates this area. What is stated in the draft law in terms of cancellation of representation, given the current Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers, is absolutely sufficient, because everything else regulates the Code itself, which says that a lawyer must not, for unwarranted reasons, cancel representation, before the procedure is completed even before, if it has a basis, the regular and extraordinary legal remedies are exhausted. Then, justified reasons for the cancellation of representation are considered the same reasons why the lawyer could refuse representation, except for the overload he himself caused by receiving new cases. It is further said that the lawyer is obliged to cancel representation for the same reasons that he had an obligation not to accept representation, and if these reasons were or had to be known to him at the time when the representation was accepted, he is responsible for the consequences suffered by the client because of his representation and during the period of his representation. The lawyer must not cancel representation at an inappropriate time, unless there are reasons to force him to do so. In the event of cancellation of representation, the lawyer is under obligation until the client provides another representative or until no more than 30 days have expired, unless the client in no doubt freed him from such an obligation, to take all those measures without which the client would suffer damage. In criminal cases, I note that it is also regulated, the lawyer must not cancel the defence and when there are reasonable reasons for it, if the position of his client is worsened, and even if there is only reasonable doubt that the dismissal in court or in the public could be interpreted as an expression of mistrust in the defendant and disagreement with the way of his defence, unless the client requests the dismissal of representation, publicly disproves the work of a lawyer, persistently refuses to co-operate with him, and asks him to violate the positive regulations and codes or when he already has another defender. And when he cancels his defense, a lawyer should try not to do it in a way and at a time that would expose the client to a conviction of the public or a worse position in the process. So if by amendment we want to regulate that area more in detail than in the bill, then I think everything in the Code of Professional Ethics has to be entered. My point is that the law should contain this regulation measure, and everything else should be regulated by this act that I have read to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53574	Three minutes of MP time was used. The right to replica has a national MP, Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53575	Again, we have a situation that, at the request of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, in order to protect the interests of the parties, we ask that part of what is written in the Code finds places and in the law, because practice shows us that failure to respect the codes at the expense of parties and the conduct of disciplinary proceedings in front of chambers does not produce results, you reiterate that there is a code and that it is regulated. There is nothing left for me but to repeat - in one of the procedures that the Minister has also known, we have eight parties damaged, it has been reported that none of the rules of the Code have been respected, the procedure being completed by a fine of 100,000 dinars. So it's not enough that there's 90% of security lawyers, it's not enough that there's 99% of those who respect the code. In order to protect the interests of one life, because of one ruined fate, we must not in law leave space, because we are afraid to spend a pillar of more paper or that we will have one provision of a member of the law more. Generally, I will no longer distinguish between law and code. I believe that practice shows that it is not enough and that the reason why we ask that foreigners cannot be given up power of attorney, except by the law of prescribed cases, is precisely what I have stated: practice and life. Mr. Mikovic, we can talk about GDP growth or absolute amounts of GDP or stable inflation or that statistics show that we live well, but each citizen has his own statistics, his wallet, his empty or full plate, his relationship to justice and his relationship to an institutionalally regulated state. Let's help make this statistics as fair as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53576	National MP Srdjan Mikovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53577	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not involved in what is not my area. The issue of economics, finance, etc., I'm not getting involved in that. In any case, I believe that if there is something regulated in the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers, then it is very difficult to extract only part of something and insert it incompletely into the bill. If we're already arguing and we're saying that the code doesn't mean anything, and I think it means a lot, then we should rewrite all these provisions into law. However, I think that would be a little out of line. The other thing, with regard to the handling of any lawyer anywhere in Serbia, does not mean that there is amnesty of responsibility, I mean a partial responsibility, whether there is compensation for damages, or even a criminal liability, unless someone is acting in accordance with legal regulations. In addition, actions against the Code of Procedure also challenge the launch of disciplinary proceedings in front of competent chambers within the framework of a legal organisation. Anyway, I think the level of regulation in the bill is absolutely fine. I agree with your position that one part of this should be regulated. I consider not just one piece, but everything needs to be regulated, which is regulated in the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53578	Ambassador Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53579	As soon as possible. No, he doesn't have to do everything. A man can live without one kidney, he can only live with one kidney, but without a heart, he can't live. That is exactly how it is necessary to distinguish the parts of the Code that must be introduced into the law and that there is a direct responsibility for them, and I think that cancelling the power of attorney in the kinds of procedures that I have stated may mean cancelling medical care and supervision for individual clients in the legal matter. I will no longer answer for this occasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53580	The word has an MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53581	I wouldn't want it to be an atmosphere here if this law was in the interest of law enforcement, and against the interests of clients, etc. I think they're perfectly balanced both interests. If it is a very clear provision that within 30 days of the termination of the power of attorney, he is obliged to continue to provide legal assistance, this also applies to criminal proceedings, to dramatic situations, to detention cases, to representation in litigation proceedings, in administrative proceedings, out-of-party proceedings and all possible proceedings. There's one more thing we need to know, what things look like in practice. Of course we have to do everything we can to protect our clients and of course we have to do everything we can to protect our lawyers. Today, if you do research within Serbia's Bar Association and you ask lawyers how things are, they'll all say there's work to be done and there's no money. There are many examples that clients have not fulfilled their obligations to lawyers, and since it is a free choice by the clients who will represent them, it is usually achieved and agreed, then with free will this deal that is negotiated and terminated, but with this provision that a lawyer is required for 30 days to provide full legal assistance, and it covers everything we have talked about in advance, I think that the interests of clients are fully protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53582	A minute and 30 seconds of MP time has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53583	Article 33. The bill, which is before us, regulates the responsibility of a lawyer. Article 33 states that a lawyer cannot be called to criminal or criminal liability for a legal opinion expressed in the legal aid procedure before a court or other body. The question is raised, Madam Minister, what is it that a lawyer will rightly and adequately prevent it from causing damage to the client, or even possibly by intention, if it is not a criminal or some other responsibility and if, for the damage that the client may have for it, it is not responsible in any other procedure for the damage caused by the general conditions for compensation. In response to why the amendment is not accepted, you say the Government does not accept the amendment for the reason in Article 33. The bill provides immunity from the criminal and criminal liability of a lawyer only for legal opinion. When you go to a lawyer, it is true, you seek legal advice or legal advice, but the question is raised, Madam Minister – what is the consequence of giving this legal advice? Can that legal opinion cause any adverse consequences for the client? By not referring to the responsibility of a lawyer, who, by giving such legal opinion or such legal advice, caused certain damage to the client who addressed him with the best intention, and also by introducing some other institutes that were heard in the afternoon debate by the representatives of the SRS, especially Peter Jojic, Zoran Krasic, etc., among other things, by introducing foreign lawyers without the principle of reciprocity, as well as by disrespecting some kind of responsibility of the lawyer for the damage caused, you can come into a situation where you can do something that can be shown tomorrow and what may look like tomorrow, as it is said, "until one of the litigator cows tends to the horn, another for the tail, the lawyer is a muse. "I hope it wasn't the intensity of the promoter, that you want to balance here a relationship in which both sides will be protected in some way, on the condition that I say, so both lawyers and those who address them for legal aid or legal advice. So I don't think your argument about not accepting the amendment stands. I'd like to look back at something from the afternoon debate at the end. It was nice when representatives of the ruling majority applauded on the situation where, according to our positive legislation, the defendant could agree with the prosecutor to plead guilty and to pay a certain amount of money for that guilt. You know the SRS was against it. In the end, it was nice to hear that applause from the ruling coalition, but just to remind you, you brought that proposal and that regulation here to the Assembly. That's what the majority's representatives voted for. We weren't up for that now, either. We're even, let's say, more radical and for many other things. If you remember, I will only remind you, Madam Minister, when you have proposed your time-limiting law on the confiscation of property acquired by crime, you have suggested that part of the property that the perpetrator has acquired may be left to him if his or her family's interests so require. But know that was not a good solution either. We are opposed to such situations, and we are opposed to what you predicted in this article of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53584	Three minutes and 40 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 35th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53585	Madam Chairman, article 35 refers to the deprivement of attorneys and the search of the attorney's office. In the second position of this member, the search of the lawyer's office may only be determined by the competent court in respect of a particular case file or document. The DSS shall submit an amendment which shall read – a search of the legal offices, lawyers and review or confiscation of the case in its possession (computers and other holders of electronic data, files, documents and other documents) may only designate the competent court with regard to a specific case, file or document. So, specify, explain, explain, explain that there are even holders of electronic documents, there is also a law, that we live in the 21st century, that data can be found on a laptop, which can be found in the trunk, on an external hard drive that can be in a drawer, on a flash drive, on a whole office, practically its business can be located. On DVD, colleague Krasic, you're right. It is said in the government's explanation – the government does not accept the amendment since the solution from the bill is more precise. We have explained, cited what potential abuses may exist, and the government is returning to the proposed text of the law, it says – more specifically. What does a file, an object and a document mean if this really isn't worked out this way? The Minister is out of town right now. Please explain to her, you're a young man, you know how it all works, so explain it to her, and I'm sure she'll accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53586	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53587	It's almost identical to the amendment, except we weren't asking for a change in attitude 2 but adding a new attitude 5. But I also agree with this opinion of the Government to tell you honestly. Yet I think this is the substance of the Code of Criminal Procedure, where it should be specified when searching the apartment and when looking for some files and objects, so if it is in electronic form, to prescribe some form. We've turned our attention, what Petkovic said, it's really a fact, on a simple bottle you can wear three law offices, not one. Now, it's a good title above this article, which is to deprive lawyers of their freedom and search of the apartment, etc., without the intention of drawing any conclusion that would generally involve all the lawyers. That's not the point, because there are lawyers who barely patch up the ending and it's famous, but there are, Mrs. Comic, and those garaganes that are advertised. You can write as much as you want in the law not to advertise, but when Bosko Ristic is said to be, it is known immediately, a member of two judicial authorities, a lawyer's office, the chairman of the Justice Committee, it is itchy for you, Mrs Comic, so it is, and if you want to solve the case, you know where to turn. If President Tadic has a court dispute and is represented by Homen's Attorney's Office, then he knows who is cheerful and dresses in the Justice Ministry, State Secretary Homen, but we cannot resolve this problem by law. That's the problem. That's not a rule of law. This law is really insane. This law as you've written it, it is an insult to the law's profession, and it is quite challenging to international standards and what international attorney organisations prescribe as their standard and what is being applied. You just heard Mr. Mikovic. He reads all this stuff, it's from the '99s, that dark year. Then the professional code of attorney was re-innovated, etc. It was simply a condition for our lawyers to be members of international associations of lawyers, and what's for the code, it's for the code. He's not here - throw his hand at half past six, so now we're going to put half the code into the law. If that's what you're thinking, please, then the question is, why are we passing this law if you don't know what should be contained in this law? By the way, let me tell you in person, I think we need to strengthen the provisions on so-called. the pre-crisis procedure and provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure which allow the recording, monitoring, etc. And the lawyer, again with no intention of putting it generally on the line for all the lawyers, and please, we have a little bit of a situation, the lawyers helped, Mrs. Malovic, Saric, you remember, so they were chairman of the board of directors, etc. You know that there are several law offices in Nis that have completed the process of denationalisation, a restitution completed through lawyers, a judicial, all done, a norm respected, as you say respected, an actor with a sister regained property, and Cvetkovic can be furious about losing his property. Got your legal framework and you see for yourself, there are many misunderstandings here. Now he wants to monopolise himself inside the lawyer's office. The chosen pass. The judiciary and the prosecution are finished with the chosen ones. At the Ministry of Justice we also have selected two very important bodies to appoint the chosen ones. You can protest, this Djuraskovic wrote to me, the poor guy, says he wrote to you, too, Mrs Malovic, Dusan Djurisic, I'll let you complete the paperwork, that he tells you here what he wrote about some lawyers what they were doing. We have a few more items here. Let's do a little test, ma'am, that you signed to deliver Karadzic, whether there is some lawyer who is able to save 100,000 young Republic of Serbia who work through student, youth and other cooperatives and receive three and a half times the salary of their workmate. What you're not investigating, you're a pro-European, pro-democratic government, who cares about young people staying in Serbia, not to run around the world. You have 100,000 young people working through youth and student cooperatives. Make sure they don't abuse that kind of engagement. Some work for five or six years through a youth cooperative, so two years working on a specific, and in the meantime they go on indefinitely and even become bosses. Come on, you've got 100,000 men. Here, gentlemen of Serbian lawyers, show which one of you is the intellectual force and solve the question of 100,000 young people whose work is being abused. Most of them work in state-owned public enterprises. Shut up and you'll be quiet, I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53588	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53589	I have submitted an amendment to Article 37. A bill where I suggested that this member be deleted as an excess. Such an obligation, as the legislator provides, calls into question the functioning of law enforcement in the Republic of Serbia, as mandatory insurance under the current conditions and circumstances could not be accepted by 5% of lawyers who have a certain job experience and are engaged in law enforcement. How does the EU predict this? Approximately 100,000 euros needs someone who wants to be insured. That's the way it is in the EU. This is neither our country can cover nor pay for such security. The decommissioning of Serbia's lawyership will be conducted on those who can co-operate with these foreign companies and foreign offices, which is contrary directly to the provisions of the proposed law on the equality of lawyers, their independence and their independence, as prescribed by Article 67(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed solution is also excessive because the bonding law does not deprive, as a public service provider in providing public protection, liability for compensation for the damage done if a lawyer does so with his own guilt. It is rare to say and to exclude that someone is deliberately to blame, to do other harm, and therefore, as one public service in the legal system, it is necessary to raise them to a higher level and to get their right place in the legal system. The introduction of this mandatory insurance puts lawyers first and foremost at risk who won't be able to pay for insurance because it's a crisis, because some hardly make ends meet. I repeat, five percent of Serbian lawyers will not be able to pay for insurance. You need to accept this amendment and delete it, and according to tax laws, the Law on Bond Relations lawyers are responsible for the damages.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53590	40 seconds of the authorized representative's time has been used. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53591	I do not agree with distinguished counterpart Petar Jojic because of the fact that this institute was necessary in our lawyerry, there is no difficulty in the position of lawyers, nor will it be the amount to be paid in terms of the amount provided and the amount that will enable the profession to be done because the Bar Association itself will determine the amount of insurance. This institute is good for the protection of clients. Of course, until now there was the responsibility of a lawyer, there was responsibility under the general rules of responsibility for compensation for damages. However, with this principle of liability insurance, a lawyer can also, in his best interest, produce adverse consequences per party and then ask the question of who will be responsible for such a type of damage; of course, it will be answered by a lawyer or a subsidiary insurance organisation that concluded the insurance contract with him. I will remind you that it has been arranged by legal systems, such as some EU countries, Canada, the United States, even lawyers have formed special funds to pay off these types of damages, another step away from this institute that is in the interest of protecting clients.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53592	A minute and 30 seconds of MP time has been used. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53593	A colleague, Chikiriz, spoke out of his own experience and circumstances because he worked in insurance companies for a long time. This would fit if Serbia were America. Serbia is not America. If Serbia were France or Germany by wealth, or France, the Netherlands, Belgium, England, if we had such a degree of economic development, I would agree with Mr. Chicago anyway. However, he winds the water on his waterway. It's not the intention, he's primarily a good lawyer and a lawyer, I've known him for years, but I have to say that the interest of Serbia's lawyer is actually to allow him to perform this honorable duty under normal conditions and circumstances, because this is the last dam of defence and protection of fundamental human rights in the Republic of Serbia. I think we're premature in this, and that's why I suggest that this amendment be adopted in order for lawyers to be saved from the charge because many will leave the bar now. What can the Serbian Bar Association do? If you apply European standards, the Bar of Lawyers will say, "Please, we have to pass such insurance rules where you will have to pay 50 or 100,000 euros, if you can't, we cannot join the EU." I don't care about the EU, of course not the Serbian Radicals, but I advocate that part of the justice system, the legal system, protect itself and prevent these minority people from getting kicked out of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53594	Ambassador Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53595	Thank you, Mr. Jojic, for your kind words. With regard to representing the courts about you, I can only say words of praise, but this is not the interest of insurance companies, nor did I speak through the prism, I spoke through the prism of citizens' interests. If someone directly, deliberately, knowingly causes damage, then they comply with the general rules on compensation for damages and that is clear to everyone. Anyone who has caused other damage is obliged to make up for it. However, what do we do in cases where there is damage due to mistreatment? Who's gonna pay for that? There's no objective guilt against a lawyer, but the damage was caused after all. There are then these funds from insurance organisations, and if there are more unwitting treatment of lawyers, maybe insurance companies will deal with losses in this part of the insurance, and that's a kind of risk, so I wouldn't bring this down to some personal interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53596	It's been used for one minute. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 37th amendment. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53597	The DSS amendment is a contribution to the debate on this problem which is very important and has caused a lot of controversy among lawyers, but this issue regarding insurance should be related to a number of other issues relating to the general vision of the government towards the development of law enforcement in Serbia. Now look at the atmosphere that's being made by this law. On the one hand, it's forbidden that someone who registers as a lawyer can start a working relationship in a law firm. On the other hand, we're introducing public records that a number of jobs, we're just going to talk about, in smaller places, in fact, what the people would say, come out of the hands of lawyers, let's say, the conclusion of a real estate contract. In the conditions of reduced work, we now impose on lawyers the obligation to necessarily conclude this type of liability insurance contract. Our amendment goes exactly in the direction of respecting reality, which is to give lawyers the opportunity to do so. You know, in large-scale law offices here in Belgrade, in Novi Sad, where there's a great deal of work and where the risks caused by the damage are much greater, and lawyers themselves will have an interest in limiting this kind of contract. But in small towns, where lawyers are burdened with paying the rent, paying the phone, the secretary, fighting the market with public notebooks, travelling to the courts that you moved out of your reform, yet this kind of additional problem can burden them with their office's business. I ask you to consider the fact that we're going to get into a situation because of this kind of pressure on the bar, that the lawyers move to big cities, and that the small places are going to run out of lawyers. Then where is the availability of justice? Who's gonna open the law firm? Well, imagine one place that now gets a public notebook, a man has all kinds of jobs that are done in one small place at his disposal. They close real estate contracts, they verify contracts, they get power of attorney. A lawyer who doesn't have a court was his only source of income. Now he won't be able to do it. We will only now have new devastated areas and the inability for citizens to reach a lawyer to exercise their rights. This is one very important thing. By rejecting our amendment, by reason of the standard that exists in most European countries, we have very different interpretations of that kind of standards. Here, now we've had our doubts about employment rights. The EU standard, when we talk about the EU and their standards, is that a lawyer has the right to work in a law firm. When we talk about that standard, we keep that standard quiet. When we talk about this standard, we stand out. Please, there are a lot of contradictions and inconsistencies in this situation. The amendment submitted by the parliamentary minority group is good. I don't know why you didn't accept it. Now that you're saying, since you're taking the company out of the general rules of the Business Society Act, and you're saying -- this is kind of a "lex special," here's how this law is going to set things up that doesn't give lawyers a job in one legal person, which is amazing, because everyone can get a job in one legal person. Then you could also treat the amendment submitted by the parliamentary minority group as some kind of "ex specialise". Let's not let lawyers fall into the claws of insurance houses now. How much will the sums be secured, premiums? It's now something that's a big fog. When the insurance houses see it, what kind of contracts will it be? Because they know if you don't, gentlemen, you can leave the bar. It's going to be a kind of lawyer pressure by the insurance companies, and I'm asking you to take care of that reality. It's easy to write something - it's an EU standard and to sign off on a commitment, without looking at the consequences of real life. They can lead to lawyers staying around in the number of cities where basic courts exist. It will, unfortunately, be the consequence of what we now have with this law and the full reform of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53598	Two minutes and 15 seconds used by the MPs' group. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53599	Mrs. Malovic, I think my colleague Palalic hit the bottom line and just pointed out some problems with this member of the law, if he stays this way and is not accepted by the DSS amendment, he can produce. I believed you that this law was written by a task force composed of lawyers. Did your lawyers give you a maybe projection of how much it would cost individuals? What's the insurance company gonna do? Is that 200 euros a month, is that 200 euros a year? It's really not the same thing if it's paid by a lawyer in Lebanon or Opov, who we just talked about, or a lawyer who has an office of 200 square feet on the Terrace? There's a big difference. Let's make it possible for these little people in the small environments, who have lost their courts in those environments, that they work and that they work and make a decent and honest living for their bread crusts, or that I don't suffer here right now. Do you have any projections of what it's going to look like? Insurance companies, I don't believe, and I don't know that any of them have failed, because they haven't made a good assessment. It's like at the bookies, I don't think they'll lose much of it, they'll provide themselves well and prescribed exact and certain premiums for a secure case, so they don't lose at it. One small-centre lawyer, who we charge with, say, 500 euros a year to pay for this insurance, that's a huge problem for him. This amendment provided that any lawyer can be provided and that the Bar Association concludes a collective insurance contract, thus protecting themselves on the one hand and lawyers and protecting themselves and the parties. I know that none of the lawyers, who do their job seriously, and these are big law offices, are comfortable and often think, or probably every night, lying with that thought in their head, whether one of their associates has done something wrong and whether or not they will have to pay certain fees to the party if they do it harm her. Those who can do it, they can secure it this way. There's collective security, the parties are somehow protected. Now it depends on each of them, depending on their ability and expertise, as well as knowledge of how they will act before the court and whether they will cause harm to their parties. I don't think we'll lose anything if this amendment is accepted. It is indeed a little unnatural and illogical to call in this explanation for the rejection of amendments that this is the standard in most European countries. Not for one member to set one standard, but for other members the laws of another. At this point, we think that this is the best solution, that there is an opportunity to give optionally to lawyers, if they have the opportunity to ensure themselves and their parties, and in some future times, God will give them the opportunity to live much better in this country. But I don't think it's going to be so soon, anyway, not during the duration of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53600	Two minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53601	I think it's a good thing we're finally in our system, if we're talking about the area of law enforcement, we're going to have a mandatory guarantee of procedural responsibility. In today's debate, we heard some drastic examples, suggesting that such an institute should exist. According to what I have been informed of from the Working Group and according to the projection they have made, somewhere the annual insurance premium per lawyer should be around 80 euros. So, on an annual level. I have no doubt about the accuracy of their assessment. I think it's something that's acceptable to every lawyer, unrelated to what area he deals with and how much work he has over the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53602	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 37th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic put together the title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment. The word is from Ambassador Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53603	I'll be very brief. I think this member is another evidence of the law's insanity. We believe that the tax obligations of a lawyer should certainly be established. There are financial and tax regulations in this country that need to regulate it. Believe me, after the argument I've received, I'm gonna have to deal with it and read the other laws, see if there's a provision in each of them that's specifically for a particular profession provided for by this member, or whether it's regulated by the tax laws of this country. We don't think this article belongs in this law, but you probably went with the fact that the extra head doesn't hurt, so it's in one sentence and a member like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53604	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 38. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Zlata Djeric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53605	On behalf of the SNS, one amendment that assures all those who think we only protect the interests of parties and clients. It is our primary interest to protect the citizens of Serbia. Here's the amendment that we're trying to create some kind of protection measure for lawyers, and in the event of a temporary ban on law enforcement, which you refused to explain to us that your solution in the proposal is more specific. The amendment that we have submitted and the explanation that we have given you speaks of in fact that we have arranged this part more precisely than you have, although you claim that it is in your best interests to protect your lawyership. I'm just going to point 3 to explain, where you've made it possible for the Bar Association to impose a temporary ban on a lawyer against whom a criminal case has been committed. You're not making a difference because of the severity of the crime he's been accused of. In addition, you are not at all making a difference between the criminal proceedings initiated and this is not about a convicted lawyer, and you treat Article 42(3) as if it were a convicted man. The practice, especially in recent years, shows that in a large number of cases a suspect, or accused person, has been cleared of the charge. Large amounts of money have been paid to the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget in damages due to unfounded deprivement of freedom, i.e. detention under Article 560. The Code of Criminal Procedure. In such procedures, lawyers were sometimes subject to unfounded freedom. I really think that, given the cost of the budget, you had to take it more seriously, or more specifically, i.e. The way we suggested, arrange this member of the law. Of course, when an indictment has been brought against a lawyer for a serious crime, which can be punished for more than five years, it should really be possible to impose a temporary ban on law enforcement until the proceedings are completed. Then, if the Chamber finds that the act that has been charged makes a lawyer unworthy of law enforcement, but keep in mind that these lawyers are supporting their families by doing this job and that they should also make a difference in the grading of the work, but above all, that you cannot treat the one against whom the trial was initiated with the convicted. Your argument that you are more specific about this provision simply falls into the water. Please reconsider and adopt our amendment submitted to Article 42. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53606	Used a minute and 30 seconds of MP time. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53607	As regards the proposed amendment, in any case, I cannot agree with at least one part of the amendment, which is that a lawyer will be temporarily prohibited from handling a lawyer if convicted of a criminal offence, etc., which is being notified by the competent bar responsible for the enforcement of criminal sanctions by the authority. We know who's in charge of the criminal record. The issue is the moment when the authority responsible for the execution of criminal sanctions is informed of a judicial, executive and judicial verdict. So if someone were to notify, if an amendment like this were to be accepted, it could not be the authority responsible for the execution of criminal sanctions but for the court. But here I have to say that I think the better solution from the bill is because the bill in Article 42(2) says - when a lawyer will be temporarily banned from law enforcement. So, if there is a certain detention and if the procedure for the cancellation of the registration is initiated in the lawyer's register, whether or not it is entered properly. For other cases, a lawyer can be temporarily banned from law enforcement, and then indicated when. I appreciate that the authorities of the Bar will not play with the possibility of a temporary ban on the practice of any individual, but will all-roundly consider the factual situation and each individual case and determine whether or not it is justified or not that the solution to the temporary ban should be decided on the duration of the prohibition and that a temporary deputy should be designated, taking into account the provisions of Article 41 of this proposal. I think the better solution is given in the bill. I think that, too, if we were to define that we were to adopt the proposed amendment, we would come at odds with those authorities that keep criminal records. That's clearly regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53608	Two minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )The National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together submitted to the 45th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the esteemed chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, the New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to amend and read in Article 46(2): "All the obligations of any lawyer from the joint office, created from a legal relationship with parties and third parties, are in full compliance with all the lawyers from the joint office." The explanation of this amendment – proposed text of the law, Article 45 paragraph 5, provides that the joint office does not have legal personality. It's okay. For the obligations of each member of the joint office, all members of the office must be held in full because their obligation arises from the benefit of the community, i.e. if they have a common business space and if, according to third parties, they appear as entities organised in accordance with the law, they must all act in solidarity and respond because they do not have a legal personality and do not have a joint account, regardless. Otherwise, the joint office loses every attribute of community in front of parties and third parties. It appears as a simple collection of a number of lawyers, with the intention to confuse and attract the party, and without any obligation arising from the community. Therefore, all obligations related to the law and to the law, both administrative and fiscal, as well as communal should be borne by everyone in solidarity. So the government has not accepted this amendment. The explanation is that it is not a legal person, but we believe that this amendment of New Serbia should be accepted here, for the simple reason that the most common offices are one huge lobby, one completely unfair competition, where a number of lawyers from all areas are gathered, therefore, from criminal, civil, from economic law. You know how, citizens think that when they go to that office, to some community, that they will practically address one expert team there. It's a little out of individualism, a certain freedom of attorney, because it's known that lawyers work in joint offices, one, two, but they don't have that kind of community. A fundamental question is raised in the case of the court representation, if this is the kind of community – is there also a solidarity of responsibility? It's completely different when you give someone a common authority in another city in order to do a job out of the integrity of the procedure or out of prevention, it's the usual thing. But if there are these types and opportunities, we believe that in these cases, regardless of this intended insurance, there must be a solid responsibility of a lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53610	A minute of authorised representative of the parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the title above Articles 47 and 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Miroslav Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53611	We may be looking at the DSS with too much optimism at the development of law enforcement in Serbia. We're trying to really make it possible, and I believe that that's what the other colleagues really want, that the lawyership be independent, that it develops, that it's not weak and depreciated, that we give the same chance to the domestic law offices, the law firm, as well as foreign law firms. I reminded you in the principle debate that not all regulations have been legally established for foreign offices, that they often go either by shortcuts, or by some way around, and they do certain jobs. We have here, in addition to the law firm, predicted a new institute which I'm sure will live in some future period, it's a law firm, but apparently the government had no understanding of this proposal, so she rejected it. We simply believe that if the law prescribes the possibility of establishing legal partner societies, then it is necessary to specify the conditions under which they are set up and how they work, in order to avoid any ambiguities and the creation of a gray zone and irresponsibility in this area and to set out a much clearer reference to the regulation on companies. That's what we talked about with the previous members of this area. There is no reason not to introduce it at one point, because we believe that the time has already matured, the concept of a law firm that corresponds to its property, but whose members are fully responsible for the work of the company, except in the cases provided for by this law. So we're looking at this company as a sui generis. These two forms, in the way we have proposed this amendment, provide absolute independence of the legal profession, regulate the way in which we act and conflict of interest. We have handled parallel practices, because this is exactly how law firms exist both in the environment and in the EU countries, which you have often called for in the interpretation of certain amendments you have refused.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53612	The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal to the 47th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53613	We have submitted an amendment to Article 47. There's a similarity to an amendment to article 44 that I didn't deliberately take to defend, because in the rejection of the amendment, you led us to believe that the idea that we had, to settle this law in an unsettled area, was simply not your intention. That doesn't mean that we don't have the right and the desire to fix this area right now and that, for example, we allow the employment of a lawyer in a law firm, and that's why we submitted an amendment to predict it and we told you in an explanation of why it is necessary. It is not true what it says in the explanation that it is contrary to the independence and independence of the lawyer, because then it turns out that where there are limited-responsibility societies in the lawyerry there is no independence of the lawyerry, which is not a meaningful explanation. You have determined by the proposal that only lawyers of members of a company can provide legal assistance on behalf of society, which means that they cannot hire other lawyers who are not members of society. With this amendment, we propose adding words – which allow legal assistance in the partner-legislative society to be provided by lawyers working in that society. We are adding a position specifically prohibiting the establishment of other companies by law-orthagic society, to prevent lawyers from carrying out other activities through the intermediation of this society. In the other part of the argument, we cite everything we have stated in the reasons for the amendment to Article 44 and ask you to reconsider whether we want the most people to be employed or to be trapped with the inability to do some of the jobs that are in the interest of the legal protection of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53614	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 48th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 48 refers to enrolment in the register of law firms. This provides the necessary conditions for the entry of a lawyer-ortarian society. In paragraph 5, point 5 is replaced by the following: if the company has concluded a professional liability insurance contract in accordance with the provisions of Article 37 of this Act. We suggested that this point be deleted. We have an argument for that. Someone said this institute was necessary. Maybe it's necessary, and now that you go to a farmer and tell him, a 30 or 40-year-old tractor is not good to go out into the field to plow, he better do it with a new tractor. Of course he knows, but he can't, he doesn't have the means and he can't buy. It wasn't necessary to introduce this insurance institute into the law firm. In Ljubija, Krupnje, Baja Basta, there are many such places in Serbia where lawyers are left out of work, regardless of whether this institute is being introduced or not, because there are no more jobs and they have nothing to do. As the law is passed, the ones he refers to are getting harder and harder. Indeed, here it can be seen that some who in their discussions find out about which lobbies, perhaps unconsciously, they work for, are so easy to implement. It's nice to be insured, but how when there's no job, how to do it. It had to be a lot different to think about. I think the proposal for this law, which was a little more favourable in 2005 than it is now, but Mr. Lawyers, be content, it is better today to pass this law than it was in a year, except for those who have really made a good choice. It seems to me that the minister of justice has nothing to do with it, they'll have to deal with it, and the rest of you, look at what you're going to do, you'll have to requalified. In Serbia alone, doctors do not treat, only in Serbia are doctors who may be conductors or drivers in the GSP, so will lawyers and lawyers, with judges, especially when there are still judges who go to law offices, receive from the state a fee and contribute little to those who have registered, and those who want to register an attorney's office and work have no jobs and can't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53616	Members of the 48th Amendment were submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic and joint MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Bojan Djuric. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53617	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our amendment reads as follows: "The unique directory of legal partner societies is run by the Serbian Bar of Lawyers by procedure and by means of the act of this chamber". This is a very simple amendment, and it was wanted to be achieved to avoid the classification of these companies in the regime of the Agency for Business Registers, and we thought that enough was to run a single directory in the Serbian Bar. This amendment was submitted for the reason why we participated last month in the public hearing of the Law on Lawyerry and the public hearing was attended by representatives of Serbia's Bar of Lawyers, the Vojvodina Bar, Belgrade and all other legal chambers that exist in Serbia's territory. They were then reached in principle by some arrangements in this sense that, in addition to the principles which have now been laid down, to avoid the classification of these companies in the APR regime, to prevent the establishment of new legal chambers without the consent of the highest authority of the Chamber, whose area of competence would be affected by the area of jurisdiction of the newly established chamber. Then to establish stricter criteria for the withdrawal of public authority, to explicitly prescribe the temporaryity and measures and to allow the establishment of a law firm under certain conditions within the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers to be established. So these were some solutions that were acceptable to both the Serbian Bar Association and the Vojvodina Bar, as well as to most of the legal chambers whose representatives were sitting in public listening to this bill of law. I'm undermining that even today we're talking about the law on barrage, these are the assumptions that the present lawyers have pointed out as necessary to bring the law on law enforcement to life for the best benefit of all lawyers. These are the principles, these are the common arrangements I just read. What's going on? The task force that drafted the Bill of Lawyers was composed of eight members, of which six were lawyers, and two from the ministry's ranks. So, we have one bill of law, where the mostly legal profession is represented. We have some common assumptions that lawyers have just come up with at a joint meeting in the Serbian Parliament. We have amendments that have been submitted by the LDP, which are in line with this agreement, that is, the arrangements reached in that public hearing. Of all these amendments, which we have submitted, only two amendments have been adopted, in an article. 20 and 54. I underline that both Serbia's Bar Association and the Vojvodina Bar have proposed that amendments be submitted and one and the other have defined the need for amendments to the law from around 14 to 15 amendments. In fact, it was only adopted to amend Articles 20 and 54. So, if this law is in the interest of law enforcement, if this law has been written in the principal part by lawyers, if certain amendments have been proposed by lawyers, I really don't see the reason why in this way it reacted to the government's response, when two, in fact, adopted by lawyers, were proposed, and 126 amendments were rejected. Especially for that reason, because we heard today that lawyers were to decide how this law would regulate their activity, their organization and everything else that belonged to the work and work of a lawyer. Therefore, it is illusory that we are discussing each amendment individually today, to refer to all possible termological changes, additions, corrections if we are concerned about key issues, which have in principle agreed in the principal part of the lawyers, or their legal chambers, simply cannot get a more positive answer, so I am asking whether this law will really be a law of law or it will be just one law that is imposed and which, in fact, represents just the result of perhaps some individual interest which actually governs the law itself. Therefore, it is not the aim of any law that is being made, which is being implemented, to represent any individual interest and to protect that interest, but the aim of the law is precisely to frame a particular problem in accordance with real life and to make the implementation of that law possible, and all in the interest of all those who experience it in some way or who ultimately live it. For this reason, I will add just one more sentence, I can discuss all future amendments that will come to the agenda of today's sittings and I can give you an explanation for each of these amendments, but basically we will return to what I think is at least and crucial, why we adopt this law if we write one, we talk another, and the third one at the end we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53618	Six minutes and 44 seconds used time by authorised representatives of the parliamentary group. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 50th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 51st amendment. The Government and the Justice Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 52nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53619	Only one sentence, which is an amendment that consistently implements the solutions given in Articles 44 and 47. A proposal, where after saying it to me in Section 2. "which are members of society" we replace with the words "employee in society and members of society", where I say we allow those solutions that are consistent in Articles 44 and 47 to be implemented, but given that no previous amendments have been adopted, then it is essential that we also talk about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53620	Members of the 54th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MP Maja Lausevic and joint MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Zoran Đurić. The Government and the Justice Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that these amendments have become an integral part of the draft law. Since it is different proposings and the same text, amendments have then been accepted. The 54th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. You have received notice that the amendment submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic in writing has withdrawn the MP from the procedure. I'm sorry, my bad. To Article 67. National MP Srdjan Mikovic withdrew on article 67, and submitted an amendment with a correction to article 54. The 54th amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Mikovic, with a correction. The correction is in the part of the text 'The President of the UO in the winning legal face', it's a correction. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Srdjan Mikovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53621	Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of dear fellow Members, in Article 54. The draft law defines the conditions for making a decision on enrolment in the register of legal trainees. Thus, in point 6) everything must not exist in order to be entered into the legal trainees’ register. Among other things, the absence of other registered independent activity, etc. In the original amendment, I suggested that, as a condition excluded, the conditions which prevent the entry be left out the following words "the chairman of the Management Board in the legal person". By submitting the amendment, I have indicated that the bill does not distinguish between profitable and non-profit organisations. Just that it should be possible for both the lawyer and the legal intern to be president of the board of directors in law, regardless of whether it is a winning or non-profit organisation. I think that the correction that I have made on the proposed amendment is closer to defining this and excluding that someone cannot be entered in the register of legal trainees is merely the function of the chairman of the board of directors in the winning legal person, and that it is possible for all those who are presidents of non-profit boards, such as certain NGOs, cultural and artistic societies or some legal persons dealing with scientific, sports or other areas, to enable a legal trainee, a potential legal trainee to sign in to the legal trainee's register. Again, I must say, given that the main responsibility in the attorney's office is carried by a lawyer, by allowing an employee, a lawyer's intern to be in this position in a certain irrefutable legal person, in no way does any social value question. In that sense, if this is allowed for persons who claim to enroll in the law firm, we are equating the position of those persons with all other persons in society and other employees. In that sense, I urge that this amendment be accepted with a correction, because that only contributes to the equality of all employees, regardless of whether someone is a legal intern or is employed elsewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53622	One minute of the MP's time was used. The word has a minister, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53623	That's what we're talking about. I just want to say that on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice, we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53624	I find that, on behalf of the prime minister, she accepted the amendment with the correction. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53625	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this amendment has been adopted as it has been submitted, I ask one question – what then happens to Article. 6, 21st and 83rd of this law, which actually deals with conditions for entry into the Bar, incompatibility of affairs and the termination of the right to practice legal activity?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53626	The word has a minister, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53627	I'll try to explain. He's referring to the interns. These members you listed refer to lawyers themselves, and this applies to trainees, and it is in some way illogical for them as employees in law offices to be limited in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53628	The word has a letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53629	I understand this is about interns, but my question is actually directed in that direction that if we let legal interns do it, why don't we also let lawyers do it? That's the logical thing to do. So, if one trainee can be the chairman of a Jucom Management Board, why can't the chairman of the Jucom Management Board be a lawyer? It's the same inconceivable legal face. It's about the Yugoslav Committee of Lawyers. In case the law goes through like this, as proposed, it cannot possibly be the president of that organization. So that's actually the problem with this law: that if we want to fix it on one side and fix it, in other places there are still illogicalities that have obviously been cemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53630	The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53631	I'm sorry, I don't know if you were present when we discussed this amendment, regarding the membership of a lawyer on boards. That's when I said, it was in the morning exposure, that I think it should be accepted where it is, just as you yourself stated, about non-profit organizations. It wasn't such an amendment, but I said I was very open if there were legal-technical opportunities for such a thing to be accepted. Why is it not accepted in this original form, as suggested, what still exists? Because sometimes the presidents of the boards of directors, I talk about all the organizations, both the winnings and the impregnable, the dealings and the representations. That could be collapsing with the attorney's business. That was the explanation I got from the Task Force. I said the Department of Justice respected the position of the Working Party. In certain parts, I didn't agree either, but, as I said, it's democracy, that you respect the will of the majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53632	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 54. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53633	This amendment concerns the text of the oath by the legal intern. I will immediately say that the text of the proposed oath, as you suggested, differs from the text proposed by the amendment only in that we ask that the trainee swear by his honor. In an explanation of why the amendment is not accepted, the government says the government does not accept the amendment for the reasons why the text of the oath by the legal intern in the bill is more appropriate. That's the government's explanation. If it's more appropriate because it doesn't say that an intern swears by his honor, then either someone doesn't know the strength of this when someone swears by his honor or doesn't care about it. It's not good for both of us. Madam Minister, to be clear, no one here has any illusion that this oath will absolutely be binding on anyone. We know of some who took oaths in the church, so they didn't commit them. They even ran them down directly. So we have no illusions about this. However, it is about young people, trainees who enter this area for the first time, into this activity. If you want it to be something serious, that these people remember those vows and that it really does commit them tomorrow, then you should have accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53634	The amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53635	If it wasn't for the government's opinions, I'd really be in a lot of doubt what it's supposed to be written in some regulation. We asked this amendment to delete attitude 4, and it reads – the legal intern cannot handle the affairs of the lawyer on his own. It's the most normal thing, it's forbidden. However, the government is notifying us that it must be potentiated. It's true that we're looking for an amendment, but it has to be written, because when it's written it makes a commitment. I could tell you about a lot of things that are written, so they don't bind anyone, those oaths, etc. Tadic swore an oath to KiM, so he brought in EULEX and doesn't talk about KIM anymore. Let's not spread the subject now. Some other topics have opened up to the concept of this law. Probably the worst concept of the law couldn't have been made by lawyers if they were the creators of this. The law probably had to have 30 provisions, several provisions that define the status of lawyers and trainees, their status issues, certainly the issue of the bar, registration, grounds for disciplinary responsibility and the end. But no. And on this issue, interests are being broken. That's why we have a situation to invent some new categories, it's written something, it's supposed to want Serbia to play what's going on in Europe, so let's accept it, and we all know that probably 40% of these provisions mean nothing, and when lawyers get to the point of partial disseminating it, you know what it's going to look like. In the end, just to remind you, a lawyer is from the point of view, if I may say, state administration, self-employedness, it's not a public service, as some interpret it. She's, first of all, self-employed. If it's self-activities, today we've heard so much improvisation on how to arrange the area, and it's supposed to be protected by clients, so it's supposed to be lawyers, so it's supposed to protect the state. You can see for yourself what our lawyer situation is like. God forbid some lawyer defends someone in The Hague, he'd get nine life sentences. You see how many people are running away from lawyers. Unfortunately, lawyers are inevitable now, if for nothing else, at least for the sake of the audit. That's what someone said earlier, that we need lawyers. I apologize to those people who are engaged in this profession, who have achieved exceptional results and honor, in terms of morals and professional code, but I have to tell you that there are few of them in law enforcement. This government goes warm-cold to lawyers from time to time. One minute the lawyers are responding, one minute they're not responding. At one point they become the subject of a special law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, and then action goes on how to prevent lawyers from receiving fulfillment through their accounts from the opposite side, in order to avoid paying taxes, etc. Well, then we have a situation where our lawyers are in state services, and then we have a situation where some who weren't as successful as lawyers have split up, one of them is going to hold an office, and the other is going to go through some of the parties to power, and then they're going to throw things in. We are here today to praise the law when citizens know very well what law is like in Serbia. Everyone had at least one meeting with a lawyer about some issue they were supposed to settle in court. I think that other logic should be applied, as little as possible, only the provisions that forbid something, the basic things where the conditions are in the positive classification, and all other things to leave to the bar, while respecting the procedural provisions, means those rules that regulate representation, representation and other things. Of course, this is one concept, I agree, of the reform strategy, but the reform strategy does not say anything that Natasa Kandic can represent the victims in court, and she represents before the Special Court. Maybe someone doesn't know. It doesn't say anywhere in any regulation that someone from the office can dictate the verdicts, so we've also had a confession that the first American secretary is in charge of legal matters being observed by all of this. We also have a situation where some lawyers work for someone else who doesn't think very well of this country. It's all there is, but we have little disciplinary procedures and, of course, we have a standing guard, as it exists with a doctor, with a dentist, so it exists with a lawyer, only when it appears as a competition that needs to be destroyed. Then you get a lawyer's chamber, throw out a man, and then they finish the job. Just to remind the public, since it's pretty familiar, it's true that every police department that's been chosen lawyers to be defense attorneys on official duty. Now talk about the attorney's secret, so I can believe you. How many such lawyers are there who plant themselves in custody, in order to eventually find out as much as possible, and then BIA and these others to finish the job in the dark. This is followed later by elected judges, elected councils. It's our reality. It does not like those in power, but everything changes, so I guess this will change, only if the citizens of the Republic of Serbia want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53636	Members of the 64th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic and joint MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Bojan Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Vice-President Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53637	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is one of those amendments that I mentioned earlier. For reasons of clarity, I will read exactly what our amendment reads: "The Act of the Law Chamber of Serbia, in accordance with its statute, with the consent of most lawyers in a referendum of the Bar of Lawyers in its composition whose area of jurisdiction is changing, can also be established other legal chambers within the Serbian Bar of Lawyers". So it's a very clear amendment. We wanted this amendment to prevent the establishment of new legal chambers without the consent of most lawyers interested in decision-making in the area that would be affected by the area of jurisdiction of the newly established chamber. However, the amendment has not been adopted. This puts independence, independence and the public importance of law enforcement at risk. We are, in fact, challenging even Article 2 of this bill on law of law. If that independence, independence and the public significance of the lawyer, which are referred to as title above Article 2, there is, in that case, a danger of self-will, abuse. This all leads to legal uncertainty. A lawyer's chamber is a much more serious organization than that, in fact, this bill foresees. Thus, it is really unacceptable to allow even the possibility that someone is abusing the situation so that they can decide whether to establish a new legal chamber in the area where another exists. I believe that the Vojvodine Bar, which has been in existence for more than 200 years, and that it has a certain integrity and reputation in society and that, in case we come into a position to establish a new bar in Vojvodina territory, we will only destroy the reputation of that bar and question the possibility of its operation on the territory of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53638	Minister Malovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53639	Although I agree with you in much of what I agree with you, I simply cannot agree on this, because I do not think it is true that this bill would undermine the independence and independence of the legal profession on this issue, because the bill stipulates that this issue is governed by the statute, and that is what we have cited as an explanation for the refusal of amendments. I think this is how the establishment of new legal chambers would have just raised the independence of the law profession, because it was left to lawyers themselves within their professional chamber to settle the issue, not to settle it by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53640	First Ambassador Srdjan Mikovic, and then I'll give you my word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53641	A few amendments we've submitted, something I've submitted, I don't know if, in all the proposed amendments, the same texts have been submitted by LDP representatives. Most of the amendments, including amendments to this article, were submitted in the first half of March, later the same text of the amendment entered the procedure. However, when I proposed all these amendments, I had in mind the bill and the proposal of Article 67 of the Law, where certain things that can be regulated by the statute are regulated by the bill, which makes sense, because if it is a good solution in the bill, I think it is less important whether it is matter for the statute or for the law itself, if it is a good solution. We can talk here whether it's a good solution or not. In relation to this proposed text, I have proposed certain amendments and have tried to correct, i.e. to create conditions for the revision of such a bill. However, given today's decision by the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly, where, among other things, Article 67, an amendment has been attacked and an attempt has been made to repair that member, I think that this argument given by the Government makes more sense, as regards all these matters in the matter of a possible referendum, the way that lawyers from the area of certain legal chambers should be declared where they should be changed, that we can do so within the legal organisation to regulate and to provide, hopefully, with the statutes, such a solution that Mrs. Judita Popovic and I have made at different times, but from word to word alike. We now remain that if we are not in the voting day, we will be able to get most of this amendment, a further step is in the bodies of the bar, or the assembly of the bar, to try to fight for such or any good solution to be adopted by the competent authorities of the Serbian Bar of Lawyers. In that sense, I do not see so tragically, even if certain amendments are adopted or not adopted, including that amendment with regard to the single directory of legal partner societies, I allow the possibility that each individual MP cannot see the totality of this, but I also believe that every MP who tried to intervene with the amendment under the bill has done so with the best intention. I think the discussions that exist here and that will be recorded in the minutes of this session may be the basis for further regulation under the statutes of the Serbian Bar of Lawyers. In that part, I appeal for amendments to be accepted in the voting day. However, if not, then the second part remains, that within the Serbian lawyer organisation itself, we should try to regulate it with the statute, again speaking in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53642	The word has been made by the MPs of the People's Republic of Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53643	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, just for a moment. The point is that this amendment was proposed after talks and agreements with the bar. It's something that is obviously the desire and will of lawyers who have joined in the bar and Vojvodina and Serbia, as well as these other chambers. Therefore, this is not an amendment just for the sake of amendments, not for the sake of form, but if lawyers consider this to be the only good solution and that this is how this member of the law on law is repaired, I don't think there is room to explain that it could possibly be done in another way, by the statute of the Serbian Bar of Lawyers. I don't think we can have a double approach to the problem and we can sort things out by law, and leave the others to get rid of each other in walking, in some statute, or in some other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53644	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53645	Very short. Here we have two types of simultaneous efforts, one to make the law as short as possible, to leave as much as possible to the lawyer's chambers, above all to the Serbian Bar Association, to regulate a number of issues of importance for the lawyer, and on the other hand, to make as much of what needs to be regulated by the law of the Serbian Bar of Lawyers. I think colleague Srdjan Mikovic said the right thing. If the law leaves an opportunity for Serbia's Bar Association to establish other legal chambers within Serbia's Bar Association, and Mrs Judita Popovic says lawyers are in a mood for it, then the law gives them the opportunity to transfer their mood to their statutes and to regulate whether it will do so with a referendum or any kind of statement. Let them do as you suggested with the amendment, that would be a great solution. I think that's the kind of dilemma we need just for the sake of the public to get rid of.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53646	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53647	I'll use it, the subject is that, and when I'm named by Article 64, here's what I'm taking the opportunity to do, and now I'm talking about it, and it's about Article 67, the authorities of the bar, and literally in the subject that we're all talking about, but in a slightly different way. This is one of the few issues that we agree on, which is what the authorities will have in the chamber, what its composition, how the election will be, how the term of office, the work of the Serbian Chamber of Lawyers and the chambers in its composition, how the public authority entrusted with this law will be, and all other issues of importance for the lawyer should be resolved by the statute of the bar. Is there an agreement that some of the amendments are being adopted right now, and that it pleases the bar or that it's letting them decide, I really think it's less important at this point. What is important is that the independence of the law, which is defined by the Constitution, should not be harshly violated if the internal organisation and mutual relations are resolved by us in a way that does not want or considers it appropriate for the professional organisation itself. I don't think it's the task of the state to organise a professional association, but it is the task of the state to oversee the work of such an association and precisely because it is entrusted with public authority. However, you cannot predict Article 64 that an act clearly referred to as the Statute in the preceding position is entrusted with public authority, as this is prohibited by the Constitution. So, Article 64 we're still talking about, but in relation to Article 67, you've provided that the act of Article 3, means, by the statute, it can be done in addition to the establishment of the seat, the area of jurisdiction and the transfer of public authority. You will agree with me, Article 137. The constitution forbids other than the law to transfer public authority. So the statute of the chamber can't be the act that can decide on the transfer of public authority. Please accept that amendment because it is a violation of the Constitution. Don't let the law fall in the Constitutional Court. At the same time, the proposal regulates the detailed organisation of legal chambers, and does not determine how public authorities are performed, i.e. the supervision of public authorities. If we all agree verbally and in public appearances, let's agree on amendments, that is, members of the law that regulates the independence of the professional organisation and the right to regulate within Serbia a certain part of the issue, but what public powers are, we can only pass on to them as the Constitution says, which means by law and not by the statute, and leave that professional association to only determine the demarcation and way of its work. I'm not answering any more amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53648	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 64th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53649	Madam President, Madam Minister, I have suggested in Article 64 of Article 3 that he is changing -- lawyers have the right and duty to establish legal chambers and to inform the Serbian Bar and the statute of delivery of a newly formed chamber. This amendment was not accepted because it did not appear to have been read or interpreted well. What's this about? Mrs. Malovic, pay attention that you suggest that you have the right to form and establish chambers. It's not a dispute, that's what it's supposed to be. In Germany and France, you have the establishment of legal chambers with 200 lawyers, and Belgrade has three and a half thousand lawyers and has one massive construction of a bar in which only groups of people were held by the monopoly. These groups of people today are doing everything to adapt the law on lawyerry to their interests. Belgrade's lawyers and Serbian lawyers are not against the establishment of chambers, but, please, pay attention to one detail, lawyers have the right to establish a regional chamber, but they have the duty to deliver the statutes to Serbia's Bar Association that they have established that chamber. What's the matter here that you don't accept this amendment? Nothing. So they have the right to establish, but are obliged to establish a law and statute of delivery to Serbia's Bar Association. As for some discussions here on some public authority, should public authority be given to have any chambers, regional or republican, I must say that law is a constitutional category. In Article 67, it is so normised and as such must be, above all, a chamber composed of the Republic of Serbia as a republican chamber. If we are to root out corruption and crime and if we want to eradicate the abuses it has, unfortunately, in law enforcement, then the Serbian Bar of Lawyers must have powers, so that one of these founders below does not abuse the bar of attorney in personal interests. Mr Krasic told you, take back five years, Mrs Malovic, I will ask you a parliamentary question and I will ask you for an answer, how many lawyers were under official duty designated by all courts at all levels and by the police, so you will see this anomaly and what is absolutely unacceptable, that one and the same people are on the police list or that the presidents of the courts or judges determine them by official duty, mainly those who were the holders of judicial functions and those who have resistances and those who are prone to corruption and crime. Lawyership is honorable. There are honest and honest people in law enforcement, but there are also those who tend to abuse the law, to use the law. If I were right, you know that. You know that a number of them were both being prosecuted, and in prison, and a lawyer should be cleaned up by those who scribbled the reputation of a lawyer. That's why my amendment is logical and needs to be accepted. If they have the right to establish a chamber, they have an obligation to just forward their statutes to the Serbian bar.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53650	The 64th amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53651	The DSS has not submitted an amendment to this member of the bill. We think there's some reason to react. This member prescribed the existence of the Serbian Bar Association and nine other legal chambers in its composition. If we start from being an independent and independent service, then it should have the right to self-organize and in this respect be fully protected from the influence of the state. That it's not so best to show both this bill and meddling in the independence and independence of law enforcement. It is best seen in this article, paragraph 2, where the statutes will determine the areas of jurisdiction of the legal chambers in its composition. The question is, why don't you go to some variant of an agreement act or some other act? Why the statute if the lawyer already has the right to self-organize? In attitude 4, which is definitely the most problematic, it is predicted that, in the event of the establishment of a new law chamber within Serbia's Bar Association, it will, among other things, transfer to it and public authority. If we look at Article 137, where it is very easy to see that public authority is entrusted directly and only by law. We cannot pass on public powers through the statute or by any other act of the Serbian Bar Association, and that is why the 4th position of this member is anti-constitutional and I think it deserves erasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53652	The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as proposed by the amendment, I must say that it is also envisaged to regulate the conduct of a single directory of law-abiding companies. With regard to public authorities themselves, certain amendments are linked. If an amendment that regulates Serbia's Bar Association is accepted, then this amendment should also be current in an unchanged form. Unless, eventually, we come to the conclusion that we should adopt an amendment that changes it, then this amendment could not exist without change. However, I believe that this amendment, including the other one, would better regulate this area. Again, I must say that only a question of reasons for the confiscation of public authority, which is the government's view that it should be arranged by the Statute of the Bar Association, can defend itself. So whether it's regulated by law or regulated by the Statute, it's kind of a dilemma. However, I must say again that I would not agree with the position that has been issued here, that in any way the bill is against the law in terms of trusting public authority. Since, regardless of how the Bar Associations are organised in Serbia's territory itself, it is known what public powers are and what public powers are generally passed on to the lawyer chamber of Serbia and to the legal chambers in its composition. It can only be a dilemma whether today, tomorrow or sometimes, there will be a change in the territorial organisation of lawyers in the justice chambers in Serbia's territory itself. I don't think there's a problem in that part of us in Vojvodina, because I think the very attorney of the Vojvodina and the functioning of the Vojvodina Bar is an example. I hope that colleagues in the second part of Serbia will also apply at least the good practice that exists in the Vojvodina Bar. I think even smaller problems would be within certain other organisational parts of the organisation itself in Serbia. So, anyway, for now, I'm staying with these amendments, hoping everyone will be adopted. If it's not the one for public authority, then there's no point in adopting this unchanged form either.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53654	The 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53655	Mrs. Malovic, your relationship to the law on law of law in general can be divided into two stages. The first stage is to his work text, which came to the government where you voted for him. Especially your relationship with this law is gaining weight when it comes to amendments of MPs. You can't get out of here anymore that the text of the bill has been made by lawyers. Obviously now, you're right, it's the lawyers, but it looks like they're bulls directed by someone from the ministry. Not from you, but from someone from the ministry, so it seems to me, from some political parties. If you followed closely, it can be very easy and easily concluded that it was so. There is a dilemma - whether to adopt statutes, or some jurisdiction to be adopted in the statutes, rather than in the law. That's the question. Fear has it that those who know how this bill came into play and that the conflicts were among the lawyers themselves. Recently, when a young lawyer told me that when a client walks into my principle and they need to agree on the amount to be paid, he says I can't listen to it. Of course there are such lawyers, but we spend all day, at least we from the SRS don't talk about them today, we don't want to protect them and protect them. We're starting from the fact that the law profession is one, and among other things, and above all, professional, but also human profession. We stand to protect them. We need it, we want to have that law. That is why we have proposed in Article 65 item 1) what all the powers of the Serbian Bar are. So it's said -- deciding on enrolment requests in the book of lawyers, the directory of joint law offices, the register A and the register B, the phone book of lawyers. Register A and register B refers to foreign lawyers. Writer B is under a somewhat stricter condition. We suggest we delete it. So, let's just leave a decision on the application to enroll in the lawyer's directory, the directory of joint law offices. Introducing insurance, foreign lawyers, will further create a problem for those who deal exclusively with law enforcement, on the one hand. On the other hand, I expected that, on the remarks of Mr Krasic, one of the lawyers, would react and say – what he intended to do and how he would help young people, those 100,000 people who work through youth and other cooperatives, to meet them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53656	Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53657	Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, I will explain very briefly, without intent and I am aware of the fact that I cannot influence what is in the bill. I wonder – how far can this go? In article 65, you wrote down public authority. The Constitution says - public authorities, organisations, etc. are entrusted with the law. What's being trusted, it's originally state-of-the-art. In law, which guarantees independence and independence, 70% of these jobs that you've listed here from number 1 to number 15 of this point, they're not business run by the state at all, so to make them easier, they're transferred to the Chamber. I just don't get it. Do you understand what independence and independence means? Enough is involved in this business by procedural laws, where a legal representative appears on behalf of a natural or legal person. You've completely turned your logic around here. When this law is read, it can be concluded that on planet Earth, amoebes were first created, lawyers, and only then clients. It's originally that a man came up first, so his interests came up, so there was a problem with the conflict of interest, so people solved it themselves, and then a group of people came up later who knew how to use some rules, so lawyers came up. At your place -- amoebe, lawyers, then clients. Now you say, "We're transferring public authority." Then you say, "She is independent and independent." It's simple, it's a mess. There's some kind of prescription in here earlier, that's what I have to say. You know, by the age of 80, there was a special relationship between our lawyers and our legal associations abroad. You're going one step further, one step really below this line. You're opening a dilemma, about this attitude everyone's been talking about, it's obviously unconstitutional. An organ entrusted to business can now trust those jobs to someone else under it. Where is that possible? It's not an attorney's chamber. It's a community service. You, in public authority, associate everything with the parent service. Since it's easier to run parent books for born, dead and married state jobs in local self-government units, it's a million years, retail, entrusted business. Now use that form for all types of trust and public authority. That's really scandalous.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53658	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53659	This isn't about trusting public authority, it's about someone having public authority. One thing is, for certain reasons, the state trusts the units of local self-government as state authorities or some other exercise of these state powers under national jurisdiction. However, this is about the work of public authority that has the Bar Associations, and yet they decide in a large number on people's fates. Because, if it is decided on enrolment, on a temporary ban on law enforcement, a permanent ban on law enforcement, if a series of decisions are made, such as, codemaking, tariffs, etc., then it is public authority, but it is not a public authority. This is exactly where you look at the independence and independence of the law profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53660	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 65th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Bojan Djuric together submitted to the 65th amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53661	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this 65th member defines public authority. Public powers are of existential importance to lawyers, therefore, every lawyer knows very well what it means to be entered in the lawyer's register, what it means to be deleted, what it means to decide on the requirements for temporary termination of the right to practice law, to continue law enforcement, to prohibit temporary law enforcement, etc. I gave it only as an illustration of what public authority means. Why is our amendment so important to this article 65? For this reason, in fact, we wanted to establish stricter criteria for the confiscation of public authority and to explicitly prescribe the temporaryity of that measure. So these are the two principles that are important, because, as I have already said, public authorities are really of great importance to lawyers and to their activity. As has already been said on several occasions, it was the lawyers who were not satisfied with such a legal solution, as it was proposed by this draft law on lawyerry. Lawyers are aware of the consequences unless these stricter criteria for the confiscation of public authority are defined and such temporaryity is prescribed. Therefore, I think it is truly appropriate for this amendment to be adopted by us, the LDP MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53662	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration, submitted an amendment to Article 65. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted together to the 65th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Prescrib Group submitted to the title above Articles 67 and 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and has just tabled an amendment to Article 67. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 67th amendment. Mrs. Radovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53663	If, in Article 2 of this proposal, we have defined the law as an independent and independent service to provide professional assistance to natural and legal persons, then it is understood that the basic condition for the existence of that independence is precisely the right of self-organising lawyership. What law enforcement authorities, or legal chamber, should have on their own to decide which composition will be, at all, what the term of the term of office will be, what the constitution of those bodies and the composition of those bodies will be, should be, exclusively, within the jurisdiction of the lawyer. We are glad that the legislator, accepting the amendment of the Justice Committee, which I do not have here in front of me, but in the meantime, I have had the opportunity to find out what it refers to, realized that this member of the law, or the bill, and that we are in fact right all this time we are saying that the lawyer still needs to self-organize.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53664	Mr. Miroslav Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53665	I'm going to do it very briefly, just to add, given that we've moved quickly over this amendment. I see my colleague Mikovic called. We have pointed to this in fact in the principle debate that this is somewhat contrary, the proposal of this member in this bill, to the provisions of the Constitution, of Article 67. We are pleased to have come to understand that there is no first, second vice president, and then to form a presidency. It is very complicated. We discussed this in detail on the Committee today. I think that we have achieved the right measure, and as far as I know, if you accept that amendment, it becomes an integral part of the text, but indeed it still remains she doubts that the state wanted through the law to interfere in the work of the bar, which I don't think any of us here is a wish and that indeed the bar of law itself should establish both its organs, and the way they function and the way they choose. Why should we get involved in this? Of course, the state must prescribe, or the law must provide for what they need in order to establish normal functioning, and then lawyers, if we have already agreed that it is an independent and independent profession, let them determine this. I urge you to accept this amendment and then we will remove many disagreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53666	MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53667	With regard to Article 67 and amendments submitted to Article 67, I think what the Committee on Justice and the administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has come up with is practically the best solution. In the very draft of the law, it was tried in a certain way to define the authorities of the bar, including the electoral assembly, which was not a very happy solution, when there was already a assembly and in that part my original amendment was submitted to intervene. However, what the esteemed colleague Petkovic says, just today we were on the Committee on Justice in an opportunity to take this whole member in detail as a Committee and I think this is the best solution. I note that on the proposal of the Committee, Article 67 should read - the authorities of the Serbian Bar Association are the Assembly, the Management Board, the Supervisory Board, the President, one or more vice-presidents, the disciplinary court, the disciplinary prosecutor, the council and other bodies established by the Statute of the Serbian Bar Association. The second thing, one person cannot perform more than one function in Serbia's Bar Association, unless this law and the Statute of the Serbian Bar of Lawyers determine otherwise. Thirdly, the election process, the duration of the term of office, impeachments, part-time work and the composition of the bodies set out in Article 1 and the number of vice-presidents shall be governed by the Statute of the Law Chamber of Serbia. I purposely read this, so that all those lawyers who are in a position to accompany this session of the Assembly know what proposed solution by the Committee. I think that's good. I think that the Committee's proposal once again affirms the independence of the lawyerry itself and the authorities of the bar and that's a good solution. Again, I must say that, since I have in mind the round tables that have been organised and in general the procedure as we have reached the bill itself, that a certain good practice that existed, I am speaking again, and in the Vojvodina Bar of Lawyers, in the way we choose and renew the organs, so that the continuity is provided, but also the passing of new personnel in the bodies of the bar, it has been tried to be done in the bill. So the intention itself was absolutely correct and good. I think it is even better that if Serbia's Bar Association is in a position to do this with the statute, it is not impossible, in the same or similar way that it was in the proposed basic text of the bill and of Article 67. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53668	The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53669	On behalf of the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to say that I accept this amendment to the Committee on Justice and Administration. I would also like to express my satisfaction with the way the debate is being held on this bill, and I am expressing hope that the future draft law proposed by the Ministry of Justice will take place in this way. I think this is a real constructive contribution to the laws to be applied in this country, to reach quality solutions with common forces and opposition and positional parties. As I said, this was the original proposal by the task force, but for the sake of proper public information, and for you, I want to be honest with you that there was a dilemma by lawyers themselves within the working group and representatives of the bar. I attended a meeting in Eck, which was held in September of last year, where this member was just being discussed, and at that meeting, different opinions were expressed on how the authorities of the bar should be arranged. Then the position prevailed that it should be as it was in the original provision of the bill, but, as I said, I am pleased that we have come to the agreement that this member should look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53670	In accordance with Article 27, I would like to inform the Government's representative, Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, in order to make the procedure of the session easier if the Government, or you, as a representative of the Government, decided to accept all amendments to the Committee, all seven, so that you can then announce to the Assembly that we can conclude with a stenogram what we are changing in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53671	I thank you and also apologize for not reacting earlier. That was my intention, to say that on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice, I accept all the amendments proposed by the Justice Committee. Do I have to read or does that exist in the reports? No, I don't. It means it exists in the reports, so I don't have to do it individually.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53672	I thank the minister of justice. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53673	For the sake of the public, it is necessary to say that a member of the 67th was the most disputed member of Serbia's Bar Association and the Bar Association of Belgrade, and, as the minister said, we also attended a joint meeting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I assured colleagues who felt that the state should not get too involved in the internal organisation of Serbia's Bar Association that the minister of justice, knowing its mood, had always accepted all the proposals that were better than possibly those that entered the assembly procedure. On the day that we discussed this legislative proposal in principle, I promised, too, that I would suggest when amendments are discussed to accept some of the amendments, so Article 67 here was a key member and I think this is a good confirmation that it was neither a wish nor a Ministry of Justice, as a state body, to interfere excessively with those powers and tasks that were exclusively and should remain within the Serbian Bar of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53674	A minute and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. Member of the 67th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. He has writtenly stated that he is withdrawing the amendment to Article 67, so that this amendment ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Bojan Djuric submitted together to the 67th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53675	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Ministers, by the Government's acceptance of the amendment of the Committee on Justice and Administration, the fact that our amendment has also been accepted, because we have also made an objection to the words "election assembly". We felt that it could not be a special body of the Serbian Bar Association, the fact that the LDP's suggestion regarding this Article was accepted is paragraph 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53676	Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Vidinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53677	Madam Minister, in Article 67, I suggested that the change be made and that it be said: "The mandate of the president and vice-president of the Serbian Chamber of Lawyers takes two years and cannot be re-elected in the election assembly held every second year when the new president and vice-president of the Serbian Bar Association are elected in a manner prescribed by the Chamber Statute." What's this about? It is about introducing human resources into this law on law of law, as introduced in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have the first vice president, the second, the third vice president and others who have no idea what to do with the law on barrage. I don't think the Attorney's Chamber function can be performed this way by the proposed vice president as the first vice president in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, he says -- the term of office of the president, the first vice president and the second vice president takes two years and cannot be repeated. After the president's term of office, imagine this, this is nonsense, the president's office takes over the first vice president, and the second vice president takes over. The election assembly, held every other year, elects a second vice president. What's a joke like this for? I can tell you something, Mrs. Malovic, don't bring the public into a dilemma. You will hear after the adoption of this law what lawyers say, round tables that were held on the subject of the law and the objections that lawyers have made, do not agree with these proposals in the law. This lawyer didn't do it alone, absolutely. It is that there were two members, but you have to see how many anomalies there are, how much nonsense, no need. You did not accept an amendment relating to the swearing of an intern, and you accepted the same content for a lawyer when he took an oath. What's that for? It won't be in your agreement, so there'll be problems. Secondly, Serbia's Bar Association has been consulted on the amendments and has not reached an agreement with you to accept the amendments. You don't have to accept our amendments, but we are obliged to say that this law has a number of failures, numerous mistakes, and it will in practice not be effective and will give the desired results. You limit a lot of things, you don't accept amendments to the opposition. We've proposed about 40 amendments, you're handling yourself just eating from the DS and the Committee that you've accepted today, members of the coalition. There you have to accept everything, even if they're wrong tomorrow, even if they actually had the opposite or the unwanted fact or the desired goal. Keep in mind, Mrs Malovic, the basic principles in law-making at international level and what their principles are, such as the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice. Did you put anything in here? You're not. A universal declaration of human rights, many things are violated in relation to human rights by this law. The European Convention on Human Rights, the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Charter of the European Parliament on the basic principles of the European legal profession and the general interest in the functioning of the legal system adopted in 2006. Mrs. Malovic, the lawyership is one of the most important services in each system, especially today in Serbia. I'll remind you of just historical figures who were lawyers, Demosten, Ciceron, Thomas More, Gandhi, Castro, Mendela, Franz Kafka, etc. were primarily lawyers. Just to remind you, this law on attorneyship was expected to build on a lot of things that are democratic, to protect citizens' rights. In our country, lawyers have been going through extremely difficult periods, you know it well – occupations, wars, violence, regime changes, dictatorships, etc. More than 700 lawyers were arrested in the communist regime between 1945 and 1952. Mrs. Malovic, you've had your chance. You missed it. You have not accepted our effective amendments. There are about 80% of lawyers behind these solutions. Don't just raise five or six lawyers and invite them to the ministry and say it's a task force. Ask 7,000 lawyers if these are the solutions you offer the people. This violates fundamental human rights when it comes to the protection of citizens, through the exercise of their rights and the security of law as an honorable service. Lawyership needs to be raised to a higher level. How come, Mrs Malovic, you do not take into account and do not refer to the fact that EU countries and other countries with developed rights take 85% of the judges and prosecutors of the people in law enforcement. You come from law enforcement. I don't know who's writing the laws for you, and how are laws written in Serbia? Other laws, such as the executive procedure, will take place. Without 25 or 30 years of court practice who didn't have, he can't write that law. Consider how many of our logical amendments there are. There are 85% of Serbia's lawyership behind them. That's why lawyers have to find their place, they have to be independent, but to what degree, they have to be cleansed. You must not allow it, he reminded the dream earlier, and Mr Krasic said so, take the list of lawyers for the last five years under official duty, which is determined by the police, calls, and judges who have defined, but without the list of legal chambers, you will see that you will be repeated by the same people who have come in a very strange way, and it is all about the relationship of personal interest and it is on your dock and the ground for corruption and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53678	Five minutes and 45 seconds of time have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 67th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53679	Mrs. Comic, you probably didn't pay attention, I don't want Konstantinovic's amendment, as I am in a difficult conflict with the Resistance, but on Mr. Jojic's amendment. I have great pleasure and I am glad that the public will have the opportunity to hear what the mandate means in Serbia's Bar Association. I have great pleasure, Mrs. Malovic, to inform you that this matter of rotation and things like this has never been seen before. And I can tell you what this is going to look like in practice. As you go to Europe and prove at every turn that you are defined for the rule of law, I would remind you to look at the composition of the Securities Commission. They were elected in 2004, with a five-year term. Their mandate expired in August 2009. Some members of that commission resigned because of that "Knjiz Milos" affair, and they work. So, in 2009, he stopped his term, and here he is in 2011, Milko Stimac's sketch is working. That'll be the same for you with this. Why? The question is, how much does the law in the Republic of Serbia apply? Okay, 250 grams, 750 grams is not applied. How can someone trust you, and it's a great honor to see you because I can tell you. So we have an illegal composition and everything illegal that has been done since September 2009 at the Securities Commission today. I assume you know what that commission means. He can't take any action without that commission. Come on, please, come on out heroically. Let me remind you. This congregation sent two letters to resolve the matter. The government's parties don't want to solve it. And this is what they wanted to solve, so since they can't guess if the mandate is going to be two years, how do our changes, what do we do, let's do a rotation, so when it could be in government, and what can't be in the bar? That's your legal measure. It is your measure of respect for the law, the rule of law, for democracy, for the EU, for NATO you, that is your measure for the life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's an extraordinary pleasure to have been able to present myself in front of such a small auditorium to say that you look around. It's not all in good words. Take a look at some of your associates.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53680	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 68th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 68th amendment. Mr. Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53681	The 68th is practically relying on a previous member of 67 who just accepted the minister, so I wouldn't particularly explain it. I think this is how we regulate the questions that we've opened with this amendment. I just didn't have the heart to read article 67 and this rotation – first vice president, second vice president, etc. I think you did well to accept our proposal, so it'll be quite clear what we wanted to say to Article 68.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53682	National MP Maja Vidinovic submitted to the 68th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 69th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 69. That member regulates the law enforcement authorities, as they choose, what is regulated by this law and what by the statutes of the bar. We have proposed a new position, item 5, which reads: "In the bodies of the first member's position - and there it is about the assembly, the supervisory board, the president of the assembly and so on - he cannot be elected by a person from the ranks of a lawyer who is a member of any political party, and if he joins a political party, he automatically ceases to function in that authority." We really wanted to see the bar, or profession, as some kind of political, and above all, the professional organisation and our motive was that, to the extent possible, we would take the policy out of law. In reasons for not accepting the amendments, the government says it is being guaranteed politically, trade union and any other association. We don't argue at all, but it's regulated by law that judges can't be members of political parties. If it's passed by law here, then there's no problem with that being the case. But the position of the 3rd already existing member is said: "One person cannot perform more than one function in the legal chamber bodies of Serbia's Bar Association unless otherwise regulated by this law." And here it is possible to be members of political parties, unless this law is regulated differently, and you can assume that one political party has recently wanted to receive all judges who have not been re-elected. We simply tried to avoid such a way of deprofessionalizing, that is, the introduction of politics into both the judiciary and the law. I don't think there's gonna be any argument that can argue with this if this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53684	The 72nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mirko Munjic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger is Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53685	This is about the amendment that we have submitted and which is partly explained in some way by the representatives of the SRS in the afternoon debate. This is about the word "verified" that is changed in the word "executive." So, lawyers' chambers are funded from their own resources and these own resources have their own resources. Sources from which legal chambers are financed are admission revenues, then membership fees and other funds. So, in principle, law offices don't have their sponsors, or at least you can't see it from this. Bars of lawyers shall make certain decisions which may be of a status or other nature and those decisions relate to the amount of debt on the basis of these memberships, on the basis of the enrolment, on the basis of other material obligations of lawyers. This amendment precisely requires that all of these decisions, which relate to membership-based debt, enrolment-based debt, debt based on some of the other material obligations of lawyers, have the character of executive documents. Because only by means of an executive document can an effective, quick and complete exercise of the right and interest of the party in that second, in the executive procedure. Therefore, only one word can lead to the effectiveness of one other procedure, i.e. an executive procedure. I think this should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53686	MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53687	It was true that a similar amendment was discussed in the morning, however, for the sake of the public, the transfer of this assembly is likely to be attended by lawyers, both judges and legal professionals, yet we need to know the difference between the credible documents similar to those for execution and enforcement. The accounts, the decisions of the Bar Association, the bills of the attorney's office are similar to those of execution, which means that they can, in a shortened executive procedure, receive an executive clause, namely to be executed, but not by a decision of the attorney's office, because it's a state job, not by a decision of the Bar Association, but by a court decision. So it's just about whether it's about credibility. Credibility yes. How's the road to execution? It's very short, but it's impossible for the Bar Association or the Attorney's Office to take over the role of the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53688	MP Mirko Munjic. You want a replica? No, there wasn't anything offensive, it was a simple statement of attitude. Maybe I didn't follow something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53689	It's just that this isn't about what my colleague was talking about. It's true what you said, that only a court can do it. But we're just asking to find out that these papers, but membership papers, membership debt, enrollment debt and other material obligations, have the character of executive documents. Nothing else. In fact, it is the goal to shorten the future possible enforcement procedure based on these documents. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53690	MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53691	Mr. Chikiriz explained well that I would explain how he's moving into execution. In any event, on the basis of a credible document, a proposal for enforcement is submitted on the basis of a credible document. If there is no dispute, it is absolutely similar for execution and the procedure goes on. There's a possibility of objecting to that, and then a possible lawsuit opens up. If not, you get a clause of law and you go to execution and no problem at all. But we cannot call something that is not and which, if the amendment was adopted in the proposed form, would definitely be contrary to the legislation that now exists in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53692	Mr. Chikiriz, you want within the time of the parliamentary group? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53693	I'll be very brief. What the esteemed colleague Munjic is looking for, it would be the same as a store, craft shop, anyone, write an account and say - this is an executive ID. Then what do we need court for? It's an instrument that only serves, similar, that's what the legal language says, to execute, but it takes a court's decision. According to a shortened procedure, based on a credible I.D., enforcement is carried out. If there is no objection, then it will go into a regular procedure, and the amount will be disputed, and the way in which the interest is calculated, etc. You've really strayed here into something that, unfortunately, you haven't distinguished. It is necessary to distinguish the correct similar for execution and enforcement. The law has made this very nice, very precise, elegantly regulated and really debate in this part should be shortened.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53694	Petar Jojic answered. Under this amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53695	Madam Minister, the amendment to Mirko Munjic is logical. Ask Serbian lawyers who have years and years of experience. What does this mean, credible? Let's just say, no one can say that she's not challenged in the executive procedure, but is she executive? Does he have an executive clause? There is a problem with the provision of Article 72(5). It's not the same, no weight, no capacity to execute. Is it credible, it's not questionable that someone betrayed her, and it's executive? She must have an executive clause. I've been in this business for 30 years. Not like this, please. Don't make a difference between credibility and enforceability. When something's done, there's finally nothing left to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53696	MP Srdjan Mikovic. You probably won't convince each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53697	I have to tell Mr. Jojic, the assumption that eventually the legal chamber's corrections -- the decision on the level of debt, the amount of costs, the enrolment and other material obligations -- would be executive, then we need to change a lot of things in the law, and, besides the court, we need to empower the bar to strike the seals of execution and to prescribe a procedure in terms of all this. Any decision to determine the amount of costs shall have the status of the invoice. Each invoice, each invoice issued in a legal manner, has the character of a credible document that can be executed. It can't be debt cards and all that, and it can be an invoice. In that sense, the term "verified document" is absolutely in agreement with the applicable regulations. If they did something else, it means changing the legal system throughout Serbia. I don't think we have a chance for that, and we don't have a chance by this amendment to change everything about the executive procedure. We'll be able to talk tomorrow or the day after tomorrow about the law of execution, so maybe even partially about this matter, so we can explain what an executive document is, what a credible ID is, but believe me, Mr. Chikiriz is right, it would be good for you to withdraw this amendment. Anyway, for a amendment like this, I can't be.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53698	National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53699	Someone thinks like this, someone like that, but if we want to have legal compliance with the rules, then we can't, colleague Mikovic, talk one thing about the executive procedure and the other about this law. Only if we consider this law to be a lex specialis, then we could agree. It is not disputed that a number of provisions should be amended in the draft of this law, not only on this article, but at least 30-40% should be changed here. When you start with logic, if we want to accept tomorrow that it's credible, but also an executive I.D., that's where we differ. So what you said, in the Implementing Procedure Act, can only be said that the I.D. is enforceable. If it's about law enforcement, we can talk and be accepted only by the law of Lex specialis.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53700	MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53701	On the occasion of Mr. Munjic's amendment, I would like to explain it in a plastic way, in practice. The government changed, and in Vračar municipality came, Mikovic, yours and appeared... (President: You will, please, speak to the Parliament, not to the Messenger. Don't break the Rules of Procedure. It's a picture. It's easier to understand. I'll watch, with great pleasure, Mrs. Malovic. What happened? The public company for the business space had some lease claim, folded the tabak, sent at that time the Social Accounting Service and they forced the collection without any solution, without anything, based on any accounting. There's been a procedure and I don't want to tell you any more. They saw that they were wrong, but they were neither credible nor there were executive documents, but they said – the lease is public income, because business space is a company belonging to local self-government, and the facility is allegedly state property. It's past the law, but that's how it's been going for years. Let me get back to this article. So, for the bar, the lawyer is not the third person, he's the ingredient, he's part of the bar. If he has some debts, and the lawyer's chamber has arrived on the basis of membership fees or, as you say, other expenses, then such an account that gives the bar to its member may have the status of executive documents and be carried out as soon as possible. Because otherwise, if it had the status of a credible I.D., then a lawyer in relation to the bar would be like that citizen of Chačka over a public utility that delivered him the heat.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53702	MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53703	I am a member of Serbia's Bar Association and the Vojvodina Bar, and I am interested in ensuring that all obligations to the chambers are met on time. However, I believe that even chambers cannot be and certainly no lawyer would be happy if he were favored in relation to the rest of Serbia. What would that mean if we were to reroute the entire system and only to seek the Vojvodina or Serbia's legal chamber, we could go into execution on the basis of some piece of paper that the lawyer's chamber betrays and says – debt is so much and the whole of Serbia is subject to another system of credible documents, on the basis of this proposal for execution and I beg you nicely? We can think about other things here, so maybe the lawyer in advance, even before the maturity of the obligation to issue a note to the bar, so he can charge for something like that. I don't think we should caricate it, but we should go into that system that exists all over Serbia. So, when an invoice is issued, this invoice is a credible document and, based on that invoice, the law enforcement authorities can start with a proposal to execute, with a decision to execute, as is true for all other debtors, I am speaking in accordance with the legislation in force now. If, eventually, the draft law on enforcement and security is regulated differently, so anyone who issues the invoice can be considered an executive correction, then we could talk about it, but we can't get into a situation to favor anyone or a bar, no matter how much I'm on the side of a law firm and a bar.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53704	National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53705	When it comes to Article 5's proposal, it is smarter and more effective that the law is not credible, but enforceable. You'll be in a situation, my colleague, that many things will be controversial, whether they are executive. It's better for an attorney's chamber in the provision of a precise standard, that it's not credible, than that it's executive. What will you do when someone betrays the invoice, how will they get the execution? Secondly, it is not disputed that she is credible, but she must be executed. It is therefore in the interest of the attorney to change the authentic word executive. It's effective to function as a lawyer, so you won't be in a situation tomorrow and the bar of attorneys whether something's done or not. If the law determines, there is no longer any dispute, so that the legal chambers are slowed down and outsmarted whether it is enforceability or credibility, the law should hold enforceability. It's the only solution to the bar.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53706	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment to Article 73. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53707	Madam Minister, if you listen to this carefully, I think you'll accept this amendment and show your complete neutrality under this law, it means it wasn't done in the ministry. Because there are practically favorite lawyers in practice, we have suggested that Article 74's position be changed by making the bar mandatory to deliver to the President of the Court and other bodies, above all to the MUP, a list of lawyers from that area who can act. On the other hand, the court or other bodies, first of all the MUP, are obliged to submit a report to the bar twice a year on persons engaged, of course, under the threat of fines. We predicted here, not to read the amendment now. If it all worked like that, it would have been avoided if there were lawyers favorites who always acted in front of certain courts, or other bodies. Madam Minister, I don't know if you and the President of the Assembly have been informed that the SRS is organising a big rally tomorrow in Sapco to support Bozidar Vukurevic. Please inform the President of the Republic as well. Of course, his regime did. We'll show tomorrow he's wrong. You're welcome, I invite you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53708	National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 75th amendment. Mr. Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53709	This article sets out the disciplinary responsibility of lawyers and trainees and says in attitude 2: "Agreements and legal trainees are disciplinaryly responsible for easier and more serious violations of duty and respects the law, which are governed by the statutes of the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers. "We predicted to erase this third position, where you list what are easier, what are major injuries to duty. I did not get an explanation from the principle debate because it is considered as a serious injury to demand a fee greater than the fee prescribed by tariff. I've already said, I think it's a bigger injury if one of the lawyers asks for a smaller fee and thus destroys the competition, and of course, the parties will have the opportunity, if they all have the same price, to choose, so they won't go to the one who's going to charge them more. I didn't get a reason for refusing and issuing an account to a party for receiving a fee or a reward. In principle, we also suggested that it be not an account but a reckoning. Otherwise, this is an introduction to fiscalization, but I can see that the amendment in which the reckoning stands has been accepted, so we've made that clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53710	The 75th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 78th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 81st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 83rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Bojan Djuric. Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53711	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was clear to us that unless you have accepted our amendments to Articles 6 and 21, in this case you will certainly not accept this amendment to Article 83, since all these amendments are actually tied up and refer to the position of lawyers when they are hired as directors, or when they are appointed presidents of a board of directors in a legal person. That's quite clear. However, reading this explanation why our amendment to Article 83 was not accepted is a certain confusion that was in the government when it decided what to do with lawyers who could be directors of legal persons or members or presidents of boards of legal persons. The explanation is this – the Government does not accept the amendment, given that it is a provision of Article 6. The draft law provided for as a condition for enrolment in the register of lawyers that the candidate cannot be a member of the board of directors of the legal entity, is therefore the same reason for the termination of the right to practice law. However, Article 6(7) provides that a lawyer cannot carry out his or her duties if the director or chairman of the board of directors is in a legal person. Therefore, there is no mention of membership in the board of directors of the legal entity at all, so it is really unclear why this amendment was rejected, although the government's intention could be understood as to why the amendment was rejected, but it is only saying that they were not exactly clear criteria and reasons why a lawyer could not be the director of a legal person, i.e. the chairman of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53712	National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 84th amendment. Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53713	We have submitted to article 84 of the amendment. We see that the second amendment of colleagues from the ruling majority has been accepted and we are glad that, in another way, this proposal has been regulated which we have tabled. You've expressed pleasure in today's debate. Indeed, we have tried to make this law as much as possible, but it remains her suspicion and regrettable that the bill has come in this form, and I think that the MPs, by their engagement in a very short time, have succeeded in making this law significantly better. Some provisions will certainly not be easy to apply, but we will change them very quickly, so this law will also get the real meaning it needs for the law profession. Thank you, no more DSS amendments. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53714	The 84th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 84 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 84th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53715	Madam President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the New Serbia parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to add in Article 84(3) after the word "legislative" the words "and within 30 days of the expiry of the deadline within which the decision had to be made". The reasons for this amendment – for reasons of legal certainty, a period within which a dissatisfied party may file a complaint must be set. In modern theory and practice, both foreign and our own, a unique position is taken that an unsatisfactory party must have the right to take a legal remedy in a situation where the competent authority, within the prescribed time limit, does not make a decision at its request. The right of the party cannot be unlimited, i.e. in all modern systems and branches of the right, that period is limited, 30 days is in accordance with the general principles of our right. I don't see why this amendment isn't accepted. The fact is that a colleague, Konstantinovic, partially fixed this law, but I think this was more accurate. Otherwise, as a general MP in today's debate, I cannot be at all satisfied with the way the amendment is explained when it is not accepted. We had a little disagreement about it in the afternoon discussion. If Vuk Dincic submits one amendment to Article 6, and if he submits to paragraph 1, point 6 and item 10, and only paragraph 1 and paragraph 8, and my amendment which deleted that point, where practically that amendment has been accepted, I cannot be satisfied with its reasoning, because there is no mention of point 10. So I appeal to the minister that, in the future, these things are displayed a little more precisely, and I know that the time is very short for you too, that there are a lot of amendments, but it is necessary that these things are not repeated because of some precision in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53716	National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Aleksandar Martinovic, National MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic and together MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted to the 85th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53717	Very short. In Article 85, we suggested that Article 2 be deleted. Reason - the position is in line with the widely accepted legal views of Serbian and modern positive and parallel rights, so there is no need to particularly stand out in the law. The simple rule provided for in this attitude is understood. It's a liquid of modern law, so there's no need to stand out in particular. Like I said, I think it's too high and that's why you need to delete it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53718	Members of the 86th Amendment were submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic and joint MPs Judita Popovic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Bojan Djuric. Mr. Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53719	Ladies and gentlemen, in the amendment, I have proposed that Article 86, following Article 2, paragraph 3, which reads: "A lawyer's chamber within the law chamber of Serbia, which meets the conditions for the establishment and operation of the law firm of the 2nd member's office, can set up a law firm, in accordance with the general and specialised training programme governing Serbia's Bar Association". In this way, there is no question of a general and specialized training programme established at the level of Serbia's Bar of Lawyers, but I believe that this amendment only opens up the possibility of setting up and a law firm in law offices, specifically the Vojvodina Bar of Lawyers or other regional bar attorneys. In an explanation, the government did not accept the amendment for the reason that the establishment of a law firm in chambers within the Serbian Bar Association is governed by the statutes and other general acts of the chambers. It can also be regulated by the statutes. I am speaking again, in the proposed amendment, I have left the possibility of this matter being regulated by law. If she accepts it, it'd be nice. If it is not accepted, we are left with a view to trying to fight for such a solution, which I think can only contribute to improving the work of lawyers, lawyers, graduate lawyers and persons employed in law offices.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53720	Judita Popovic, he has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53721	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the objective of our amendment was to allow, under certain conditions, legal chambers within the Serbian Bar Association to be established. First of all, we had in mind a kind of autonomy, as if it were given to these other legal chambers, and also to some possibility of professional training. By not adopting this amendment, I think that this possibility has been well denied. So, on the one hand, this autonomy, on the other hand, is the possibility that law offices themselves create professional training and all that is needed in the work of lawyers or lawyers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53722	Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53723	The proposed amendment just wanted it to be explicitly in the law that the lawyers who have been entered into this law do not have the obligation to pass a lawyer's examination until the entry into force of this law. Yes, it's regulated, arranged for Article 93. Proposal for a law, or Article 93, should be interpreted. I thought it was an explicit legal standard to define it. In any case, someone who's been a lawyer for 10, 20, 30 years, who's listed as a lawyer, I thought that for all those lawyers that have been enrolled so far, should be explicitly listed. I do not dispute that this article in 93 was regulated, I felt that my amendment contributed to the clarity of the legal text.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53724	A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment to Article 87. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word was answered by Mr Petar Jojic. Do you want a word after this amendment? (Petar Jojic, from the post: I applied for the amendment of my colleague, Mikovic. You called a little late. (Petar Jojic, from the place: You are in a hurry, I have not been able to pick up.) I'm in no hurry, I have normal dynamics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53725	I see no reason for this amendment to be proposed. He has no purpose. If it's in Article 93. Proposed by Law 1 explicitly normised – lawyers and joint lawyers' offices entered in the register of lawyers and the register of joint lawyers' offices shall continue to work until this law enters into force. Perhaps colleague Mikovic is thinking of something that was possibly clearer, but I think this attitude is clear enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53726	Mr. Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53727	I have also proposed an amendment to Article 93(1), just what you have read, in order to make this more clearly defined. There is no problem if Article 93(1) remains as set out in the draft law. It's about a clearer definition of the legal text, and it's basically the same. It's technically fixed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53728	MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53729	Since we have come back to this amendment a little while, respecting fellow Jojic and fellow Mikovic, we will get to that member, but what does that mean, "they continue to work"? Someone can continue to work without being limited by the deadline that at some point they'll have to lay something down or not. I think my colleague Mikovic is right and that this amendment should be accepted because he clearly speaks more precisely in the law, although fellow Jojic and he are right, but it can simply be corrected by some interpretations, so there is no confusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53730	The 89th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 90th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 90 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE PUBLISH OF THE PUBLIŠTE (individual) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Zoran Krasić, Milica Radović, Milos Aligrudić, Miroslav Petković, Jovan Palalić, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojić, Aleksandar Martinović, Sreto Perić, Dragan Stevanović, Sardjan Spasojević, Zlata Žerić, Miroslav Markić, Srdjan Miković, Mirko Munić, Nenad Čanić, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Gordana Pop Lazić, Boris Žaljić, Milović, Milovan Mladen, Milan Avramović, Nenadak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Omovar, Žaljan Žović, Radanović, Hrović, Hrović, Hrović, Hrović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Maližović, Mil, Milić, Milović You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Maria Bulgarcic, MP of the people, answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53731	Dear Presidents, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, as announced by my colleagues and colleagues from the LDP when the debate was on the principle of this law, we will, of course, support this law on notaries. The law has been waiting for Serbian citizens for decades, practically since 1930, when the law was introduced and which was not introduced in the entire territory of the then-Yugoslavia. I will remind you that we are the only country, except Albania, which has not passed this law. Our neighbours have done so far earlier, but since 2002, BiH, Montenegro in 2006 and all countries in the environment have done so greatly. When we talk about the advantages of this law, it is inevitable to say that this law will make life easier for citizens and will allow them to achieve their civil rights faster and easier, from simple oversignments, to contract certification, securities from value, money keeping, and a whole series of jobs that enables them to do so. There will be no longer long lines in the court buildings or in the court counters. That part of the job will be transferred to the notary offices under this law. Part of state affairs is also transferred to public notebooks and public-booking services. The notary system in parallel law, what I would refer to, has produced excellent results, both in countries in the environment and in all EU member states. Experiences in the application of this law, in the conditions where this law has been well done, if mechanisms of control of its work have been created which are properly applied, have shown that the introduction of this law has contributed to a significant discharge of the courts and authorities of the administration, by the rapid and safe implementation of legal traffic, and thus to the protection of human rights and the interests of all citizens. What I would change in this law is in Article 15, where it says – every 25,000 inhabitants are assigned one public notebook. I think that number is a little too large and pretentious since in the surrounding countries this number is about 20,000 in parallel right. I think it's much more cellular for him to be here with us for 20,000. I especially mean small municipalities, i.e. The small local self-governments that are below 25,000 inhabitants, they need to guarantee, they have this in this law, that every small local self-government has one notary, because people living in small areas are impossible to go into large areas to do some of these jobs. What is not precisely defined by this law is the control mechanism, or monitoring over the first 100 notaries appointed by the Ministry of Justice. I'm afraid of the fact that out of 180 countries we are the 85th country by corruption, unfortunately, and that we are at the very bottom of the scale in the whole region. What he pointed out the other day, Stefan File, when he was visiting us, was a high degree of corruption. What's obvious to him is that it's unpunished by people who deal with corruption. That is also the fact that the 64 issues that the European Commission has provided us to do further. Also, I will remind you of the October 2010 data, which says the bribe was 255 euros per capita in October. What's good about this law is that you accepted the LDP amendment to Article 58 that was submitted by my parliamentary group. Its purpose is to increase citizens' trust as users of public notebook services, and on the other hand to increase the responsibility of this service that gets too much authority. The amendment has been accepted. That we were right when we wrote this amendment speaking today's amendment to Article 59(1), which today has changed the Justice Committee, which is to delete the third person from the list. I hope that the minister, who I think is one of the few ministers who does his job well, will complete this sloppy reform of the judiciary and manage to stand in the way of corruption and crime in this country by the end of her term. I hope that these first 100 notaries that are appointed will not be sympathisers of the ruling coalition, but will be people who are of the calling, knowledge and professions of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53732	I thank my colleague, Bulgarian. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53733	Maria, don't defend my amendment this way, please, there's none of this. As soon as the idea of adopting a law on public records has emerged, and since you've been praised by this File, it means, in the fight against bribery and corruption, first these lawyers, since they've done one piece of work, and those who do overtures in court and in municipalities. It's the height of the fight against bribery and corruption, everything else is ideally good. But the amendment reads like this, I ask that public records be not a public trust service, because I don't know what this "public trust" means. I'm telling you, I'm not gonna have any confidence in the first table you name. Publicly speaking, I will have no confidence in them. Since we represent the second concept of this activity, the amendment requested that Article 2 of Section 1 reads – public notation is a public service through which public authority is exercised which is delegated to this law. Of course, we also put the books in court and in the administrations of local self-government units. In those individuals who completed their courses at law schools before the idea of calling for a reform strategy, we know, the epochal results of the judicial reform strategy are – the booming of crime, especially organised crime, the possibility of an attack and 850,000 euros being carried out in front of a special court building. Of course, I guessed right away that day that it was a cop. What are the epochal results? You're about to house some 400 lawyers to be public notebooks. You don't think there'll be any lines? There'll be lines. Is there going to be a rush? It's gonna be crowded. Maybe not, because they don't have people to record, they don't have a legal job for citizens to do. That's our problem. Mrs. Djukic, I'm sorry I went a little too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53734	All right, you've been since group time. The word is Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53735	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this is one European law and it is not the law of a set of anti-corruption laws. Everyone had a chance in this room to express their views on anti-corruption laws when they were voted on by the laws. The reminders for the sake of some who today are the loudest to complain about corruption have not voted in favour of the laws in this room, nor have they voted in favour of forming a Anti-Corruption Agency. This is a European law that lacks Serbia. This isn't an amendment to the law. This is a whole new law. This law will give citizens of Serbia a very good service. Whether or not someone will have confidence in public notebooks or trust in the public institutions and authorities of the Republic of Serbia, it depends on him, not on people who will just be elected as public notaries. It will certainly be for the benefit of Serbian citizens who will no longer stand in untransparent courts to verify some document, but will be able to identify themselves with whom they want to verify the document. I don't know why some people are afraid of public notebooks and public documents and why some people are constantly afraid of Special Court and why some people are constantly demeaning the work of the Special Court. Just reminders for the sake of those robbers who have kidnapped 850,000 euros have been arrested. At a time when some who mourned the fate of criminals and robbers had the opportunity to govern this country, you never came under the influence of laws that stole money.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53736	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53737	It's in the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you to just tell us the time that MPs have since you've united the debate so we can plan the time. (President: Parliamentary Group - 28 minutes and 30 seconds, and authorised representative seven minutes. What about the other parliamentary groups? (President: You're asking for everything? For everything, of course. (President: others do. I don't think they know. (President: No, no, I won't give you that answer. Why? Is that a secret?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53738	The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53739	At first, the need for amendments to act in Article 2 came to an end. We believe that the text of the bill lacks a provision by which public notation is defined as a profession, as a free profession. We believe that if we already intend to enter into the text of the law a model of the Latin Notary System, then this definition of public notation should find its place in this bill. Free professions, both in the legal science and in the legislation itself, have certain characteristics that make them different from other professions. For example, one of such specificities is the compulsory association of public professionals, which keeps members of the free profession together all the time. In most foreign legislations, this definition of public notation stands as a definition, and you could simply see it through a comparative analysis of these legislations. I find that this definition is completely unwarranted from the text of the bill. It would define itself much better, and it would be much clearer what it means.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53740	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53741	Madam President, when it comes to public notation, I am obliged to say that it is a law deeply affecting the work of the lawyer, which has been laid down by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as an independent and independent legal aid service, in other words, notaries would receive part of the jurisdiction vested in the Constitution in a sovereign manner, in which the provisions of the Constitution on legal aid are definitively violated, and above all in Article 67. Therefore, at the same time a law on law on law enforcement is passed as a constitutional category and a law on public records without the necessary further demarcation, there are no demarcated matters here. They're doing one job both ways, but there's no clear distinction, that's the problem. This law is not consistent. It will lead to overlapping powers, thus depriveing the lawyer of constitutional powers, and citizens, or natural and legal persons, would be prevented from getting quality and professional protection for their threatened and violated rights, i.e. to regulate their legal relations under other laws. This is the government's behaviour, i.e. The resolution ministry, apparently, makes it impossible to offer, as it appears in other laws, law on law enforcement and security law, at least a partial revision of this law and its alignment with the Constitution and other judicial laws. The amendments we have proposed can be corrected. Madam Minister, back in 2000, I was doing a study on public records and, please, it would be good if you used the Institute for Comparative Law, so if you could deliver to the MPs and translate the law from a comparative law and allow us to believe that you had a good intention, that you wanted us to comply with our regulations with international standards, and I must say that the Kingdom of Serbia had the Law on Registration in 1930. However, this notification law did not undefined the powers and competences and public powers to be transferred to the notebook, and the notary, Madam Minister, is not a constitutional category. The constitutional category is the court, the prosecution, the ombudsman, the trustee, but this is nowhere to be found when he's not in the Constitution. The lawyer in the Constitution exists as a constitutional category, but the notebook is gone, unfortunately. If he were a constitutional category, it wouldn't be controversial. The forms of the organization of the notebook and the review of its characteristics in Anglo-Saxon and continental law differ. In 2000, we paid particular attention to the Institute of Comparative Law and we received a mostly overview of all major law on notation. You didn't use much from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53742	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53743	Someone realized to introduce something new and then they now support and say – this is good, this is European law, this is a law missing Serbia. We need Serbian laws, and Serbia is short of work, better and fairer authority, not lacking in the register publicly and so forth. I had the opportunity to go to a public register in Republika Srpska and pay some taxes that are enormously high and you do not tell Serbian citizens what awaits them after this. You're just referring to some lines. I've been to the courts to verify something, I haven't seen so many lines at all. Do they seem to be someone? Don't hide the incompetence and desire of some to dissipate this, to dismember what needs to be dismembered, here, in great order, by some ineffectiveness of the courts. Well, whose problem is it, Madam Minister, if the courts are ineffective? Now I don't want to fall into a trap, really. You try, you are one of the ministers who, if nothing else, honors this National Assembly because you are from the first to the last minute with the MPs. That must be appreciated by whoever is your political opponent. But how can you boast that you've done something right, and this is where the weeds, as a colleague says, judicial reform? She's right there, it's really judicial reform. The confirmation should not have been removed from the courts, from the local self-government. No problem was there to do it quality. So, the citizens will have to now, that's not what you're going to say, much more to pay than they've paid so far. Public records are people who will mostly be lawyers, I believe in these tables that most of them will be lawyers, or maybe some other professions don't matter at all. You don't know, I think colleague Radovic knows that there may be 500 people at law school who have already attended classes. How much: 700. The so-called specialist studies were attended by 700 people, where there were about 100,000 per candidate. It seems to me that he organized no one else until he wrote, participated in the task force for the making of this law, Professor Hiber. What happens when these people finish, they expect a job? Is there gonna be one? He won't. It's not your fault. It's my fault the MPs who experience this law in this way. It's not their fault, but I just can't understand that kind of concept of this bill. This is nakaradno, this will mean nothing for Serbia and even less for the citizens of Serbia. We now admire this as if it would solve a problem near a million unemployed, 800 thousand. He won't. It won't solve any problems. It won't reduce corruption. There's nothing good about this law. But we have participated in this law not by saying that all members are deleted, the cover should exist and we have seen that authority in courts and in local self-government. Since Article 13 mentions the chamber, we believe that the chamber should be deleted, the prosecutor's office should be conducted in courts and in local self-government. I'm not sure anyone's gonna think to say they need to form a court call chamber or a court caller. So what do we do? Someone will say that that is all we lacked, that it is European law and that Serbia will now flourish with such a law. Go away, dear colleagues, nonsense. Let's see what we can do from the already existing situation. Madam Minister, I don't know if I invited you tomorrow, you and the President of the Assembly, to Sabac, at 6:00 p.m.?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53744	Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53745	I have submitted an amendment to Article 15, and in Section 1 and Section 3, where I asked that the first word "in the present opinion" be deleted, and in the 3rd sentence "on the proposal or with the attached opinion of the Chamber" also be deleted. The government has not accepted this amendment because it says it is necessary for public notebooks to be joined in a public-book chamber that is performing, it says, certain public powers in order to perform their jobs more correctly, in order to monitor work and protect interest. Also, he does not forget to mention the government that it is the same in some other countries. So here I asked to delete the words "in the prepared opinion", and you say in response that it is necessary. Something else entirely. You're here to say that according to the rule of the area of a municipality, a city or a city municipality, one notary place. And will you accept, Madam Minister, if, say, the chamber suggests two places? The question is, right? So why do you need the Chamber's opinion? I think the Ministry is both authorized and trained to actually do this. We're simply giving you meaning. Not to you, but to the public-book work, by asking that you, or the Ministry, determine the number of public-book sites, as well as that the minister may change the public-book place at the end if some demographic reasons or other changes so require. It is obvious that you did not recognise our pledge that the Ministry is sufficiently professionally trained and equipped – at least that is how it should be, in what, now we have to express our doubts and that it does not need an absolute opinion of a chamber. The chamber can either be biased, or have some interests of its own, etc. That's why we think it's better if it stays as we suggested by the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53746	The National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond put together the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has the word Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53747	I think now is a chance to get into this area a little bit more thoroughly. You know, since you're trying to reach the EU, there's no single system there that regulates the matter of public notation. There are four systems in theory, so-called Anglo-Saxon, state, Latin and legal. This concept of law falls under that so-called. The Latin type of public records. However, I must draw your attention to the fact that in this and this unspecified law, we amendments were not able to influence the quality of the effect, except that in the first few dozen members of the amendments, we should throw out or rephrase what bothers us, and that some of the public records remain in court and in the administration, units of local self-government. We didn't finish that job, we just wanted to distract ourselves, since we didn't get along very well. Because there are a lot of jobs that the notebook should do, and these are jobs that lawyers do today, and those that work on the authority in the court, in the municipalities, and there is, however, a small part of the work that the municipal administration does. It's not just a statement. There's a lot of legal affairs, and the notebook should be a kind of verification, something that needs to be confirmed and that gives a much greater meaning than a simple private correction. In our terms, pulling this out and giving unsuccessful lawyers who want to be notaries and doing their own monopolies of this job, kidnapping part of the job to lawyers in terms of putting together some papers is completely irrational, and we don't have any hope of doing this. Why won't it work? If we couldn't be sure of the overture that's going on in court, in front of a court officer, if we couldn't be sure of the record, the statement, or something that the judge put together in the outsider procedure, if we can express our suspicion or prove that we're right about the overa in the municipality, what guarantee is that the physical person, with the title of the public notebook and the board, will be reliable? What – a threat to criminal sanctions? These criminal sanctions exist for both judicial and municipal officials. So what's this about? It's a kind of monopolision. What kind of state does the bill admit to not being able to take care of two offices? He says we're not capable of taking care of the book. What's your guarantee that with a future notary, a lawyer, who's going to be selected as a public notary, it's going to be regular? It is proof to me that everything will be irregular and that it will be the cause of many disputes, where some documents will dispute the truth, and that will further affect other matters. There's no guarantee. There's absolutely no guarantee. But this is where it's going to change. If it's such a significant notary, then why is it chosen by the minister? Why doesn't the government choose him? Why isn't he chosen by some expert committee? Why doesn't someone else choose but an individual? On what basis can an individual choose something that should be of public trust? What is the guarantee of public trust that the public should have in the notebook? The minister's choice? Well, don't say that. Ministers get arrested, too. The wrong concept, such as the wrong concept of complete transformation and reform of the judiciary. This is the natural consequence of the wrong concept. I agree that public records match other socio-political systems. This socio-political system can only be characterized as a "drp" system. That's what you're giving evidence for. You say – privatisation failed. You say this, you say that. You count these things that are bad and ugly, I don't make them up, I'm just quoting what you said. What can a notary lawyer do somewhere? He can do a miracle. They can make such a monopoly that it's terrible. And that monopoly in those areas that concern the states of the individual, his rights and his interests. Here, I can tell you in advance, lawyers are going to make an extremely good ad – we're going to go to my notary friend, we're going to finish it, and that's the legal premise that everything is fine, in court we'll end it however you want. Now we can compete here in our feelings, it won't be like that, there's no guarantee, it'll be like this, it'll be nice. Everyone has a right to think it's gonna be nice, but the harsh reality tells us that we can't be easy-minded and swallow this just like that. Here, this was an ideal opportunity for you to strengthen the General Court's special department for a good number of jobs that are entrusted to the notebook, which the judge can do. It's about, say, leftovers, statuses, personal states, etc. And to gain its true weight, for yet the court is a state body. We're going to have people here who got a quick education on some speedy course. The question of whether there could even be a program for that kind of education. The question could have existed by now. They acquired some certificates, some diplomas to get into it. In larger places, it will surely have to be a much stronger service next to the notary. Here, take one example. A few years ago, last year, it seems to me that we've changed one law that courts have to register all the real estate contracts, apartments, especially what's under construction, so that one apartment doesn't happen six times. Right? We've been doing this regulation for nothing. Well, here's what's going to happen to them. He's about to have those contracts certified. So, the epochal announcement, the high expectations of the citizens are heating up from something that this is going to be a deadly blow for some bad and ugly things that are happening, and then we see that it wasn't that blow, it was a sort of channelling, that it still exists, but the chosen ones are protected, the others are not protected. And that's where this notary institution is going to be thrown out. That's why we've submitted these amendments. We're telling you in advance, we couldn't finish these amendments because it's a conceptal difference, but we wanted to draw your attention that it could be much greater damage if it went to this concept, but that we had to move on to another concept. So, to distinguish business, what ends in the community, what ends in the office of the court, what ends with the judge, what ends with the lawyer. Clean bill – long love. This is how it all came to one place, it's going to be one big papazian, about 80 acts that the notebook has to work in some way, and it can also be standardised, it can be some patterns, and yet you have no guarantee that it will allow the normal legal traffic of that notebook. That's the problem. That's why we've submitted these amendments to you. It's all facts, 126, you can vote anything, but you don't solve the problem. When the ministry suggests something like this and calls for a reform strategy, and essentially says there are major problems there, it is a huge failure for the justice ministry. The Justice Department admits that the area couldn't be solved in court, so how will it solve with a natural person, as a notebook, please. That can't be justified logically.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53748	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53749	I proposed in Article 17 after Article 2 to add Article 3 which reads: "A public-recorded act composed outside the official area of the public notebook does not have the property of a public-recorded act". I suggest that the basic text of the bill defines, the official area of the public register covers the area of the basic court in which the official seat of the public register is located. In point 2 of the truth, it is defined that the court may entrust the conduct of the work, within the meaning of Article 4(3) of this Law, only those public notaries who have official headquarters in its territory. However, the 3rd position I have proposed is not only about matters that the court can trust them with, but also about making up all kinds of public-book acts. That is why I believe that this attitude 3 has first and foremost to do with Article 16. The bill, which defines an official seat, where it is defined that it should generally run a public-book office in the place of the official seat. Certain jobs can also work outside the office, but here, first of all, I think the adoption of the amendment will define clearly that a public notebook that has an office in a particular area can't form a public-book act for another area. In that regard, I have proposed this amendment to make a public-book act outside the official area, whether it is in an office or in certain situations where an act is to be made out of the office itself, but only in that particular area of the public notary, that no dispute arises tomorrow that if a public notary makes and draws up an act outside that area, what it will be, whether it will be valid or not be valid. My proposal was to define the absolute local authority for this, and in that sense it is not related to the position of Article 17(2), but above all to the whole of Article 16 and to the first position of Article 17. I think it contributes to the clarity of the legal text and I think it can only be a useful state of such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53750	The 18th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted the amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53751	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I accept this amendment, and I have done so in my afternoon presentation. I think this amendment will also contribute to affirming the rights of national minorities, as we have done in other judicial laws. Now that I have taken the floor, I want to look back at some of the discussions that have been given on this bill and again I want to point out the fact that Serbia has waited very long for this law. Here we have seen in some discussions that a certain analysis has been put in place and in 2000 for the introduction of this institute, and according to my knowledge, this law was joined in 1988, and here it is in 2011 and only now in this respected home are we discussing the provisions of this law. It is also stated that we are the last country in the region, except Albania, which has not passed this law. I don't think we should have the fear of introducing a public notary institute. Public notebooks won't take a job with lawyers. This is explicitly seen in the draft law and in certain provisions, where it is seen that it is not exclusively the right of notors, but there is a shared jurisdiction, jurisdiction and lawyers and notors to draw up certain documents. Certain jurisdiction of the court, which does not constitute a trial in a narrow sense, will move on to notaries. Our position was to be, as you yourself pointed out, the Latin type of notary and to all that could come out of court, i.e. all that can be passed on from court affairs to public records, to do so. But that doesn't mean we don't trust the courts, of course it's not at all questionable, but we think that this will simply make it more effective. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53752	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 18th Amendment has been filed by anyone who wants a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53753	What's in this article 18, practically a public notebook needs to understand a foreign language, so it can work uninterrupted, I think it's jutura. New Serbia and we have submitted that amendment. Of course, you didn't adopt it, because you don't care what you wrote here. But speaking of which, let me just remind you. What are these jobs performed by a public notebook? It's official. Is that right? Under one - private-legal documents. These can be civil-legal acts, such as contracts, gifts, wills, division of assets, adoption, statements and certificates. Public legal documents – legal facts of importance for civil and legal relations, such as birth, death, marriage, divorce, succession, identity, professional training and work experience. Fact of importance for civil-legal traffic, such as overa, authenticity of signatures and seals, identity of copies, copies, translations and similarity to the original. Furthermore, executive documents from confidential and debt relations, such as repayment and debt collection contracts. It also performs other accompanying tasks, such as receiving documents, money and items from values and documents, wills, for example, to hand over to other persons or competent authorities. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. Who is allowed today in this and this Serbia to trust some lawyer who has not been elected judge or prosecutor? He went to law school for a few months, he wants to make it at any cost, he's going to fight to get into one of the hundred, he's going to get his own area, he's going to start these jobs, and who can believe when that notary puts its seal on a piece of paper like that? Can anyone today in Serbia trust such a man? If he can, then you're responsible. For 11 years now, always ahead, I'm warning you what's gonna happen. I told you two and a half years ago what would happen to your transformation into justice, so you can't justify yourself before God or the people or Brussels. Look who's galamatias in the courts. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53754	Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 19th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Happy Peric, from the place: How long do we read? What? How much do we read? We're working while we're working. You're at a full concentration, and I think we can move on. You're my rapper. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on public records. My amendment refers to the 23rd member of this law. I have submitted that amendment with the intention of eradicating the member. Of course, the government has not accepted this amendment, as has not accepted any other amendments to the SRS, but it is an indicative one thing for me, and that is an explanation that the Government gives for the rejection of our amendments. In fact, the government has persistently given the same reasons for refusing these amendments of ours. This argument is contained, above all, in the fact that a new judicial profession is being established, or public notebooks. Of course, the SRS isn't against keeping a notebook. There is a register now, but it is also done in courts and municipalities, or local self-government. My colleague Krasic here spoke with many arguments about why this law should not be passed, which is why our amendments should be accepted. Because when Serbia is in the situation we are in, where we don't trust courts or local self-government, is it just so important that matters of citizens' interest should be entrusted to some public notaries who have completed certain courses, these first tables at law school, and they're probably next at these first tables. It's this pilot project and they're going to fight to educate these future public records. And by this law, like all your other laws, you establish everything and everything, which, of course, you justify to some European standards. In the end, however, practice shows that the MPs of the SRS were always right when they criticised all your laws and all your proposals. I am deeply convinced that we will be right this time, because your arrogant behavior on all our arguments, in the end, turns out to be only to the detriment of the citizens. So I urge Mrs Malovic to reconsider and review the amendments to the SRS and that this matter, which is very important, be treated and understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53756	Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Mrs. Plecevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53757	Article 25 refers to conditions for the appointment of a public register. The amendment, which I have filed in front of the SRS, suggests that the public notebook may be a "employee and" appointed person that meets the conditions that you have counted in this article. As it is written in the bill, it turns out that a notary function is established as an independent activity. This applies in particular to point 8 of Article 25, where it stands – that it has or may, it is one of the conditions, to prove that it will provide adequate premises and equipment for the performance of the public notebook. We in the SRS believe that a notary function should be performed in courts and administrations of local self-government units. Since the work to be done by the public register is already being carried out in these institutions, it is necessary to provide conditions for the work of the public notary within the institutions. By law, the part of state affairs is transferred to a public-book function, does not mean that it should leave the courts and administrations of local self-government units, but should be trained in human and material terms within these institutions for the job. Thus, the conditions set out in point 8 of Article 25 of the public notebooks would not be laid down, but would be the obligation of the institutions mentioned. Since the appointment of public notebooks is carried out by the minister, it would thus reduce the ability of staffing according to party membership, which we already had in the re-election of judges, by being appointed as a person already doing so, of course, if it meets certain professional qualifications.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53758	The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 25th Amendment, MP Riza Halimi, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53759	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Madam Minister, the amendment that I have submitted to practice, that five years after having passed the judicial exam, which I think is too long, because the practice that is necessary before being laid is sufficient, in two years, additional, and the possibility of greater competition and better choice would be created, and this would result in a greater quality for the performance of this function. On this occasion, I will also welcome the adoption of amendments submitted by the parliamentary group of minorities, which concern the precision and completion of minority rights, the use of the native language and in the field of public notation. I think it will help to carry out bilingualism in practice, but mostly this official application of minority language. With us, it's a practice that it's very difficult for the main state authorities, in the judiciary, the D.A.'s office. Unfortunately, even though the laws provide for it, perhaps because of certain inaccuracies that the current laws contain and may not have been binding enough institutions to implement bilingualism, we have this practice that is still a low degree of application of that right guaranteed by the Constitution, which is provided for by law. Unfortunately, we have a very low percentage of the use of that right. I've already said that maybe this situation, not only in the judiciary, but in all state authorities, that all perpetrators who apply and minority language are doing this extra job, is increasing the size of the job. Imagine two perpetrators, one will work in one language, only in Serbian, and he should work in both languages, both in Serbian and Albanian or in another minority language. It's an increased amount of work to him, because he's going to handle fewer cases, if he's a judge, than when it's only one language, for example. in Serbian. Then this one will have consequences for a small number of cases. Again, I am taking this opportunity to explain that something extra, like a public notary, must be completed by accepting these amendments to the end. I'm counting on it to be positively reflected in practice. I hope you've done this, but I haven't been able to see that it's a similar situation in law enforcement. I'm saying, it would take a whole set of judicial laws to bring this matter closer and more precisely, in order to bring into practice this constitutional obligation of official application and minority language. I felt it was necessary to present this opportunity and this problem. Anyway, I think with these supplements, this is going to be a good law, and that's why I support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53760	The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment remains an integral part of the draft law. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. Mrs. Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53761	We have submitted the amendment because we believe that it is necessary here to determine more restrictively the unworthyness in point 2. Our amendment has not been accepted, but we express our satisfaction that, regardless of that fact, an accepted amendment by colleagues from the ruling coalition. We are not vain and welcome, because we believe that this amendment is definitely correcting the text of this law. Furthermore, in the same article, paragraph 1 point 4, which we have not submitted to the amendment, but we believe that this condition should be deleted for reasons that it will not be possible to appreciate. It is completely disputed that someone in advance can determine whether a person, who is in the process of naming is safe and fair, will perform the affairs of a public notary. That is why I feel that this attitude should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53762	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. Mrs. Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53763	This is one of the key provisions that we attack in this bill. We don't know, that's what I asked in the principle debate, which is why it wasn't considered that way for the appointment of public notebooks to be left to the National Assembly. In this situation, we would have a much more transparent process of choice than this, when this bill gives enormous powers to the minister to regulate all important issues for public notaries, which brings this profession into a position to be directly subject to the executive authority. What are the powers of the minister through this law I will only say in a few sentences. They are so wide-ranging that the minister himself determines the number of public places, that he even determines the working time of the notebooks, which we believe absolutely does not have any need, it should be done by a public record chamber. Then, his great powers with regard to appointments. Not to mention that he is solely in charge of the appointment of the committee in question, that he is solely in charge of the appointment of the competition commission, and that neither today nor today, how long it has been since the principled debate, we do not know who the members of the competition commission are. The bill states that the competition commission has three members. What three members? That's what I asked, and I didn't get an answer. I think it's a very important question and we need to get an answer. Furthermore, not to mention the powers of the ministry itself, which directly subordinates the chamber to its influence. The ministry is also responsible for determining the amount of tariff. These are issues that should not fall within the scope or part-time work of the minister, or ministry. This should be left to the public notation chamber, if we want them to perform their duty in a proper manner. The bill also lacks sufficient emphasis on the independence of the public record service. We believe that there are provisions that point to the overemphasised dependence of this public service, or profession, on the executive authority and, of course, it is not good. We have no ambition to believe that this amendment of ours will be accepted, because it completely changes this text of the bill, but by submitting such an amendment, we just want to point out our position not to agree with such broad powers as the minister has in terms of what is most important, what is regulated by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53764	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 31st Amendment. Mrs. Radovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53765	I think that, for reasons of resolution, it was definitely necessary to enter a point that said that a public notary is being resolved if its business relations or the way in which these transactions are conducted seriously endanger the interests of the parties. This proposal was foreseen in the draft text of the law which worked by the working group and I see no reason why he was left out of this text of the law, and what we got as an explanation of our amendment by the government is totally unacceptable. It is said that the Government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the solution proposed by the amendment is already contained in the provision of Article 31(1) point (7). Point 7 says – if he performs tasks that are incompatible with the reputation and dignity of a public notary. I think it's two completely different things, and this amendment deserved to be accepted, because it would further specify this member, and certainly would not stand down, would not violate the whole of the member.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53766	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53767	Ladies and gentlemen, in your first position in article 37, you are predicting that his assistant, who is listed in the register of public notebooks, may work in the public notebook office. Also, you predict that this directory runs the chamber. With the amendment to this position, I asked that the word "comora" be replaced by "ministration". The explanation is simple – a notary function should be performed in courts and administrations of units of local self-government, and the whole procedure from appointment to resolution, as well as the management of the assistant directory should be with the competent ministry. But it's not enough for you to have a ministry that is professionally and equipped to run these jobs, but you suggest that it works in this case chamber as a trusted business. The lawyer's chamber must be decommissioned in the matter of the management of a public notary's assistant for the reason the public notebook is appointed by the Ministry, so it is logical that his assistant is appointed by the same ministry. That's why I think this proposal is a better solution than it was offered.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53768	The 39th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53769	We felt that a new position should be added behind Article 2, which is that approved places for public notary assistants are filled in on the basis of competitions that are called and carried out by the chamber. If we read Article 39, more precisely paragraphs 1 and 2, then it is not clear how these places are filled when the Ministry approves the opening and therefore this amendment has the sole intention of precision of this member of the law, and no disturbance of the whole. I don't see why he wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53770	Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53771	The amendment shall be submitted to Article 49 which shall refer to the performers of the duty of the public notary. In the opinion of us from the SRS, this is another misunderstanding that can lead to error if this member happens and applies. Approximatelyly, it reads - if the public register dies, is suspended in accordance with this law, deprived of business capacity, deprived of status or disowning the performance of a public notary function, the chamber will, under official duty, determine the performer of duties between neighbouring public notebooks etc. Five-six views talk about it. The official of the public notebook shall carry out public records on his behalf, for his own account, a lot in one member of the things that may be misused. That is why I have submitted an amendment to this article that is clear and loud - Article 49 is deleted. To avoid any doubt, this amendment is clear. The amendment was submitted for the reason it is not an SRS position, because the notation function should be performed in courts and administrative units of local self-government, not as private business. Our concept is different – define and distinguish what anyone does, what the municipality does, what the courts do, what lawyers do, etc. Coli Krasic put it in detail and listed these functions, one part of these functions for the public, and when we add it all together and look at it, we see that the notebook will perform about 80 acts and things and should work 24 hours if needed. However, this one notary will not be able to do all of this in quality, and in particular, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, if we consider everything in which country we live, can they be trusted at this time, in this kind of Serbia and in this situation, in this society, and all of this under this government? The fairy-tale reform of the judiciary, we've heard this in the last half of the year and in the press and in the papers, about the success of the reforms. Dear citizens, you do not trust this authority either, and you will judge whether this law is good because in the day of the vote it will be gathered somehow 126. I don't want to talk anymore. I'm just running out of time. As far as my amendment is concerned, citizens will soon decide on the speed of law-making and everything that will be applied after the law is passed, and we know in advance that it will not be possible to do so. So, this is all about something that someone imposes, that we have to adopt laws, that we have to adapt many laws to European employers, and we are aware of witnesses, especially we here in the Assembly, that many of the laws we have passed in a hurry cannot be applied in this environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53772	The 49th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Goran Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53773	Articles 25 to 51. The proposal for a law on public records deals with public notation entities, and thus, among other things, it is stated that the public notary in its work can be assisted by a public intern, a public notary assistant and administrative staff of a public notary. As we know, under certain circumstances and for a certain period of time, it may be replaced by a public secretary and a public notary. My amendment also applies to these two last entities, to the public notary and to the public notary who, in accordance with the provisions of this bill, have all the rights and obligations of the public notary. In particular, it is Article 50, whose erasure I have suggested, and for this erasure there are at least two relevant reasons that I will try to explain briefly, because this article is a little longer so that I don't read it in general, I will try to explain what it is. In fact, the first reason I suggest erasing is that almost all the views of this member are already contained in the previous members. In particular, Articles 46, 47 and 48 in the case of a public secretary, i.e. Article 49, in the case of a public notary. Also, the provisions dealing with the disciplinary responsibility of these entities are mentioned in the later articles from 149 to 164, so the logical conclusion is that Article 50 only re-evaluates something that already exists elsewhere in other members. This only makes the application of this law difficult in practice, rather than making its application unequivocal, simple and easy to apply. That's the first technical reason I suggested erasing. The second one is much more significant and is contained in the position of Article 3 50, where it is said that a public secretary, i.e. an employee of a duty, has the authority to make public records and to issue corrections, transcripts and copies, and they are obliged to state their exact name and last name and in what capacity they act. This very fact, in which they are acting, hides the greatest trap that a public notebook can come into knowingly or unconsciously. In fact, the public notary is essentially an expert in the field of law that needs to do a job in the service of public confidence, in this case in the formed public record office. This implies that, in addition to the professional, the public notebook has to possess certain ethical and axiological features of a person and when a public notary would possess it, it would not be controversial, but what if a public notary does not possess any of these characteristics? Then his job can be born into something else, so instead of being a good and successful notebook, he can become a good and successful private entrepreneur. It's something that the SRS has invested more amendments against. We believe that the release of these corrections, transcriptions and copies should continue to be carried out where they have been done so far, which means in courts and units of local self-government, especially since 2000, you know yourself that there are a lot of gods, friends, relatives and other DOS personnel employed, so you can't be excused for not having enough people. In addition to this, the fact that there would be no adequate control of public opinion in the first period of work, because this notation has not existed in us for 60 years, existed only during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, from 1930 to 1941, and the people in some way gave up this public notary institution, which means that it would take a certain period for people to get used to it again. Let's not reopen what Mr. Jojic said again, the question of whether it's a constitutional category at all, even us MPs who are not lawyers, when we read the Serbian Constitution, we'll see that there's no category of public notary anywhere, which means that this is a questionable category and that we should be careful in applying this institution. That's why we suggested erasing the 50th in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53774	The 53rd amendment includes MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 54th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21-nation MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 57th Amendment together includes MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I am aware that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 58, the amendment is submitted by Parliamentarian Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 58th Amendment are joint MPs Judita Popovic, Bojan Djuric and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I am aware that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Amendment to Article 59 have been tabled by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53775	Just for a little while. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53776	I find that the amendment has been accepted by the Proposer. National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I am aware that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 76th amendment was submitted by a group of 21-nation MPs from the Progressive Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 82nd Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53777	I want to thank the Ministry and the Government for accepting the four amendments of the seven that I submitted to the public records law. I believe that by accepting these amendments, a good bill will be even better. This is about an amendment to Article 82. The draft law and I must say that this article in paragraph 1 is defined in particular that in the form of a public record, it is said that all acts: agreements on property relations between spouses, agreements on property relations between out-of-marry partners, agreements on the share of joint assets of spouses and out-of-marriage partners, legal maintenance agreements, in accordance with the law of contracts on the availability of immovableities of persons who are commercially incompetent, etc. I suggested that special treatment also have legal dealings on the availability of immovable assets that take on persons with special needs. This is precisely because the adoption of the proposed amendment would particularly point out that persons with special needs should enjoy special attention and help in taking legal action on the availability of immovable property. I don't think this supplement of an 82nd can hurt. However, even if accepted and not accepted, it is a duty to make up in the form of a public record, so I felt it was necessary to point out in particular that when it comes to the availability of immovable assets that take on persons with special needs, it should also be underlined.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53778	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The word has Mrs. Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53779	We have amended that the form of a public notary must have a record from the founding assembly and other assembly of an open company, with these words being deleted -- which has more than a hundred shareholders. I think that's how a member of the law is precise, because the form of the public-book record gives the record of the Assembly of the shareholders' society the power of the public documents. Because the notary guarantees not only accuracy, but also the legality of the content itself. This protects, in our opinion, not only shareholders, but also the trusts of the company, reduces the possibility of abuse of the congregation’s leadership and the possibility of potential disputes related to congregation decisions. If this amendment is not accepted, and it is estimated that it will not, space is left for abuses, so that the company can avoid the control of the legality of the work of the assembly, for example, by organising that the assembly of the stock company instead of 100 shareholders attends 99. Then he's already got a chance to avoid this mandatory form, which we don't think is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53780	The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to article 103. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 108th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 108th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. Mrs. Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53781	We have made the amendment because we believe it is very important that all public notebooks from the territory of the Republic of Serbia are mandatory members of the Chamber. If we look at a member who regulates what the Chamber is doing, then it's a logical solution. If it is said that the Chamber makes decisions which are mandatory for public notaries, if it is said that the Chamber is to be kept responsible for the professional completion of all public notebooks, if it is said that the Chamber is to organise expert seminars, consultations and expert meetings of public notaries and if at the same time we see the provision of Article 31 paragraph 6) which provides that the public notary is to be resolved if it has not attended seminars or other expert meetings, other forms of mandatory improvement of the public notary designated by the Chamber, then it is very logical for us to accept this amendment, because there is no better way for it to find out what it is that the public notation chamber itself organises and what the activities it conducts, if it is a member. This amendment is also closely related to the amendment that we have submitted to Article 2, where we have predicted that the public record profession is a free profession and is precisely one of the main specificities of this obligation to bring together free professionals. That is why we have proposed this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53782	On Article 118, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 123rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudici Milica Radovic. Here you go, Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53783	There's just one more thing I'd like to say about article 119 you've read, if I may. If the Government accepted this amendment, which we had provided for the Chamber to become and become a first-degree disciplinary body, then it was also necessary to intervene in the matter where a disciplinary commission was designated as a second-degree body. Therefore, I believe simply that we would not have to intervene in the law itself later, that amendment should have been accepted, if you had already accepted a solution. When it comes to Article 123, I wouldn't be too long here, it's the same explanation as where I said that, in our opinion, all public notebooks should be members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53784	National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic, Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic submitted to the 127th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53785	Here's what I'm talking about. Here it is said, in Article 127 – the disciplinary commission is a first-degree or second-degree body in a disciplinary procedure. Since our amendment has already been accepted as a member, it seems to me, 118, where we have predicted that the public record chamber is a first-degree organ, then we consider it logical to accept this one, where the disciplinary commission is supposed to be a second-degree body. It's simple, it's logical.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53786	Members of the 139th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to article 143. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53787	In Article 25. The proposal for a law on public records has been defined as the conditions for the appointment of a public register. Among other things, it is required to pass a judicial exam, a public notary exam and to have at least five years of working experience in the legal profession after a judicial examination has been passed. My amendment is that instead of "a public exam can be passed by a person who has completed a law school and has at least two years of working experience in legal affairs in a public office, court or a lawyer, or three years of working experience in other jobs", he added a few more words "that a public record exam can be passed by a person who has completed a law school, has passed a judicial exam and who has worked at least two years on legal affairs in a public office, justice or a lawyer's office, or three years in other legal affairs," he said. We can reason on whether a judicial exam should be passed in order, then a public record exam. I find that useful. Because public record work is very important, and it would be good for all those who claim to be notebooks today-to-morrow who want to pass that exam to have a judicial exam, I think, before they take a public record exam. He can do it in another order - the public record and the jurisprudence. But I believe that when a person who has a previous judicial exam is subject to a public record exam, it will be absolutely different and deeper to understand the essence of the legal system and everything else, which can contribute to a better quality of doing this work, which is very important for the whole country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53788	National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic, Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic submitted to the 145th amendment. Mrs. Radovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53789	This amendment is of a technical nature. We believe that it introduces a more precise definition and distinction between the oral and written part of the public record exam, because this is how it turns out that there is no excessive difference. We believe that only practical knowledge should be checked in the written part of the examination and that the oral part of the examination should be checked for the knowledge of the legal institutes in relation to public record work.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53790	National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted the 146th amendment. Does anyone want a word? He's got Mrs. Radovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53791	The text of the law makes it unclear why the commission must have six members if one candidate is checked and questioned by three members? I don't see any reason for this definition?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53792	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic submitted the amendment together to Article 173. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 177th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has the word Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53793	We believe that the biggest problem of this law is just lying in transitional and final provisions. We are not clear, and so far we have not received an answer to the question – why did this decision be followed to appoint 100 public notebooks in the first cycle, if we know that public places are determined on the basis of the criteria of the territory of the basic courts? Also, if we know that these basic courts in Serbia today have 34, why predict a solution that is predicted by 100 public notebooks? Of course, we see here the possibility of a great abuse by the one responsible for the appointment of public notebooks, for the simple reason that we believe there is no reason for haste. Because if I'm not mistaken, this law goes into effect on July 1st, 2012. Why don't you form a public record chamber first, then execute the appointment of the remaining public notebooks? I specifically ask this as a question, because it is unclear from the very text of the law how it is done at all, what are the criteria and what criteria on the basis of which the minister appoints public notaries? Because this issue is dedicated to only five members, if I am not mistaken, from 25-30, where only one member's position provides that success will be taken into account in the public record exam, the judicial exam and the results of the work so far. We simply believe that there is too much arbitraryness in decision making. I'm afraid there's no similar situation here that we've had in reelection of judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53794	Parliamentarians Miroslav Petkovic, Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53795	This is the question I also asked in the principle debate – what are the members of the competition committee? It's only been defined that the competition committee is composed of three members, but it's not written anywhere and it's nowhere to be determined which three members are? In some legislation, in countries that have a long public record tradition, the competition commission makes judges of the highest court cases in the state, as well as professors of law schools. That's exactly why our amendment goes that way. We predicted that members of the competition commission would be: one member of the examination committee, one member of the High Council of the judiciary and one judge of the Supreme Cassation Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53796	Mrs. Malovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53797	The composition of the commission was in a similar form as you suggested by the amendment in the draft law addressed to the Government of the Ministry of Justice. However, in the opinion of the Legislative Secretariat, we have been given the view that it cannot legally determine the composition of the commission. I fully agree with you that it should be the eminent lawyers from these institutions, and if I am in a position to appoint a commission, it will be exactly like that. As for the amendment relating to the number of first notebooks to form a public register, that would always be disputable. Whatever number you suggest might be someone's opinion if it was big or small. I agree, we can scale up whether 100 is appropriate, whether 34 is relevant, etc. Your logic was that it was according to the number of basic courts, and on the other hand, I can answer that the territory of one basic court makes more municipalities, so maybe there should be a larger number in that first issue. The conditions to be used in the appointment and these first notebooks refer to any other regular designation procedure that will be by the public record chamber, so that we will try to respect it, and you will naturally be able to see if we did it for real or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53798	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53799	Just for a little while. You don't close the door with any further appointments by appointing the first 34 public notebooks. I just wanted to say that it would be much more transparent at this point to go after someone or take a few fewer designated public notebooks, while all the bodies that should be defined in the public record association itself, or organisation, are not formed, because I don't really see any reason to rush. If you now appoint the first hundred public notebooks, and the law is only starting to apply since July 2012, I see no reason why you assume so much authority on yourself, especially with regard to appointments, what is practically the most sensitive in this bill. I really don't see the reason, and of course, I don't see the reason why it's the number table. Why did I suggest 34? It's the only criterion that led me to this kind of thing based on the very text of the law, because you said that public places are determined on the basis of the criteria of the territory of the basic courts. So you're the one who predicted basic courts. Whether there are one, two or more municipalities, that's what you predicted by reform, or by a network of courts. I only respect what is now in force.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53800	Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 180th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Petar Jojic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53801	I'd just like to ask the secretary to explain - will the hundred registered notebooks be reduced by the hundred judges and as long as one notary is provided in the office, will it be reduced by three or four officers in court? What's the problem here? This is where the notebooks are paid and all the costs are borne by the citizens. When is that, do we want a notebook? We will. Shall we have a smaller number of judges? In England, 1,629 judges you have. He's got a notebook service. I'm just asking, I'm sorry, please, we're at the end -- are we going to have a smaller number of judges when we introduce a notary service?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53802	Mrs. Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53803	We really don't see why it takes 15 months to pass from the day of entry into force of this law to bring in a public note. It's not such a complicated and complex job. I think he can be brought in a lot sooner. Now we're going to be in a very strange situation, that within a year of the entry into force of this law we're going to have a total of the first hundred public notebooks, that we're not actually going to have a public note tariff. So I just don't understand why I've been waiting 15 months. During that time, a whole new set of judicial laws can be established, not a regulation like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53804	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Mrs. Milica Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53805	We have submitted this amendment for the reason that we felt that it was necessary to specify Article 181 and until it was passed on to the application of this law that a legal vacuum should not be left in the text of the law, but should be specified. The amendment aims to specify that contracts on the availability of immovable property within a period of up to two years from the date of application of this law may constitute, i.e. to give to the court and to other state bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-13-0.u53806	On Article 182, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Let me thank Mrs. Minister and her associates for their work. Please, our Minister is here tomorrow. There'll be an opportunity to talk. Today's work evidently resulted in competent suggestions for which the promoter had understanding, which is seen in a significant number of amendments adopted. Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
