ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57758	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I would like to conclude that the session is attended by 124 MPs, and in order to accurately determine the number of present in the hall, please insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic system. As we determine the quorum allow, honourable MPs, to inform you that a group of wolves from the municipality of Zitiste and Nova Crnja attends a part of today's work on the gallery. These are our dear guests. He will follow part of our engagement today from the gallery of the large hall and allow me to read their names: Ivan Adamov, Jelena Toskov, Miodrag Zelelac, Sanja Bjeletić, Milica Volarov, Željka Popov, Tamara Cvetić, Isabela Bajus, Patrick Kerestur, Shandor Šerban, Neda Stričević, Eleanor Cala, Olivera Aleksic, Ana Crvenkovski, Jelena Ećim, Sara Šuković, Isidora Rapapic, Dragoljub Grbić, Liliana Grbić, Miomir Savic and Jelena Đurić. Then the winners of the "Vuk Karadzic" diploma from the municipality of Zitište are present, and they were obviously our dear guests from Nova Montenegro. I now read the guests from Žitište: Dejan Bajat, Jelena Zubac, Zorana Lojpur, Alexa Kasalović, Sebastian Cirisan, Luka Roshu, Simona Petrovic, Jon Stefan Kitarescu, David Samuel Martin, Lidija Mihajlović, Gabriela Chapo, Veljko Mošorinski, Ivana Žigić, Ana Spasojevic, Ognje Varićak, Jovana Mileusnic, Anja Guteša, Klaudija Koso and Mr Svetlana Maja Babić. Let's give them a round of applause. I figure there's 127 of us in the O.R., and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of National MP Milica Radovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we are moving to a decision and I am voting on the draft law on young people, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, 123 voted in favour of the bill. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since we accepted the bill in principle, before moving to the amendment decision, I remind you that MPs Meho Omerović, Munir Poturak, Bajram Šehovic, pulled the amendments together in writing. 17 and 22. It's a bill of law. An integral part of the Bill's proposal became amendments of the People's MPs: Gordana Rajkov to Article 9, together with Elvira Kovac, Balinta Pastor, Lasla Varge, Arpad Fremond to Article 10; jointly Meko Omerović, Munir Poturk, Bajram Šehović to Article 12; Aleksandra Pejčić to Article 23; jointly Donke Banović, Milice Vojić-Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic and National MP Aleksandr Martinović in the same text as Article 23, as well as the amendment of the Youth and Sports Committee to Article 9. I also find that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: together with Nenada Canka, Bojana Kostreša, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic to Article 1, as well as Donka Banovic to Article 2. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Dusanka Plecevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 2nd amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Elvira Kovacač, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, four for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, four for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the National Assembly session. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs for the amendment, 109 voted, so I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted the title above Article 6 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, three voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs no one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs no one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the National Assembly session. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment, which adds a new title and a new member of the 13th, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic submitted the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the National Assembly session. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 114 for. The amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Đuric, Marija Bulgarian and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, six voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The National MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic put together the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 119 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs voted six. The amendment was not accepted. On the 16th amendment, with the correction, the MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond together submitted. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment, with a correction, at the National Assembly session. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs voted 114. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric, Marija Bulgarian and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic and MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prost-Serbian group and joint MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The National MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted to the same text by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia and MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric, Marija Bulgarian and Kenan Hajdarevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Both MPs Bojan Djuric, Marija Bulgarianic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 24th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment, added by a new member of the 25th, was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly did not accept the amendment The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, six are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting on a vote for the Bill of Youth, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 125 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill of Youth. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Civilian Income Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 123 are in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Article 5 of the amendment was brought together by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, the vote was five. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Article 6 of the amendment was brought together by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, four voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 71st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 74th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. Dear Members of the People, I would just like to remind you that I have scheduled the beginning of the next session in 15.00 hours. Obviously, we're going to be late for the beginning of this session. It will begin immediately after the vote is completed. Thank you. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Republic of Republic Administrative Taxes Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, he voted 121. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of MP Jelena Trivan to members 27 and 28. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, four voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by the MPs Natasa Micic, Bojan Đuric, Ivan Andric and Judit Popovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 21st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Article 24 of the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by the MPs Natasa Micic, Bojan Đuric, Judita Popovic and Marija Bulgarcic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 37. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Micic, Bojan Đuric, Judita Popovica and Marija Bulgarianic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 40th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 49th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 52nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 63rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. We'll have to determine the quorum and repeat the vote. You can put the cards on. We are again pleading on the amendment to article 65, which was submitted by the Verse of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 126 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 71st amendment. Let's plead it out, please. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 72nd amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted the amendment to Article 73. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 73rd amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 74th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 126 MPs, 124 voted for the bill in general. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. We move on to the proposal for a law on giving the guarantee to the Republic of Serbia the benefit of Banca Intesa AD Belgrade, "Societ General" Serbia a.d. Belgrade, "Hypo-alpe-adria banka.d" Beogard, "Erste banka.d." Novi Sad, "Comercial Banka" a.d. Belgrade and "Unicredit Banka" Serbia a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbiagas" Novi Sad, in general. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3), point 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides on laws governing public borrowing, most of the votes of all MPs. Since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, pursuant to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will only be in general on this bill. Since the proposal for a law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of publication, it is necessary that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 160(4). The Rules of Procedure shall, first of all, decide whether there are particularly reasonable reasons for this. I remind you it's Article 5. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier, only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for this law to take effect earlier than the eighth day of publication. I am putting to the vote the bill on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banca Intesa AD Belgrade, "Societ General" Serbia a.d. Belgrade, "Hypo-alpe-adria banka.d" Beogard, "Erste banka.d." Novi Sad, "Comercial Banka.d. Belgrade and "Unicredit Bank" Serbia a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Bill on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banca Intesa AD Belgrade, "Societ General" Serbia a.d. Belgrade, "Hypo-alpe-adria banka.d" Beogaard, "Erste banka.d." Novi Sad, "Comercial Banka" a.d. Belgrade and "Unicredit Banka" Serbia a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbiagas" Novi Sad. We move to a vote on the draft laws on the approval of international contracts, i.e. agreements (points 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10). 11th agenda) I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. I put to the vote – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the Regulation of the Long Republic of Albania according to the Republic of Serbia Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on Saradication in the area of fighting crime Please state our position. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Armenia on the visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports Please state our name. Of the 127 MPs, 126 MPs voted for this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Trade Accords between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Kuwait Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting on the vote on the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement of Saradium in the area of culture of higher education between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco, and I would like to make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I would like to put on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH in the Area, Education, Culture and Sports, please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I understand we've passed the bill. We move on to a declaration of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Organization of the North Atlantic Security Pact, Information and the Code of Procedure Please enter into our statement. Of 127 MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. We move to the 12th point of the Proposal for a DECISION ON ORGANISATION AND THE WORK OF THE SERVICE OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY I am putting to the vote the proposal for this decision of the organisation on the work of the National Assembly, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 125 voted in favour of the motion for a decision. I find that we have accepted the motion for a decision in principle, and pursuant to Article 193, in accordance with Article 160(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we move on to a decision on amendments. On Chapter 1 of point 2 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter 4 of the 12th Amendment, MP Petar Jojic submitted. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter 4 of the 13th Amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric has tabled an amendment proposing that point 15a be added to Chapter 4. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. At point 16, the amendment with the correction was filed by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment in the basic text and the correction was not declared. I'm putting the amendment to the vote with the correction. Of 127 MPs, 119 for. The amendment has been accepted. At point 16, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, six for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter 5, paragraph 20 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Verica Radeta. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On Chapter 7 of the 22nd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Gordana Komic and Branko Ruzic submitted. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. I'm asking you to plead as well. Of the 127 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. At point 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. On item 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 121 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the organisation and operation of the National Assembly Service, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted yes. I find that we have adopted a proposal for a decision on the organisation and operation of the National Assembly Service. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE CONTROL OF CRIME SANCS After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Of the 127 MPs, 119 voted in favour. I find that we have adopted a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON A DECISION AND THE NAME OF THE MEMBER STATES AND THE Deputy MEMBER STATES OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC COMMUNITY As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the RIK members. I would like to put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission, please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 127 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search, I remind you before I move to the decision that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please plead. Of the 127 MPs, 127 voted in favour of the proposal. I agree that we have reached a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly carried out a single search, before the transition to a decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of deputies and members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please plead. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the proposal. I agree that we have reached a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of deputies and members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly conclude the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. (The session is closed at 3:15 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57759	The sixth extraordinary session of July 5, 2011 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 3:15 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert the cards into the e-system MPs. I find that there are 126 of us who have put our cards in the electronic system, and obviously there are more of us, and there are conditions to work. Whether one of the presidents or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Mr Boris Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57761	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ask the question to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic, Home Affairs Minister, Mr Dacic and KIM Minister, Mr Bogdanovic - what the state has done to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who were arrested on June 28th at Vidovdan in Gazimestan, who have been brutally bullied and beaten, and what is the case of Slavko Dordan, who is 23 years old, Mark Rankovic, Goran Bijelaglic and Mark Jeftovic, who are from Kragujevac, and Milos Trickovic, who is from Vlasotin. So, they were arrested by the Cypriot terrorist authorities, only because they wore the marks of the Republic of Serbia, brutally beaten, and here's what happened to Mr. Dordan. He was brutally beaten during his arrest, he was inflicted with severe bodily injuries, his nose was broken, his eyes were bruised, and his body had a lot of bruises. So it was all done by members of the Ship's terrorist authorities when Vidovdan was marked in Gazimestan on June 28th. It's just amazing that the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are silent about it. You see, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a certain agreement with the Shiparian separatists on July 2nd, and already on July 3rd the harassment of citizens of the Republic of Serbia by the Cypriot terrorist authorities began. So they're members of the Rosa terrorist unit, so-called Kosovo police services, for more than an hour on July 3rd, harassed Mr. Stevic of Ugljar, because, imagine, he had on his car the plates of the Republic of Serbia marked by the Republic of Serbia, issued by the Serbian MUP. So the members of the Cypriot separatists stopped him, harassed him, and broke his license plate at the end. So, just one day after it was made for you by a historic agreement between Belgrade and Pristina that represents a factual recognition of KIM's independence. How is it possible for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to remain silent about this act? Let's see what happens next. Since an agreement with separatists has been signed, agreed agreement with separatists with KIM, see what happens to citizens of the Republic of Serbia in KIM. Mr. Gavril Nikolic's identity card, which was issued to him, changed his last name and changed his nationality. His last name now stands for Nikolic, and by nationality, instead of Serbian nationality, he is a Kosovar. So it was also done only two days after an agreement was made between Borko Stefanovic and a representative of Thaci's terrorist and separatist government at KIM. It is interesting to hear what the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the officials mentioned from the start of the issue, are doing to defend the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we can't help but come to an agreement on July 2nd. As MPs, we demand that the government of the Republic of Serbia deliver to us the agreement made between Belgrade and Pristina from July 2nd. It is necessary to carry out our work. If you do not have a written agreement, then provide us with the stenographic notes and all documents related to the agreement that was made on 2 July 2011. It's interesting that July 2nd is agreed to be recognized so-called. Kosovo documents and that on the basis of a ID card issued by the separatist authorities in KIM, people can travel to third countries and across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. How is it possible that the government of the Republic of Serbia has agreed to such a thing? We see that this is where the representatives of the government spoke about the Cyprus case. But what you did not say is that the Republic of Cyprus is issuing ID cards and passports for the entire territory of Cyprus, including the Turkish part of Cyprus. When it comes to Cyprus, which was called here by Borko Stefanovic, it is very interesting to say that only Turkish ships agree in the Turkish port there, the planes from the Turkish part are only Turkish...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57762	Time. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57763	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, same subject. These days, the ruling coalition of the Republic of Serbia transfers DSS to be critical of the authorities and is not based on arguments regarding the relationship between the government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the KIM. If that is not the case, but that the government of the Republic of Serbia is going to recognise Kosovo's independence, I will remind the citizens of Serbia, and especially you from the authorities to the next. In a bountiful preservation of KIM within the Republic of Serbia, you accepted Mission Eulex as status neutral, although you knew that he would implement Ahtisaari's plan and create an independent Kosovo. You accepted the Belgrade-Ban Ki Moon agreement, presented it to Serbian citizens as a diplomatic victory for Belgrade, aware that Pristina will never accept it. You secretly signed a police agreement with Eulex, whose contents are not known today. You have deceived us that the EU and KIM are two separate issues, and today it is quite certain that they are tied up. You cut the Republic of Serbia's budget by almost 50% compared to 2008. You withdrew your Security Council resolution, handed over the imposed resolution to Brussels and accepted dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina on good neighbourly relations. You have presented the negotiations as the creation of a better life for all citizens of KIM, especially for Serbs. You believe that negotiations have reached a solution to the practical problems of the people at KIM, primarily for Serbs south of Iber. So, gentlemen, you divided the Serbs south of Iber and the Serbs north of Iber. I don't think that's the case when Serbs are south of Ibra, but I'm sure that's the solution you've recognised independent Kosovo. You admitted independence and introduced visas for the citizens of KIM. The certificate is nothing more than a visa to enter the territory of the Republic of Serbia, only the difference that to enter other countries needs a passport, the way anyone owns it, and for the entry of the citizens of KIM into the Republic of Serbia a personal map of the Republic of Kosovo. Kosovo tables that will be able to be used are not UNMIK tables. These are the plates of the Republic of Kosovo. Whose traffic permits are certified by the seal of the Republic of Kosovo, and on the seal of the Republic of Kosovo stands the coat of arms of the Republic of Kosovo? Documents such as ID cards, traffic permits and driver's licenses, on which you have identified identity, issued certificates, are documents of the Republic of Kosovo, also certified by the seal of the Republic of Kosovo, and on the seal of the coat of arms of the Republic of Kosovo. By agreement, you made it possible for the citizens of KiM to use all the documents and attributes of the statehood of the Republic of Kosovo, leaving Serbs in KIM without their markings, their statehood and even the possibility of ever using them. You, gentlemen, wanted to, did not want to admit, definitely recognised Kosovo. In crime prevention, so-called Kosovo's state with EULEX in the north of KIM arrests and threatens to arrest Serbs who do not pay customs duties in Kosovo. The question I want to ask this building today, I asked Mr. Bork Stefanovic, but unfortunately the answer was not given, it was avoided. I'm asking the Department of Justice and the Ministry of Police. Are Serbs at KIM, who do not pay customs so-called. the republics of Kosovo and Serbs fighting for the preservation of Kosovo in the composition of the Republic of Serbia criminals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57764	Thank you. Let me just let you know that we will be working today until the end of the agenda, or we will be working after 18.00 hours, based on Article 87. Miss Maria Bulgarcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57765	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Serbian Prime Minister, Mr Mirk Cvetkovic. In fact, my particular question is what is this government doing about, to say the least, suspicious privatisations whose only results, on the one hand, are social problems, and on the other hand, the unfounded wealth of others? I'd like to explain on one case exactly what happened. A agricultural company called "Podja", located in Vladimirovac, in the municipality of Alibunar, was founded in 1953 and the company was operating as a agricultural good. It was a time-honored company, which worked well. The company later integrates with the PIK "Banatski Karlovci" and also works well. It's been a stable business for a long time, until in 1996 the entire company bought Agroziv from Alibunar. As part of the "Winning" from Vladimirovac, there were the following good ones at the time: warfare and machinery had 930 hectares, 14 combs, 30 tractors, silos were 2,000 wagons at the time, the mixture of livestock was huge and was completely automated, the pig farm at the time was the capacity of about 30,000 passengers, which was very good at the time. The number of workers increased in each season and grew to about 1,000 in the season. The arrival of Agroziv formed the Assembly and the Management Board of the company, elected members and they met on time, voted in final accounts and budgets. Without official decommissioning, Agroziv forms his assembly with his people with his leadership, brings his people to the lead, places them as directors, fires workers, almost all workers eventually fires, owes the original company "Win" huge loans and places its entire assets at the disposal and under banking mortgages without ownership, gives minimum salaries to workers, who were assigned in envelopes and does not pay taxes and contributions to workers of the current "Agroziv". The last director of the company, Pobeda, sells this factory for a million euros to President Agroziva. The president of the company is building, next to Agroziv, a magnificent resort in Alibunar, i.e. in the Girls' well, which costs more than a million euros. What interests the workers and pensioners of this company is how is it possible that the director of Pobeda company will sell the country without paying the workers back the earnings and not making payments? They're also interested in what happened to the actions and shares of this company and what happens to the pensioners of this company? They are also interested in why Agroziv has raised so many loans, and all at the expense of the original company "Posed" and how is it that the state of Serbia is not interested in all of this? We have been dealing with quasi decentralisation for days and other problems that are not so much in the interest of the citizens of this country, and we are not dealing with essential issues. This government is doing absolutely nothing about questionable privatisations. Once again, my question refers specifically to the prime minister of this country, and I would like to hear back exactly what the government is doing on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57766	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that it has been prevented from attending the session of MP Milica Radovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts on the agenda set out in the request of 122 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have also attended today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Predrag Marković, Minister of Culture, Information and Information Society, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society, Predrag Blažević, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society, Tatjana Bojić-Jurić, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society and Nikola Šeatović, adviser at the Ministry of Culture, Information and Information Society. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. You were presented the minutes of the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 14 June 2011. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that, by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Committee, it has been established that none of the Members of the People's Committee has been sent in writing an objection to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 14 June 2011. Please press the corresponding key. Of the 136 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 14 June 2011. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was called upon by 122 MPs, acting in accordance with Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 148 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Sixth Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda, contained in that request. As you could see, for the sixth extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, the following Dn e n e d: 1. Proposal for a law on library information activity, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law on the old and rare library building, which was submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law on mandatory copies of publications submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a Law on Optical Discs, submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, submitted by the Government; 7. A regular annual report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2010, submitted by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, with a proposal for the conclusions of the Justice and Administration Committee of 21 June 2011; 8. Report on the implementation of the Law on the Free Access of Information from Public Meaning and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2010, submitted by the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, with a proposal for the conclusions of the Committee on Culture and Information of 21 April 2011 and a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice and Administration of 21 June 2011; 9. Annual report on the work of the State Auditing Institution for 2010, submitted by the State Auditing Institution, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee from 9 June 2011; 10 June 2011 Annual report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2010, submitted by the Anti-Corruption Agency, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Justice and Administration Committee of 21 June 2011; 11. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the president and members of the Securities Commission, submitted by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly; 12. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group; 13. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group; National MP Gordana Comic, on the basis of Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2(2) and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Library Information Action, Proposal for a Law on Old and Rare Library Building and Proposal for a Law on a Mandatory Example of Publications (ac. 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda); then, a common principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Optical Discs and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System (account). 4th and 5th agenda); Joint Single Search on: Regular Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2010, with a proposal for the Conclusions of the Justice and Administration Committee and the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information From Public Matters and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2010, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Culture and Information and a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice and Administration (pc. 7th and 8th agenda); then, a joint single search on: Annual report on the work of the State Auditing Institution for 2010, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee and the Annual Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2010, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice and Management (ac. 9th and 10th agenda); then, a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision to elect the president and members of the Securities Commission, a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group and a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the United Regions of Serbia. Does the MP, Vice President Gordana Komic, want a word? (No) I am voting on the proposal from Parliament of the People, Gordana Komic. Of the 134 MPs, 126 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57767	Joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Library Information Action, Proposal for a Law on Old and Rare Library Building and Proposal for a Law on a Mandatory Example of Publications. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1, 2 and 3 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to the business groups of approximately the number of MPs of the MPs of the Parliamentary Group, and that: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia, G 17 plus and Together for Shumadija - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjin group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the parliamentary group PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to submit the lists to us by word, or by order of MPs who wish to participate in the debate in a joint principled search on the 1, 2 and 3 points of the agenda, on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I also inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, PUPS MP; MP Zlata Djeric, MP of the NS, MP Mico Rogovic, MP for Serbia, MP Nikola Zutic, MP for the SRS and MP for Gorica Mojovic, MP for the ZES. If any of the other parliamentary groups decide to have the mandate of the debate officer in a joint principled search, please provide us with information on this. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Library Information Action, Proposal for a Law on Old and Rare Library Construction and Proposal for a Law on a Mandatory Example of Publications (15.45 hours). Does the promoter's representative, Predrag Markovic, the culture minister, information and information society, want a word? Please, the word is Minister Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57768	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a great pleasure for me to be able to conduct today a principled search in a united debate on these three laws, because we together contribute to making it visible to what extent these three laws are complementary in this extremely important area. You'll only allow me to briefly remind myself of the reasons for the adoption of these three laws, above all the proposal for a law on library-information activity. Library activity has been governed by the Law on Library Activity since 1994 and 1995 and the adoption of a new law will improve and improve the existing normative framework in library-information activity and allow for the development of libraries in professional terms, as well as the protection and security of libraries in institutional terms. The direct reason for the adoption of a new law is the tendency for existing normative solutions in this area to be brought into line with international, or European standards, and particularly important for a new information environment that has changed significantly compared to the period when the previous law was adopted. Meanwhile, as you know, there is an entire little technological revolution. Also, the law respects the need to encourage the application of these new technologies and library activities, particularly information technology and digitisation, which is not regulated by the applicable law at all. The proposal for a law on library and information activity solves the problems identified by the applicable law, which is not fully in line with the Law on Culture which this National Assembly has adopted and which is intended as a general interest to build a single library information system in all its aspects, i.e. both professional, and organisational, institutional, financial and educational. Finally, this bill regulates the issue of mutual cataloging as a vital institutional and functional form of fulfilling the obligation of full record of everything in our libraries, on the one hand, and the rights of all citizens to unlimited access to information, knowledge and cultural values. As you know, so far, the Law on Library Activity has not provided for the regulation of national standards for public and other types of libraries, and now we get that. Also, new forms of library construction were not envisaged based on new technologies, such as electronic publications distributed on physical carriers and electronic publications distributed on the Internet, containing the internet domains of the Republic of Serbia, combined multimedia publications, computer programs in public use. The law also did not regulate the continuous professional training of employees in library and information activities, as well as the rights and duties of users. By passing this law in a unique manner and in a lastingly existing normative framework, as well as the conditions of resources to perform library-informative activity, this will bring together, based on the national system of mutual catalogueisation, parent functions in library-informative activity, thus creating functional assumptions for the true preservation of what is memory and what is the identity of all of us. In the proposal for a law on old and rare library construction, we introduce this obligation of professional protection of old and rare buildings and are now covered by all owners, these mobile cultural goods, not only libraries and institutions, as it has been so far, but all other owners of old and rare library buildings, for example bookstores, antiques, religious communities, private individuals, because the law's intensity is to provide protection of its own building, regardless of property. As you know, these have been dealt with exclusively by deposit libraries so far. First of all, I think of the National Library of Serbia and the Matica Library of Serbia, and not only was the citizens threatened from the point of view of its categorization, catalogue and making available to citizens, but it was also threatened from the point of view of exports. We didn't have a record, and I have to tell you the information that they highlighted when they signed the Belgrade Declaration of Culture Ministers of Southeast Europe. The fact is that there is a trade of cultural goods from these areas that only at the level of last year, the one that was intercepted in the area of Italy, exceeds the value of the cut-off chain of drug trafficking. ‘If I remind you that this is exclusively a cultural good from this space, then you are absolutely clear that it is the tip of the iceberg and that we have found ourselves in a situation that we can, because we do not have a way of record and adequate protection among all owners but only in deposit libraries, that we have found ourselves in a situation that we can be slowly deprived of our identity without talking about economic value. The law was also introduced from the point of view of the need to encourage the use of new technologies in the area of protection of old and rare library buildings, particularly information technologies and digitisation, which was not foreseen by the cultural goods law, so it was not possible to record and protect them. Finally, I will draw your attention to the appearance of the technical third draft law on mandatory copies of publications because the purpose of this law is to achieve general interest, preservation, records and full availability of the entire publishing production in the Republic of Serbia and in the Serbian language anywhere in the world, as cultural heritage of the zero category for all time and for all technological environments. What's key to the paper is two facts. The first is that it was an outdated provision which obliged ten copies to be delivered to deposit libraries in the case of printed publications, resulting from the existence of more SFRY states and adequate national libraries, i.e. republican libraries that existed. Two things happened. The first is that the one marked by the law to deliver a copy is a printer, not a publisher, and it was not possible to motivate, so we are already in a situation where for a whole series of editions, I am only talking about printed publications in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the National Library has failed to provide a way for all mandatory copies to be in the fund and has had to find extraordinary ways. Secondly, it is now foreseen by the law to be a publisher. Second, after this stimulation, the number of specimens was reduced, or halved. It was a request and a publisher. It was the request of the Council of Europe, and that's where we agreed. More importantly, of these five copies, one goes to the ancient library. During the previous period, we often had to, because there is a need to approve projects within a traditional library, to additionally invest money, to collect either data on books or about authors from a given area, to find themselves in a traditional collection, because it turns out that a whole series of local communities do not have a foundation of their libraries of the basic building that was created in that space and is necessary to study the different levels of cultural development of that space. Now, one copy goes to the collection, goes to a library in whose area is printed or from whose area is the publisher or author. This now allows us not to be affected by what happened over the years. Now, even when handing over a mandatory copy for a printed publication, it is necessary to first submit a copy that is digitized, in order not to come into the situation that, if we were to enable citizens, this is solely because of users who are unable to search in a simple, fast and accessible way, electronic what has been published in the previous years because even now, when the technology made it possible, we did not have an electronic copy, which is otherwise necessary to access the preparation for the press at all. Now it is mandatory, and of course it is mandatory when it comes to such publications or works, I hope that it will not confuse you in this law, why the works and publications differ when it comes to electronic editions. The difference is according to international standards. Let me give you an example, one publication can contain more works. One compact disc can contain 10 films, for example. It is essential that there be a mark on each individual part of the publication so that it can be searched and found. So it's not based on publications, but on works and hence, there's this difference that's going to have to be seen here. This is what a classic law presentation would look like. As you know, I've had a chance to hear it from this second position many times. Dear People's MPs, there are much simpler and more important reasons to pass these three laws. They concern the way in which each of you, independent of political belonging, I believe he knows that jobs must be done in Serbia. If we're citizens' money, the state doesn't have its own money, it only has our citizens' money, it's invested for years. We have now managed to conclude, to create technological preconditions for the most modern library in the Balkans, the National Library of Serbia. If for this, I will give you the information, from 2007 to 24 May, when we managed to finish – 429,966,563,19 dinars, there is no more urgent reason, not this formal legal, but the real reason for the urgency to round up something that we have invested in together, and as regards all of us, all of us users, of course, concerns the future of our children. It's not enough to build something. It's necessary to equip technology, and it's happening right now. This assembly, thanks to your willingness to work during the summer and for that I thank you, will create a prerequisite for putting all of this into operation. In the meantime, as you know, books are also needed and we found a way to get out of the same amount of money that the budget provides, this time the libraries will get three times as many books as last year. That's what we really end up with. I know that every single one of you knows that there's nothing worse than unfinished business. I haven't done a single job in my life myself. As you know, every fool has found it appropriate for us to honor it. So, we have to finish our jobs and teach to be a citizen. At the same time, I know as well as you do that there is material and immaterial. This is the area in which we with three laws that are complementary, so we propose them together and that is why we are rushing, as is said in our people – what we can do in the autumn, do tonight. Since September, we are in a hurry to make sure everything is in place and that everything is in the interest of the citizens. I thank you for your willingness to support this kind of law. These are not laws that have been prepared now, nor prepared in haste, these are laws that have been prepared, on the one hand, by experts in previous years, and on the other hand, by practice. You should all know, people are the most important thing. People in libraries are all previous years, a whole series of things that weren't foreseen by law, they worked hard, they found ways, often without money, and I know every library in Serbia, I've been everywhere and I know what people have done to preserve something and to reach every reader, and even one that's called today, an unattainable reader. It is up to us now that based on their practice, based on international standards and on the efforts of experts, I also thank once again the ministry team that worked on this and the team from the National Library of Serbia, that we all get a completed, defined one area together, because it is not an area in which we need to dispute in any way, unless we are unserious. Thank you again for certainly not being insecure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57769	Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jelena Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57770	Dear fellow ministers, I'm glad we have three cultural laws on the agenda today, and I'm glad we can talk. I'll remind you that after a long time, we've brought the so-called so-called "supervised." the roof law on culture. But as the word itself says, it is roofing and it implies that different areas are defined in detail. The minister is right that there was a great requirement of the profession, to define first and foremost the area of library and library work, and to comply with the demands of modern time and what modern information technologies bring. That's why one of these laws, unlike the previous version, is called the library-information law. It's not just a matter of form and title, it's a question of a whole new concept and understanding of the area of library activity. This law implies that it is an activity that affects and in general informs citizens, which is tasked with enabling access to information of public importance, which is contained in books, to monitor new information technologies and in an adequate way to archive the construction that is now in some new media and which is likely to advance further in the future. These laws should respond to the demand of today’s time, as well as to provide for the needs of the information society to meet and what are the needs of libraries, so that they can meet these requirements. I think it's very important that this country has completed a major and historic project to build the National Library and renovate it. I think it is much more important than that, that we legally and fundamentally help to help the library to be built, to preserve Serbia's cultural treasure, to archive, to process, to exchange, and to present it in an adequate manner. I think our problem was never that we didn't have cultural treasures, that we were a people without the past, tradition and culture, but that we were a people who didn't always know how to protect what the previous generations were saying, nor could he present it. In that sense, it is a problem that we have not until the adoption of this law had conditions for the creation of a common information system, which would process and collect all editions. It would be a kind of insight into the cultural heritage of this people. That is why these efforts by the Ministry of Culture really need to be seen and thus welcomed. It is very important, when we talk about a law which the minister called modestly technical, it is not a mandatory example law, that we are aware of how much this obligation to give a mandatory specimen has made today as Serbia we have archived all written treasures and how much they will do in the future, especially those of the poorer local traditional libraries, to come up with examples that they have not had so far, and they have referred to their local environment or people from that environment. Both small, poor, and remote parts of Serbia have the right to culture, they have the right to fight against oblivion. In particular, they have the right to libraries and a written word. I think that time will only show how modern these three laws, which are seemingly technical, will change the area of library and how much it will change the way they work now, and how modern the understanding of the legislator, above all, when we talk about the old and rare library building, and how much I think about one new way of looking, where no matter who owns a rare library building, an old and valuable book, that all of this is understood by the legislator as the unique cultural treasure of this people and this country, and that in such a way it must be processed, preserved, preserved, preserved and evaluated. I am also on the Committee on Culture and Information, and today we want to welcome to the citizens of Serbia the opportunity for every individual who owns an old and rare book to have the opportunity to help the state preserve this book, to evaluate this book, and on the other hand to have the opportunity to put it in a unique information system and to have a review of its cultural treasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57771	Five minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57772	With thanks to the Ministry of Culture, today we have the opportunity to discuss all MPs to vote in favour of the proposed three laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57773	Thank you. Anyone else from the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ) Whether the president or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak, together with the apology of MP Svetlana Stojanovic, who has been authorised by the representative of the DSS Group – Vojislav Kostunica, and I did not read the list of MPs who are authorised by the representatives. The People's Messenger Balint Pastor has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57774	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, first I would like to say a few sentences about the procedure itself. I don't think it's a good idea for the government to file these laws on an emergency procedure. I don't think it's because, according to my estimates, there are very few of those MPs who understand the library's work. Simply taking into account the fact that these bill proposals arrived on Thursday afternoon, and today is Tuesday, you will have to admit that there was simply no time and opportunity, an opportunity to ask for an opinion, proposals from the professional public. I believe that you took into account the opinion of the professional public when you were working on this bill and we know that you've been working on these proposals for a very long time. The work began before your term as Minister of Culture, but regardless of the fact, I think that MPs who take their duties seriously and their obligations as MPs should demand the opinion of the expert public on all draft laws. This was not possible on this occasion and we were denied this expert public assistance, so we were able to assess according to our unprofessional knowledge how significant these draft laws are, or how adequate the solutions provided for in these draft laws are. The bigger the problem, this also refers to the eventual submission of amendments, as I said a little while ago, according to my humble knowledge, there are very few MPs who understand themselves in this area, to the extent that they can submit the amendments on their own and it is simply not good that there was no time and opportunity for consultation. What we as people who don't understand ourselves on average in this activity, we could figure out, is that it's modern law proposals, that these proposals deal in a modern way with these substances that need to be regulated. I can also say this about the proposal for a law on library and informational activity, as well as the proposal for a law on mandatory copies of publications and a bill on the old and rare library structure. It is common to these draft laws that they improve the existing regulatory framework and which may be the most significant in relation to all three draft laws is that they are in line with the new information environment. In the still existing laws that regulate these areas, there is, of course, no word and there can be no word on digitisation, there can be no word on modern technologies and it is very good that these technologies and scientific achievements are taken into account, when we know that cultural laws in this country are averaged every 15 to 20 years. I think on the expert side, I say again with the reservation that I don't understand myself in this area and that I couldn't consult with the experts. It seems to me that on the expert side they can mean a solid and modern framework in the next few years. What is also important, when we talk about the proposal for a law on library-information activity, is the fact that it regulates professional training of employees in library-information activity as well as the rights and duties of users. These were issues that were not regulated, still in force by the Law on Library Activity. It is also very positive that they were taken into account the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. You know, for us, that question has always been of great importance to any bill of law. We always look at whether the powers provided for by the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina are respected, whether they are taken into account the competences provided for in the Statute of the AP Vojvodina and we always find out, with pleasure when we can say that these regulations are respected and that these solutions have been taken over in the Bills. In addition to this topic, once again, we pay a great deal of attention to the proposals for legislation in the fields of education, culture, public information or official use of language. This is whether the bill takes into account whether it respects the competences of national councils, national minorities. Unlike my previous finding that the powers of the AP Vojvodina have been taken into account, I am unfortunately unable to say this in relation to the competences of the national councils of the national minorities. Mr. Minister, I must tell you that we are always expecting debates on the proposal for a law in the field of education, culture, public information. Zebny exists because there is always a danger that you are consciously or unconsciously putting out of the legal force certain parts of the national councils of national minorities, and we think that this is problematic not only from a legal point of view but also from a civilization point of view, if I can formulate it in such a way. I know, Mr. Minister, that I don't have to explain to you what national councils are, unfortunately, there are a lot of your colleagues whose zeroes we have to talk about what national councils are, that they are the highest authorities of the cultural self-government of a certain national minority, that they are the constitutional category in the Republic of Serbia since 2006, that they were the constitutional category in the state community of Serbia-Montenegro, even earlier. That this state has the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities of 2002 and that all these regulations guarantee members of national communities certain, not only individual but collective rights. We know how proud the Republic of Serbia is of the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, which was brought to this House on 31 August 2009, the same day that it was brought to the so-called House. Probation Act from the field of culture. We do not dispute that it is a modern law, and we are very pleased that Serbia has passed such a law, that Serbia respects not only individual but collective rights. There is a huge problem and I say, once again, not only legal but also civilizational when, for example, the proposal for a law on library information work does not know the national councils of national minorities. What can we do about it? We can make amendments. We have submitted three amendments. When we talk in general about the area of culture, and in particular about library activity, national councils have only a few specific responsibilities, but these responsibilities are very important for members of the national communities in Serbia. One jurisdiction concerns that the National Council shall give an opinion in the process of establishing or abolishing libraries or organisational units of libraries, which have a book fund in the language of the national minority. This is Article 18(1) of the Law on National Councils. There is no such competence in the proposal for a law of library information work. If this jurisdiction had not been taken over, that is, that is, that this jurisdiction does not exist in the bill or in the law on library information activity, there would be a conflict between these two laws, i.e. one draft law and the other law. On the other hand, we would come to a situation that is inadmissible in the rule of law, whether the law on national councils or the law on library information works differs from municipality to municipality. Given of course the fact that the founder of a particular library, i.e. specifically in the local self-government, from a political point of view, it is responsible that the national council has certain competences or does not answer that the national council has certain competences. That, once again, is inadmissible in the rule of law. The second jurisdiction existing in the Law on National Councils is contained in Article 17 of that Law. I will read you this solution that exists in the current law of the Republic of Serbia. It means that I quote: "in cultural institutions the founder of which is the Republic, the AP or the unit of local self-government which the national council finds to be of particular importance for the preservation of the identity of the national minority, the national council: 1) appoints one member of the Management Board of the institution; 2) gives an opinion on the proposed members of the Management Board of the institution; 3) gives an opinion in the selection process of the director of the institution". Again, these powers are not contained in the concrete proposal for a law on library information activity. As you can see, this is not about extremely significant jurisdiction. National councils have far more significant responsibilities in the field of education, for example. I don't think we should allow ourselves the situation as the National Assembly, to reduce the level of human and minority rights. That would not be in line with civilization's achievements again. On the other hand, it is explicitly forbidden by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. To be honest, the situation isn't that simple. We also have the Culture Act, so-called roof law, which sort of regulates this area. I must tell you, Mr. Minister, that this law is in collegiate with the National Minority Councils Act, and I will immediately explain why this cohesion exists. The conflict exists because both draft laws were held at the same session in 2009. Since the Law on National Councils has not yet been passed but has been in the form of a bill, we have not been able to appeal to the solutions set out in the bill, so we have negotiated with your predecessor, Mr Bradic, and with the people of the ministry about our amendments. The aim of our amendments was to provide for the same solutions to the Bill on Culture and the Proposal for a Law on National Councils of National Minorities. We've come from more favourable solutions to national minorities, since that's normal logic and I think again in line with civilization's achievements. These amendments were not adopted in the form in which they were submitted, but we were forced to give "forced" of course to correct those amendments. We were guided by principle - better anything than nothing. Practice shows that this conflict is causing huge problems in the field. National councils call for solutions from the Law on National Councils, certain local self-governments that do not understand the importance of a solution to give an opinion, for example, in the selection of a director or to propose one member to the UO institution of cultural and library, are guided by the solutions that exist in the roof Culture Act. I think it is now an opportunity to bring the Bill on Library - Information Action into line with the existing Law on National Minorities Councils, when it comes to library activities and competences in this sphere within the sphere of culture. We suggested, as I said earlier, three amendments. The essence of these amendments is to take into account the competences of the national councils of national minorities when it comes to issues in which national councils have competences, and they have almost two years of the Law on National Councils. Like I said a few minutes ago, it would be a huge shame if we missed out on that collapsing. I think that now we could create a precedent together and we could stick to that precedent when this National Assembly discusses the proposal for a law on theatre activity or theatres, archives, cinematography and other areas within culture. I believe that from the coming months we will discuss this and also some other laws, at least these two such proposed laws in the field of culture. I know, Mr. Minister, that you are attached to the rule of law, not just to the rule of law. I know it's not a floscule for you, it's not a political slogan, but to believe in the power of the rule of law. I hope we can arrange for these amendments to be accepted. I need to tell you right now that the situation is crystal clear, not to blackmail you, of course. Since we've known each other for many years, we know what we're allowed to do and what we don't. I would never let myself blackmail you. We need to create a clear situation. We can't vote for the bill, and it's not just about this law, it's about all future laws. For example, tomorrow we have a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the founding of education and education systems and on this law is the same situation. We will not be able and we cannot support a law that means a direct step backwards when it comes to the jurisdiction of national councils of national minorities. We cannot afford this, because we would thus support a solution that is less favourable for members of national councils for members of national minorities represented by national councils. I know we share our opinion on the matter that MPs should represent the interests of those who are seated in the National Assembly. Finally, I would like to announce that, in the foreseeable future, we will very soon propose amendments to the Law on Culture, so that we do not have such a complicated legal situation. We are, of course, ready to discuss concrete solutions, which have already been laid down by the National Councils of National Minorities, and we would love very much if we could agree that the National Assembly in this constituency changes and roof so-called. a roof or basic law on culture. As for these proposed laws, I say once again I hope that our amendments will be accepted and that these laws will not only be modern in a professional way, but will respect the level of minority rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57775	Thank you. The minister wants a word. Just sign in, please. Minister Predrag Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57776	First of all, I want to thank you for your correct and precise remarks, and then in order, because I am someone who respects the order. So, I'm sorry, for my kindness to all MPs, I want to ask you, you know that I am a practical man at the same time. I don't know what the amendments are, on the other hand, you know my position, about the fact that the right to the right can't be reduced, but you're a lawyer, not me. And also, I can't have the conflict between two roof laws dealing with laws that technically do something, and we're going to sit down and look at it, because really, you know, I repeat again, I just said that, people are the most important. You've seen me thank you for the reaction that it's possible in five minutes to solve something that you couldn't quote for years. Why? Because the technical solution was being considered. I also looked at article 18 and article 19. The law, which, of course, you don't have to trust me on issues, I stick to that rule, you know, and I believe in God, I'm checking others, and please check it out. I think there is enough space in relation to those who are founders and that now that we have detailed regulation of one area, please simply look at whether it is possible to technical repairs, further protect a particular group of citizens, because we have to take care, on the one hand, of the rights achieved, and on the other hand about the practice achieved. You know very well, we have a big problem when the law provides something, and we know that in reality in this case by all the National Councils and you know how much my effort is to make the National Councils partner and that in that we have to learn state bodies, but often the National Councils, and it's very dangerous to insert something that might make something fundamentally difficult so decisive. Since I'm someone who supports all national minorities, here I am at your disposal not here, we're not going to take time, I know that's not your goal, and here I am in Gjurjin, in the morning at nine o'clock a.m., I suggest we cut our hair together at the prosecution and figure out what's possible for one and another national minority. Here, I see someone else will join me, right, Mr. Varga? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57777	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Svetlana Stojanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57778	Thank you. A bill on Biblical informational activity, a little something to be resented. It's comprehensive, comprehensive, precise, modern, even futuristic. It regulates the collection, processing, storage and giving of library buildings, stipulates that all Serbia will be networked into a single library information system from now on in a year, when this law starts to apply all libraries in Serbia will have computers, and libraries trained to work on them, will have as many books as they think they need. Books that they do not have, and one user needs, will be able to obtain from another library, thanks to the introduction of a single system of mutual catalogues, a central electronic catalogue of the Republic of Serbia, a virtual library and much more that has long been known in the developed world. All libraries across Serbia will have the necessary telecommunications accounting equipment. Does this look like Serbia today? For everything the law prescribes, as stated in the reasoning, no additional budget resources are required, and the law requires that the modernisation of the library is financed by the founder, meaning the Republic, the Autonomous Province or the units of local self-government. The National Library of Serbia, in the letter of this law, is playing an extremely important role as it should. It brings national standards for the processing of library buildings, funerals, co-ordinates and coordinates of digitisation tasks, defines purchasing policy, organises and coordinates the work of a library network in the Republic. The law trusts the National Library of Serbia to run a central electronic catalogue and a virtual library, to combine the purchase of foreign books, to install international standards into our national and organise expert exams for libraries. The National Library of Serbia will take care of the country's Cyrillic manuscripts and Serbian manuscripts abroad and work on making general catalogues of Cyrillic manuscripts, which DSS MPs particularly appreciate and support. The "Matice Srpske" library's task will be to participate in the creation of a single library system of the Republic of Serbia and complements the central electronic catalogue. It is our pleasure that the National and University Library "Ivo Andric" from Pristina is an equal part of Serbia's library system. So, the library system of the Republic of Serbia, according to the letter of the law, especially these three most significant libraries, the National Library of Serbia, the Mother of Serbia library and the Library of Ivo Andric of Pristina, are the University Library of Svetozar Markovic of Belgrade, the network of public libraries, all other types of libraries, schools, high school, university, libraries located in scientific and research institutes and libraries of state institutions, such as this one in the National Assembly, beautiful and rich with many unpreserved and unreserved old books In the unique system of library networks are also libraries of political organisations, religious communities and associations, as well as other legal and physical persons. All these libraries will be part of the system in the country of cataloging and will have access to libraries outside Serbia. Local self-government units are required under the letter of the law, not left to their will, their ability to establish a public library and provide the necessary conditions for its work, without additional budget costs. The basic work of the library, as well as their programs and projects, which in the modern world have become a mandatory part of the library's work, is not just the role of the library to borrow books, the funding founder, but not in general, will only be co-financed, and part of the library's money must be provided from its own income from the membership of users, sales of its products and services on the market, donations and gifts. Let's stop with these praises, in this ultra-modern law. We would like everything to be as prescribed by the law, but whether the legislator, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has ever gained insight into how many places there are no libraries in Serbia, how many school libraries there are not in their fund or compulsory school booklets, if we don't count some editions on the paper that fail after the first reading. Have government members noticed that local self-government has no money for the most necessary needs of its citizens, that people are hungry and out of work? Did a minister in the government accidentally see a contribution to RTS, in which one father of three school children in a camera publicly declares that a beating controller would ask his child for a train ticket, when he was sent to school and to the school library? Does the Government count that this father of three without a job, and a million citizens in the same economic situation, will enter his child into a public library, paid for by membership, buy a product or service that the library brings to the market, or even donate to him? Our government, the legislator of this law, does not seem to live in the same land of hopelessness, decay and unemployment in which its citizens live. No one is more than DSS MPs attached to the idea that every village and town in Serbia has a well-equipped and networked library. But from where? From what means? When the budget deficit grows, factories do not work, workers strike, farmers strike, production and budget inflows, and the culture ministry budget is 0.65%. From what? From an ever-increasing deficit. Until we choose a government that will launch production and ensure that the republican and local budgets are filled, while some new government, with its whole policy, stops the country's solar collapse from applying this ultra-modern law on library-informative activity, will be nothing. The second law includes a united discussion is the Law on Old and Rare Library Building. We don't have any bigger objections to this law than there are no financial preconditions to apply. From what means will microfilm, digitization, conservation, restoration of old and rare library buildings be paid? The old and rare library structure defines this law as an old Serbian book, which we are extremely pleased with. Dubrovnik literature defines it as Serbian and Croatian, which is absolutely correct. The issue of this law is published outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is good. For research into conservation and laboratory tests of old and rare library buildings, as far as we know, there are no appropriate conditions in Serbia, and we do not see the government's intention to create such conditions. Article 33 of this law correctly states that the activity of the protection of the old and rare books is financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but in the light of the law it is explained again that the additional resources for this job are not necessary. Isn't that contradictory? Not if the government has no real intention of allowing restoration, conservation, census and research of an old and rare Serbian book, or if it has no intention of applying the law we are dealing with today. It wouldn't be a miracle, since most of the laws that we bring here day and night don't apply. We support the Ministry of Culture in an effort to protect and preserve an old Serbian book, but unfortunately we do not believe it is possible with this government. The third law we are discussing in a united debate is the Law on a mandatory copy of the publication. This bill correctly prescribes the objectives and purposes of a mandatory copy of books and other publications, the way in which mandatory copies are collected, used, protected, bibliographically processed, catalogued and distributed, with the aim of producing national bibliography. Mandatory copies under this law are kept by the National Library of Serbia. A mandatory copy is passed to the Serbian Matica Library, as the Matica library of Serbia has the obligation to send a mandatory copy to the National Library of Serbia. However, the legislator, therefore, forgot that the single library system of the Republic of Serbia belongs to both the national and university libraries Ivo Andric from Pristina, so DSS MPs tabled an amendment suggesting that this accidental failure be corrected. It is also good that a mandatory copy is provided in electronic form, as this will save costs for its subsequent digitisation and allow users to use them more easily in multiple copies, and will make them more accessible, blind and impaired, as the electronic form is more easily transmitted in sound format. No additional funding is needed in the Republic of Serbia's budget, according to the argument. Such a claim to DSS MPs points to the absence of the government's real intention that the law that the Assembly adopts and implements. To conclude, even when good legal proposals come before MPs, which happens extremely rarely, in advance, and with great certainty, we can say that this and this government will not apply them. We do not say why we are wrong, but because unlike the Serbian government ministers, we live among the citizens of this country, we know what it is and what their priorities are - to find work, food and school children without losing the identity they were born with. Three proposed laws preserve national identity, it's good to have them, and they will be applied by some other governments with a completely different attitude towards their country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57779	Thirteen minutes since the authorised representative of the parliamentary group was used. Minister Predrag Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57780	I thank you for all the compliments on those experts who prepared the law. I pray for the other speakers, it is known how much I care about the adequate laws being passed and properly applied, but please, as I suggested to Mr. Balint in the clear air that we talk, the whole world is not here, nor, thank God, everything is decided by the government. The minister, by the way, represents the resort, and within that vault, all happiness is to all quality people, everything said here does not need any additional resources. He doesn't need any extra funding. Why? It's all there is. Please, there's one thing with citizens, my neighbors in Rakovica, they're having a hard time living, but the library is equipped to be networked. So let's just not do it for political reasons. I have a lot of understanding, I don't mind, but let's go when we've agreed together, and you're professional enough and you've assessed the quality of what the experts did and what's been a public debate a year ago, let's just make it possible for those who are already doing it, which already cost access to information, let's put it together and vote it. Governments will change. But let me tell you something, it doesn't really affect the economic situation of how you're going to use the library. I'm someone who belonged to a working peasant family, and it wasn't a problem to pay for membership, it wasn't a problem, it was those libraries I was involved in that they were getting books in good time and they followed standards that were equal to the standards in the environment. It's a prerequisite. Now we want the same thing. I'm sure you all want to help, and I'm quite clear from your professional arguments to what extent you support it. Indeed, there are laws about which we certainly shouldn't be different, and of course I don't mind any political evaluations, but I don't think there's any need for any of us to represent ourselves to the citizens, because everyone knows that there are common things that we defend together and there's no need for us to differ around them. Thank you again for that contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57781	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Marija Bulgarianic, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57782	Thank you. I think it is very important to bring a set of these laws, and for these laws you will have the support of the LDP parliamentary group. We are a country and a people who have their cultural wealth and I believe that it should be protected and valued. What's good in the first of this law on library-information activity is that Article 11 introduces a centre for mutual cataloging with all its functions and that's what's new in this law and that's what we welcome. That's not what we've had so far. Also, in this law, it is good that the obligation of continuous professional training of library workers, which is also good. It is also good that the rights and obligations of the user will significantly improve under this law. What's left unsaid in this law, and I'd ask the minister is what about the old books in the archives of Serbia, in the national libraries, in the libraries of the National Assembly, here with us? I'm also interested in what about completing an archival building that is of invaluable value and history of Serbia? Do you know that in the archives of Serbia and other places where they are kept, there are no complete Serbian newspapers from 1856, you know what I'm talking about, which are protocols of the Paris Congress, the Paris Treaty, and which from that day on, Serbia has become an internationally recognised subjective right in Europe. I also want to know if you know that there is no systematic stenograph of notes and protocols, and it is not in one place, so that researchers can't come to one place and find everything they need, but they have to go to the National Library, to the archives, to our library, here in the congregation, so they should take care of it and take care of it. These are some of the questions that I am interested in, which I believe are a large part of the public and I have to deny you, you said at the beginning that you visited every library in Serbia. You didn't visit a library in Luciani, at my place. With this I invite you to come and visit the Library in Luciani and, of course, donate some books, because every library needs books, including ours in Luciani, so this time, you said that you would increase the library fund three and a half times, that you had in mind small municipalities, such as the Luciani municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57783	It's been used three minutes and 30 seconds since the authorized representative's time. The word has Minister Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57784	Thank you for correct questions and correct denial. In the very library building in Luciani, I was not, simply, a floscule. I think there may be a dozen libraries in Serbia that I haven't been to. You're absolutely right about one fact, which is that this isn't enough. The next law, it's intensely involved, it agrees, it's just the law on archives. Why? Because now, it's just been established, this law allows for different networking of the protection of a whole series of libraries, and where private founders are, physical persons, SANU. What doesn't say is, we gain the opportunity of those resources, and it's already digitized, now I've visited and I've also checked in Hilandara, the hilandarian libraries and what was done at the beginning in the framework of the "Matice of Serbia" and the one in SANU. We have to invest centrally, that's investment. I'm left with you with an answer, unlike these first conservation costs, so I'm saying not everything in these halls, let's go together for a few days to the National Library, let's go to the Central Conservation Institute, which, together with the Government of Italy, we've opened at Therasiums. We already have the resources and we are already doing the highest level of conservation and protection, but to do all this, I'm talking about the whole building, you're right, we need to pass a new law on archives, which we're going to correctly define to be the state archive of Serbia that would take care of everything. In the meantime, because there are great people in the archivist as well as in libraries, who have already succeeded on the basis of some little money to do everything they can, we're not just going to put into office, when I tell me about the state and these professional people, I'm not talking about individuals in power, not about myself personally, not about the Ministry of Culture, who doesn't have any money, not enough personnel, as you know. In the meantime, we are already doing research, we have excellent findings in those archives that have been unreachable to you so far, such as the Archives of the Church of Dubrovnik or Sibenik. We have some great discoveries. They'll all be presented on December 14th, so you'll see part of the answer to your questions. Otherwise, libraries will get three times as many books from the budget. If you're talking about donating, I never flaunt what I donated, but your library will definitely get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57785	The word has been issued by MP Zlata Djeric, the authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, above all, I must thank you for saying in such a beautiful way that people are older than the law and that the laws are the fluids of people, and not the other way around, that people are more important than that. It's a nice humorous approach. Knowing your vote, I know that according to these laws that you are defending before us today, you are certainly the same way that you are worthy, so I will remind you, purely challenged by this finding of yours, of a wise woman, Maria Montesori, an Italian woman who, in time, said that the truth of human life is secure as gravity, in order to live completely, we must learn to use things and love people, not to love things and to use people. So these laws should benefit, especially people, and preserve cultural goods that are also the fluids of people. Since it is three very important laws that treat library activity, you will certainly agree with me that it is the greatest discovery of humanity and that it is the one that has made it possible for mankind to go through civilization, no other discovery has made it possible. That's why we're sitting here today. So today we have a set of laws: a bill on library-information activity, a bill on old and rare library buildings and a proposal for a law on mandatory copies of publications. You've very well explained the reasons for their adoption. What bothers me at first is not about you but about the government that sent these laws to the MPs on June 30th, and already on July 5th, the MPs are expected to declare them in an adequate manner. They're certainly important, they're very high-quality. We've got some petty grudges we've been trying to make with the amendments to suggest they move away. What I have to say is, the government does not have a proper relationship with the National Assembly. I say again, not to you, but to the government, which mostly in this way, by sending the laws by emergency procedure, not leaving enough time for MPs, leaves additional doubt that he doesn't want to give us time to give about some law, and these are system laws, we think and make a decision in the right way or underestimates the matter the laws are dealing with. Either way, neither of us is a compliment to the government. I'd like to go back to my legal proposals. When the reasons for the adoption of these three laws are considered as an emergency procedure, contradictions are immediately observed. On the one hand, it insists that library information activity as an activity of exceptional importance, with which I fully agree, be brought into line with international or European standards and thus address the problems identified in current everyday practice. This finding is repeated under all three proposed laws and points to the extraordinary urgency and desire of the proponents to overcome the identified problems in this area as soon as possible. On the other hand, however, it is noted that the existing law on library activity has been in force since 1995 and the government only after 16 years notices that a number of solutions in it have been overcome, primarily by the development of new technologies and that it is therefore necessary to pass new laws. It is certainly true that internet and information technologies have been widely represented in the Republic of Serbia for more than a decade, and I think that much earlier should be remembered and joined precisely by modernising this activity. When we say – the library, the first and inevitable association of each of us is – the book. The main goal of the library’s information work is to popularize books, i.e. reading books as necessary preconditions for the acquisition of new knowledge. As we conclude this, I simply cannot help but look back at the fact that we are going to discuss here at the same time also the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the basic system of education and education. You know how deep those areas are with each other. In our education system lies the accumulated long-standing causes of the good part of the problem when it comes to the invisible place that the written word has in this society, not to say that the book has long been banished in various ways from society, primarily thanks to the electronic media, that the beautiful word is somehow banished from society, that cultural and beautiful address has long not been applied in many places where it should be applied. The book is mentioned once a year in Serbian electronic media, unfortunately, especially those most visible, and during seven days of October, we all know that, while the book fair is going on. Then the book is present and afterwards very shy, very modest and very rare, and I think that electronic media, especially public service, could contribute to the serious popularity of books and written words in this society. Also, the ministry and the buy-in policy, for which there is never enough funds and a different approach to buying books from our various publishers, both private and those who are not, would contribute to a better preservation of books and a greater popularity of books in society. I absolutely support the Ministry of Culture's commitment to aphirming through the provisions of these laws the general value of the written word in our society, as the basic library building and the prerequisite for winning new knowledge. What scares me is that the chronic lack of money in the budget will be the reason that this pledge remains just a dead letter on paper, so I expect the minister to have an election for that part of the cake with those angels in the government. The financial and material situation in which the largest number of libraries in the Republic of Serbia is located does not give us many reasons for optimism at the moment. The right popularisation of the book requires the participation of all relevant entities that create a social environment in Serbia, the state, the media, various associations, organisations. Unfortunately, general commercialization has created an ambience in which television and the Internet are the source of all information and in which reading books and law, basic knowledge takes place in front of so-called. instant knowledge, instant information, which is obtained by surfing on social networks. That's why we have teenagers today, eights, 15-year-olds and older ones who spell when they read. The highest number of students in school libraries, not to mention city libraries, enters as punishment, when they need to take a booklet, and usually to repair a very bad grade from their native tongue. SMS messages are pictures of the illiteracy of our society. We have many reasons to be seriously concerned about the preservation of language. I therefore welcome the efforts seen through this law to preserve the language and to preserve our Cyrillic letter, and we particularly support it. The NS parliamentary group has tried to contribute to the improvement of these legislative proposals through several of its amendments. When it comes to the system law that needs to be governed by this area, the Library Information Act, we have several objections. The solution proposed in Article 22(3) leads to a conflict of jurisdiction between the National Library of Serbia and the Matica Serbian library, when it comes to performing parent functions in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Since this was certainly not the proposal's intention, we have offered an amendment to which the issue of jurisdiction of these two institutions in this domain is precisely regulated. Please pay attention to that amendment. The law in Article 9 singles out the National and University Library "Ivo Andric" in Kosovo and Metohija, as an institution in its position that differs from other libraries. It is positioned right behind the National Library of Serbia and the Matica Serbian Library. However, in Article 28. The law has been fully ambiguous in a manner that regulates the financing of the institution's work from the Republic's budget. It is as if the proposer had refused, fearing that his solution in this domain would prejudge future political developments in Kosovo and Metohija. And here we intervened with the amendment, in order to define this institution precisely. We are surprised by the fact that the law does not precisely regulate the issue of the appointment of the director of the National Library of Serbia, which leaves room for doubt that the government, with some only known reason, gives itself broad discretion when it comes to this matter. There are still other concerns that some members of the law leave behind, so we have intervened in several places with amendments, such as Article 32(1) point 4. The law stipulates that one of the basic tasks of the National Library of Serbia is to popularise and promote books, read and free access to information for all citizens. This task, which is put before the National Library, is practically inconclusive if, above all, the media and other entities that create the general social environment are not engaged in this work, i.e. in this regard. In the mandatory copy of the publication, we intervened with several amendments, mostly with the intention of correcting some technical details and inaccuracies. Here, as in the other two legislative proposals, we have an important objection. In fact, the criminal provisions of these proposed laws provide for our circumstances and an area that regulates extremely high fines. We believe that punishment, first of all the library, is counterproductive with dragon penalties, and in that sense we have suggested a reduction of the maximum amount of fines being threatened. In Article 10 of the Law on a mandatory copy of the publication, it is foreseen that the National Library of Serbia and the Library of Mothers of Serbia in the achievement of the general interest, monitors the enforcement of the obligation to supply a mandatory copy and to take measures according to the bonds in accordance with this law. This is the legal solution we consider to be not precise and leaves no doubt about which entity and how it initiates and implements the criminal provisions of this law. The law on the old and rare library structure in Article 30 provides that the National Library of Serbia and the Matice Srpske Library is to launch an initiative to restitution the old and rare library buildings, alienated from owners on various grounds. However, it is quite unclear more – what is the legal basis for this, in front of whom and in what way, as well as in co-operation with which state bodies is this initiative being launched? And when it comes to Article 53 of this Law, which regulates the control of the traffic of rare library buildings, it is prescribed that legal persons can carry out the traffic of these buildings if they are registered in accordance with the law for this activity. On the other hand, natural persons are allowed to traffic this building without any restrictions, which does not seem to make any sense, given the importance of this activity. That's why we intervened with the amendments and suggested that natural persons can't deal with the traffic of things of a rare library building in the form of occupation. Of course, library activity is a work that rests in Serbia on thin financial grounds, that self-burning, skill and enthusiasm of the employees of the people you talked about... I come from a city whose library celebrated 150 years ago, from Somboro, and we are proud of all our traditions, including this one, and especially that what the century and a half exists is one of the most modern safe in Serbia at the moment, and precisely thanks to self-gorge, skill, effort and enthusiasm of people who work in it. Sure, speaking of the city, I'll only tell you one personal observation. For me it is a city – a city, if it has a library and a music school, then it is a city no matter how many inhabitants it has. It gives him the attribute of the city. These laws when they are adopted in this House with those amendments and amendments that we have all proposed in our best interest and with your good will to make it even better, unequivocally and to implement it, there will certainly be a certain print of the author, certainly you as the minister, who has defended them here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57787	Twelve minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the authorized representative's time. The minister wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57788	Thank you very much. Thank you for your commendation, not for me, but for those who worked. The law was at a detailed public hearing last October. As I said earlier, the minister is responsible for the portfolio, not the government, then allow me to respond at the same time and for what he does, not the Government. If there is guilt, and I have heard as a procedural complaint the second time why these laws are proposed by an emergency procedure, the guilt is solely on me and on the ability to convince the government and, simply, I want to share this with you, indefinitely correctly during the session itself, several ministers have gone to check whether opinions from their ministries have arrived to allow my request and explanation, which is the same as what we shared at the beginning, because it is common, to allow it to be found at the National Assembly's session as soon as possible. I'm standing at your disposal for each of the amendments to see if it's just a technical failure, if it's possible for an oversight, if somewhere else is solved or in harmony. It'll be a great pleasure. Simply, I would like, as I sincerely testify about this, to continue to compare the exact data, because so far, we all seem to agree on how important the area is and that is, so at first I said, I hope neither of you are interested in the formal cause of urgency. When it comes to heritage, when it comes to the protection of cultural goods, every moment is urgent. That's why we don't need any formal legal basis. On the other hand, I say once again, enough experts worked, long enough in front of the public, everyone involved, it was only for me to allow these laws to be put before you as soon as possible because you believe in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57789	National MP Zlata Djeric, two minutes for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57790	This is not a replica in the right sense, because the minister didn't deserve it, I just wanted to thank him for having the tenacity to come now. When we talk about an emergency procedure, I don't dispute the reasons for an emergency adoption procedure, but why, if you already said that a public debate was concluded in October, why didn't we get it sooner? That's what a little bothers you, and you'll agree and share your opinion with me, when it comes to culture, then, not this government, but many governments treat it like a stepdaughter and always saves on culture. The people who began to save on culture begin to lose in all other fields, only to ask you to continue fighting in the government as a lion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57791	Minister Predrag Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57792	Thank you very much. I realized it wasn't a replica, I just wanted to correctly share, but to understand now, the National Assembly is preparing so many laws at different levels, and they're also getting opinions, so I'm also saying why they haven't been before, because otherwise the procedure has been further accelerated, and I thank you on behalf of my colleagues, everyone in the legislation and finance, first of all, who, exceptionally, quickly provided an opinion, in order to get the conditions for the law to be in the government and immediately, then in the Assembly. Before that it was necessary, it was that the debate was concluded, but the status was the same as those of the laws, draft laws, which did not go through a public debate at all, such as, say, the Publishing Act where the objections were such, that essentially the law did not go through a public debate and that was on the side. So it was up to me to prepare and bring together the people who did this professionally as soon as possible all the objections that were, agree, prepare and bring and round this continent. So it's just a correct answer and correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57793	In accordance with Article 27, I also remind the Members of the People and Ministers that this session is scheduled on the basis of the request of 122 MPs, not at the request of the Government, so I ask that we bear in mind these basic facts as if we are talking about deadlines or what is on the agenda or what is not on the agenda. The extraordinary session may be held either at the request of the Government or at the request of the Members of Parliament. The one in which we are is at the request of the People's Messengers. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57794	I know you wanted to help, and thank you for that, but as you know, I always know exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57795	Minister, please understand that the chairman is holding a session in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I did what I had to do, based on article 27. No minister, no member of the government and none of the participants in the session conducts controversy with the chairman or has the right to replication. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57796	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to get a little involved in the discussion initiated by my colleague, Zlata, and a little minister has worked out, for a reason... Mr. Minister, I'm here. I'm sorry. You're saying that the proposal of these three laws has been cumbersome and the civil servants are very serious in an area that has been neglected for years, living in such difficult times in the Republic of Serbia for 18 years, one of the legal proposals still stands since 1994, and the application since 1995. You can imagine the situation of the MPs of any member of parliament who gets the agenda with these three laws on Monday, today is Tuesday and is due to submit until the beginning of the session and the amendment? Indeed, it is correct by the people who lead the Assembly that, I am not talking about the Ministry, the material on such a serious subject that, as you say, it has worked for 18 years, not only you, but many before you, especially the people who are in this area who love this area, and we have a situation that three serious laws, against which the SNS parliamentary group had nothing against, except certain proposals which we consider to be incorrect, do not mean that we are against the adoption of these laws, but I ask you that because you say you do not know the amendments, it is impossible to know them because we have almost handed them over, until the beginning of the amendments, to hold a meeting or to take this situation seriously, because you have said that this matter has been prepared for 18 years. There would be no reason for what we think should be changed accordingly, that you don't accept it because we are in a situation due to some legal deadlines, and you yourself said that by September you expect to apply these laws and that this virtual world, I apologize for what I say, will start working since September. Fortunately, there have been people in this area who have been the least involved in politics for the past 20 years. You know how, the director of the library almost no political party will choose or change on the political line, because few criteria for the election and for the signing of the director, in particular I'm talking about the local environments, were very difficult so that they could be politically touched, so that in this area people who are working on this virtual world, which we have prepared for these laws, we have officially brought about the previous 18 years, with a variety of strengths, efforts, but you can imagine their functioning when you have a director who is not according to a political line set up, his propriety, or cohesion with the leadership of local self-government and weight in that case, and he is not a member of a political party that is at some point leading local self-government or, let's say, some other institution and state institution. Because of all of this, I wanted to go to some other discussion during, but my fellow pastor's discussion defined me as going through the law, or after discussing the law on library-information activity, that was my original intention, and then I gave up and started discussing the law on the old, rare library structure. I think it was unserious of that segment of yours, but I don't blame you, your colleagues respect you, I didn't have the honor and pleasure of being an MP when you were president, it's probably the merit of an earlier period. It's a little inconclusive that you'll be discussing the amendments on Saturday, somewhere in a piece. I think they're serious amendments from fellow pastors and groups of national minorities. Because of all that he pointed out in the principle debate, I want to rely on it and start with the Law on the Old and Rare Library Building and, in further discussion, not to look at politics at all because this really isn't the policy area, but you have to agree with the finding, although you have said something else, that living standards, economies, life conditions are very much affecting standards in the field of culture. Unfortunately, it's compatible stuff. The thing is, you're also a minister in this government. No one forced you to do this, you accepted it by having responsibilities and bearing a burden of responsibility to questions in your area. I'm very glad that your resolution ministry, after the law on which the dust didn't settle, the Information Act, comes from such three very important laws, the laws needed for an area that hasn't been regulated for 18 years, but people who love culture, especially those who are in library informational activity, have done and prepared that the provisions of this law can begin to function within some deadlines for which, given the procedures in the technological sense, this law itself determines, it would take a little longer than you prescribed. As regards the law on old and rare library structures, let me say that the opinion of the SNS is in Article 2, paragraph 2, where you mention the words – state and national interest, you say that the protection of old and rare library buildings is an activity of general interest. We think that this context, or provision of general interest, is sufficient. Because the issue of clarity of state and national interest, you will have to agree, whether it exists or not, and it cannot be derived from this law or can be prescribed by this law. That is why we have responded to Article 2 in amendment and asked that this section be deleted for the reason that the general interest in this area is sufficiently important. Regarding the story of fellow pastors, we have asked the amendment to protect the old and rare library buildings and protection and to expand the construction into the old and rare languages of national minorities and to apply the provisions of this law equally to them. It's probably someone's fault, you say this has been going on for a long time, there's been a very big failure, and you'll see it. For example, Article 7 states that the old and rare library works consist of old Serbian books, manuscript books in the ancient Serbian language, printed books, small copies in the edition of 100 pieces, old foreign books. This is not what I was talking about, and I think it was made by chance, but a very big failure. Our amendment also covers this authority, and I think that since it's not about the laws that have been dealt with in politics, there's no reason for such a huge failure to be built in. You'll notice, see. You probably saw it because the law doesn't really get through. You don't have to apply to the roof culture law. He can't solve everything. Neither the roof law on culture nor these laws, but the provisions of the Constitution clearly define certain things and they need to be followed. It should not go against the provisions of the Constitution. When you look at the SRS amendment, you'll see the situation we've predicted. I don't want to talk about it right now. It'll be about the amendments. It is a good way to overcome the failure by introducing the provision proposed by the SNS. We have suggested, that you do not bother, that the provisions of this law be applied equally to the old, rare old and rare library building created on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, either in public property or in the possession of natural and legal persons who have residence or headquarters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That amendment has circled what I'm telling you about. This failure is being passed through this legal proposal. A piece of that stuff was said by fellow Pastor. So there's no misunderstanding, he's not in conflict with the roof law. Such an amendment may be adopted, or adopted. What you did to Article 40. You prescribe the bill, we don't think there's any reason for it to exist in this law. The prescribing of employees' obligations to constantly improve professionally in the law is indeed devoid of any logic. If these people hadn't perfected themselves, the question is, where would this area be for us? You will have to admit that you and I, perhaps in this short period of time, but in very different conditions, were members of the library and had to find there everything we needed at some point in time in a different way, but in these times people in this area were most encouraged by certain associations of citizens and the non-public sector dealing with this problem, because various donations managed to solve this area. Now we're practically legalizing the situation that occurred in those 18 years. People have perfected themselves for this area and have perfected themselves for what technology, in itself, makes progress. If you've prescribed this kind of thing by law, then you must also prescribe sanctions. You in law did not impose a sanction on the provisions of Article 40. No legal sanctions. In view of this situation, it is necessary to delete Article 40, because it declares that, as certain points, members and other laws in this set, there is no reason other than the declarative, that it stands in the law itself. In Article 56 which speaks of the legal provisions of this law, you are talking about the final position on punishment – you will be punished for the violation of Article 1 and for the person responsible in the legal person. We have proposed an amendment solution here and we ask that the words "and the Head of State Authority who is not a legal person" be added after this text. The proposal, i.e. this member and the bill, does not stipulate the responsibility of the Heads of State to violate the same provisions of the law for which the sentence for legal and responsible persons is prescribed. There is no reason not to include this category of persons and, as they say, they all have the same conditions and work, not only on declarative matters, but also on what, in terms of criminal provisions, you prescribe. The law would then be properly implemented, especially on a building located with state authorities, it is necessary to accept this amendment. What else does it matter? In principle, we do not have any major objections to this law, except the one most important that fellow Pastor partially touched, and I told you seriously that it should and should not be contrary to the roof law, to do so in amendment, or you, or the resolution committee, and not related to our amendment. This is a member of the 61st draft law – the sublegal rules for the implementation of this law, will be adopted within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. We have added a new position 2 which reads – that the adoption of the rules laid down in Article 1 will be subject to sublegal acts in accordance with the cultural goods law. It's that 1994 law that applies to an old and rare book. Under the general legal rules, all sublegal acts cease to apply with the date of adoption of the law. Now we have a situation here that, if you don't adopt this amendment, or I don't know if anyone has submitted a similar amendment, some other parliamentary group, you'll bring in the situation that libraries and state authorities can't work, because in the period from the adoption of regulations in accordance with this law, or in the period until you comply with these laws, there's a certain time-limit and it's necessary to call for that void, in order to make the official messenger 71/94 function, or what you accidentally failed to do, a vacuum space in the functioning of state bodies and libraries. Those would be the most important objections to this law. Now I would focus on the law on a mandatory copy of the publication. It's also quite well done law. I'll bring you a piece in front of the SNS parliamentary group, not big remarks. These are objections where there is also no reason not to accept it for the functioning and application of the mandatory copy of the publication, because again I must say that this is not about any political struggle. It's about the simplicity and functioning and application, the adequate application of all these laws that you are defending as a minister today. In Article 2, you deal with terms, we don't know if it's and we don't think that's the most important thing for some legal norms and rules. We think this is a purely declarative attitude. So in our opinion, he had no reason to enter the proposal for a mandatory copy of the publication. We also prescribed the responsibility of the Heads of State and this law, in order not to repeat it now, to exempt these persons from the part of the criminal provisions. There's no reason they shouldn't be covered by it either. We also responded to the addition following Article 17 of the proposal to apply after Article 1 and Article 17 of the proposal to transitional final provisions. Sublegal rules for the implementation of this law will be laid down within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. There's also a period here where neither the previous laws nor the law you're proposing would apply, because the area that deals with this law doesn't work for 90 days. You'll agree it's not that small. I don't think you left it on purpose, but you accidentally forgot in mandatory copies when you instructed what the publications were, to forget both the master's and the doctor's papers. I think it's either me or it's just a short time I haven't been able to see it. So it's about three very large laws. If you are not or if you are, I withdraw the word, that they, in view of the weight of their contents and works from various areas they deal with, would have to find a place in Article 5, or in the contents that are required under a mandatory copy of the publications. I'll leave the time, since this is running out, and it's a little bigger law, so I'll get back to you at the end of all MPs' statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57797	It's been used 17 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has Minister Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57798	I suppose you're right, Mr. MP. Emergency could have affected quickly. You haven't noticed what the preconditions are, so there are different solutions, and even in this, and in relation to the criminal provisions, in the meantime, while you were talking, I understand the conversation in the Assembly, first to be heard carefully, and then in relation to what we can immediately answer, not to wait in the end. That is why I have paid so much attention to the MPs, that we are talking about what the Government has sent these laws by emergency procedure, and as you have seen no MP or minister have spoken about who it is and how it has scheduled the session, but simply, sometimes the urgency of the time makes us not able to concentrate. Thank you for these remarks, I'll look at it, but I'm afraid in a few cases, your well-intentionedness has already been resolved and entered into the laws, as well as well-intentionedness. I have to share this with all of you, I don't say unseriously, at the stroke but it's a matter of national minorities and there's not just one and Mr Balint is clearly and precisely representing one, and I invite him because there's a world outside of this room, that in peace, when I show how much I respect at least two other national minorities that organise the membership in Gjurjin, that we can talk about it because it's a kind of mutual solidarity, when everyone is solidarity about something that's culturally good in this case immaterial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57799	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? National MP Nikola Žutić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57800	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, you as an experienced publisher, passionate bibliophile, a fan of the book, in my opinion a completely competent person to promote the legal proposals we are considering today. I therefore believe that the principles of finding a restitution, keeping an old book and a rare book, maintaining a library profession are in the first place, and that you will defend the Serbian book, Serbian library, or profession against European, civil, ultimate demands. With the proposal for a law on the old and rare library structure, the first thing that bothers me is the very name of the law or the term of library building, as if it were some kind of building material, carpenter or someone else. An inappropriate term is taken, which is established in the archival profession and unfortunately the historical profession, so often says archival structure. For me in the archivist, the term document, the archive fund, rather than the archive structure should be used. The term archive material is also used which is certainly more acceptable than the building concept of construction. Mr. Minister, I suggest that the name of the law is simply renamed in the proposal for a law on an old and rare book, a name that covers the essence of the law, which is its majesty of books that can be printed, written and in modern times in electronic form. As a variant of the name of this bill, I also propose a solution to call the law – a law on an old and rare book and library material. I further suggest that foreigners in the law be reduced to as little as possible to protect Serbian language and thus old Serbian literature and history. In my view, the law lacks provisions to protect old and rare Serbian books abroad, especially in the area of the former historic Serbian countries. The bill unfortunately covers only the space of this geopoliticalally mutilated Republic of Serbia, even without KIM. As Serbia's historical people and state space are reduced, the space of protection of the old and rare books is reduced and there will be fewer and fewer jobs for the protectors of Serbian material cultural heritage. The old rare book was created on the premises of Trieste, Istria, Žumberk, the German town of Zagreb, the western Slavonia called Mala Vlaška or Mala Srbija, eastern Slavonia, Srema, BiH, Serbian Montenegro, Boka, Dubrovnik, KIM, Albania, Serbia, etc. The Serbs first produced writing books like this. The famous Gospel of Miroslav. The printed books of Serbs were produced with the appearance of the first printing works and the book of religious character for church needs. After the Obodska printery, Djurdža Crnojevic from the end of the 15th century. In the 16th century, printing works are established in Gorazd, Gracanica, September, Milesevo, Church, Belgrade and Skadra, while several printing works have been published in Venice by Cyrillic and Glagolitic books for the Serb people. The famous was also Podgorica's Bozidar Vukovic and Simovic, then Kotoranin Jeronim Zagurovic. All printers were book dealers, especially Serbian and Dubrovnik merchants who appear as printers of Cyrillic editions, such as Troyan Buldovic. After the settlement of Serbs in the Habsburg monarchy in the 17th and 18th centuries, Serbian church authorities are trying to establish Serbian printing works. In the general shortage of Serbian books, Russia's important activity in the printing of Serbian church books, especially since the time of the rule of Peter the Great and his successors in the 18th century. The Russian book reached Thessaloniki and Boka Kotorska, flooded Erdelj, Banat, Ugarska. The books of Serbian printers, such as the publisher Dimitri Teodul and his son Pana from Venice, appear. Austrian authorities banned the spread of the Russian book among Serbs, so general censorship for imported books was cited, and Austria itself began to support the printing and publishing of Cyrillic books. In 1770, Vienna printer Joseph Kurcbeg received a 20-year privilege that only he in the Habsburg monarchy could print Cyrillic books. In the 1990s, Kurcbeg's printing press was taken over by Serbian Stevan Novakovic, who published the first Serbian books and newspapers. A bookstore and publisher, Joseph Milovuk, who published several books of significant Serbian writers, appeared for the peoples in Budim in 1830. In those years, other publishers, such as Damjan Stjepanović, Jovan Jankovic in Novi Sad and Gavrilo Kovacevic in Zemun. Among the pioneers of literature, i.e. library, Gligorija Bogarević was among the Serbs who qualified in Vienna for bookkeeping and printing, and in 1827 he opened a bookshop in Belgrade, the first on the ground of the Republic of Serbia. At a time when the first printing works in Belgrade began in 1832, Bogarevic had a lot of work to do as a bookkeeper. The bright figure Milos Vidakovic, who published grammar in Pest in 1838, then the history of the Slavic-Serbian people published in Belgrade, used Rajic's historical records and others. There are numerous titles of the Serbian old and rare book, but due to the lack I would not detail. He would now specifically move on to the provisions of this bill. Today, there are very strong trends in the acquisition of the material and immaterial cultural heritage of the Serbian people, the acquisition of Serbian language and letters from newly created nations of Croats, Montenegrins, Muslims, Bosniaks and part of the Macedonians. Thus, both Serbian old and rare books are attached. The national and religious institutions of the Serbian people are legally unaccounted for, whether under pressure from a European dictatorship in writing laws or something else. So, for example, in the amendment to Article 6, I suggest that the last attitude of 5 and linguistically rephrase be changed, by writing the words "Serbian Academy of Science and Art" instead of the words "Academia of Science and Art". The current formulation in the multitude of the Academy of Science and Art is failing the importance of the basic Serbian academic institution, acknowledges the unconstitutional legitimacy of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts and creates legislation to declare new Academys of Science and Art and even the Academy of National Minorities. For example, the launch of an initiative for education, so-called Sanjay Academy of Science and Art. Serbian Orthodox Church according to Article 6's formulation The bill of law of a traditional recognised church turns into a religious community, as formulated in the bill. I've submitted a number of amendments to article 7. With one amendment, I point out that Serbian, Bokelic and Dubrovnik literature are undivided because of the related thematic literature of the Serbs of Orthodox and Serbian Roman Catholics Boka and Dubrovnik. And the connection between the moving stay of one and the other in those areas, such as Matija Ban, Medo Putcic, the family of Vojnovic and the other. The same amendment to the SRS suggests erasing the national concept of Croatia's Dubrovnik. The historical fact is that Croatia's beginning in Dubrovnik is only in the second half of the 19th and early 20th centuries. So the editions of Dubrovnik literature concluded with 1867, as stated in the Bill's proposal, cannot in any way be associated with Croatian culture. I would like to point out that in 1909 the Serbs of Dubrovnik and Boca founded the Serbian Matica in Dubrovnik, which published dozens of books, which today are rare. Unfortunately, the Serbian state and Serbian scientific and cultural institutions did not even mention a major jubilee in 2009, let alone organised an appropriate scientific gathering or conference. However, a group of historian enthusiasts, historians of literature headed by the Government of the Republika Srpska Krajina in exile, we still marked the 100th anniversary of the Serbian Mother of Dubrovnik on August 1, 1909, and then published two yearbooks and twenty reprints in the autumn, until then rare books. This is our concrete contribution to the preservation of an old and rare book, which is no longer rare after the release of the reprint. Mr. Minister, it is a good thing that at the point of Article 7, the prominent censored and disseminated editions of which, due to the non-mocratic governmental systems in these areas, there are many. On this occasion, I would like to mention the forgotten and discreet books of the Dalmatian novelist Đura Vilovic and Mike Bartulovic, who are animated because of their belonging to the Ravnog Chetnik movement Draža Mihailovic. Đuro Vilovic was forgotten even though he was one of the most important writers of the period of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, winner of many awards for literature, and even in serious readers he was more popular than Miroslav Krleža. By the way, I wrote four books about the forgotten and foretold Miki Bartulovic, in the ontoriot books he became once again known to the cultural public. That number of books says he was really a great creator. One more thing about article 7. The law on an old and rare book, which is very important for the protection of books, books that are not under the authority of RS, which were Serbian according to their origins. Accumulation of the first point of Article 7 is the result of the linguistic notional chaos that exists in Serbian classical philology, so the first point formulations are very complicated and vague. Now I'd quote that part for the viewers. "The old and rare library building makes point 1."and twice here is the point one. I guess the right path should be, and that's the technical thing, instead of point one, put "a." This point 1 reads "the manuscript books in Serbian, Slovenian and Serbian, the Serbian language period ending with the 18th century, as well as the manuscript books produced by 1867 in Serbian, Russian in Serbian, Slavic and Serbian people's language" Indeed, these formulations are complicated, complex and rather vague, minors need a translator for these powerful concepts of Serbian, Slovenian and Slovenian, etc. The Old Slovenian language is actually an ancient Serbian language, while the language variants are so-called. Church Slavic or Russian church Serbian intrusion to then intellectuals and high society, until the appearance of Vuk's standardised folk language and spelling. All in all, it is about the ancient Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter of the Serbs of three faiths. The Latina was later imposed on Serbs by Roman Catholics and Muslim faith. I also submitted an amendment to write down a new point 4a after point 4a, which reads "protection and knowledge of Dalmatian, coastal, Istrian literature that belongs to Serbian culture at the end of 1867". The explanation -- due to the Serbian historical duration in the territory of Istria and Dalmatia, is mentioned by Serbs Orthodox and Serbian Roman Catholics and Uskoci and Bunjevac and Vlasi, so it is necessary to take care of the old Serbian written legacy written by Serbian ancient Slovenian script in the form of verbs, which are fully owned by Croatian historians and literary historians. Let me also look back at the chronological definitions and periodizations related to the old and rare book. Articles 7 and 8 are historic members for mentioning various chronological provisions. The law mentions itself on several occasions in 1867, and in the light of the law there is no explanation for future users, which is why this year is a historic library turning point. A historian would think it was the year of the Austrian settlement or the release of Serbia from Turks by handing over a few towns into Serbian hands. However, it is not noteworthy for viewers, that the law mentions the lower limit for the adaptation of a rare book in 1867 was accepted according to the Serbian bibliography for the recent literature of Stojan Novakovic, as the ban on the use of Vuk's letters and spellings in schools and state administration was lifted in Serbia that year. The bill also mentions the people's word - round year, 1700, 1800, late 18th century. However, in the light of the law, it is not pointed out why such periodisation is. We have submitted an amendment to Article 8 so that, in point 1), after saying, "Old Slovenian" we added the words "and the Cyrillic letter" to make it more precise and after the words "languages" we added to the brackets "a jar of Bosnians". The legislative proposal should provide a special formulation of this member of protection and of Serbian verbs and Bosnians from the unfounded unscheduled adoption of the Croatian nation in Croatia, Bosniaks and BiH. The Serbian state should not reject the old and rare books written in Latin, as they are the books of the Serb Roman Catholic faith belonging to the Serb people. It should be pointed out that the Latin is not only today's Croatian Latin, but that it is Serbian because of Vuk's orthography and those five Latin letters c, æ, ð, j, g, etc. The amendment further suggested that the mention of the AP, i.e. the unit of local self-government be placed in the plurality – autonomous provinces, i.e. the unit of local self-government. The existing language form deletes AP KiM from the cultural space of the Republic of Serbia. With one amendment, we stressed the RS's obligation to ensure the consistent application of international conventions on the protection of material and immaterial cultural heritage in regions and abroad. It is known that in practice through UNESCO, conventions on the protection of cultural Serbian heritage are being violated by the acquisition of Serbian material and non-material heritage, so it is necessary that the state, through such a provision, prevents the aggressive kidnapping of Serbian and cultural treasures, hence, of the Serbian cultural treasure in Croatia, in KIM, from kidnapping an immaterial culture of mothers, an old landscape singing form. Furthermore, besides the National Library, in Belgrade and the Matica Srpske library, the law does not mention the National and University Library of KIM in Pristina, it is simply forgotten. The old and rare Serbian book on KIM is left to the care of the "Siptara" and thus disappears the unique cultural space of the Republic of Serbia. To conclude and to point out that the old and rare book, both Cyrillic, glagolitic, Bosnian, and that Latin in the Western Balkans area, is a feature of Serbs, Orthodox and Roman Catholic religions, and because of this fact, the Serbian state should fight to find, restitution of the preservation of old and rare editions that were adopted and alienated from Serbs, from nations created in the 19th and 20th centuries, and then created states after the violent destruction of Yugoslavia in 1991-1995. During the existence of the monarchist and Republican Yugoslavia, due to Yugoslav brotherhood and unity, historical facts related to the nation and language have been falsified, so often everything that is a Serbian cultural and historical heritage is attributed to the so-called "Nation and Language". Yugoslav peoples, who have been multiplying over time. At the very end, I would point out one edition of the 1973 National Library, whose title is "The Consequence of the Communist, Political, Cultural dictate", while the course of the book's contents is falling away from the Yugoslav title, because the book mostly mentions Serbian ancient books, since others, as I have previously pointed out, were not even in the larger number. The book of which was also the famous classical philosopher Dimitria Bogdanovic, who certainly disagreed with this title, but had to agree because of political pressure, and the book bears the title "Catalog of books in the languages of Yugoslav peoples in 1519. - 1867."so, this definition of the date below. The book is really valuable, the catalog of an old and rare book, which was in the National Library before World War I and the Second, but was destroyed in mass, after, especially during the bombing of Belgrade, on April 6th. (President: 20 minutes. Can I from time to time? (President: You cannot, MP from the time of the parliamentary group. Please remind yourself of the Rules of Procedure during the session. Thank you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57801	Mr. Predrag Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57802	Thank you. I thank you for the numerous data you have presented and the effort, as well as other MPs and well-meaning according to this law. It's my request not to just lose sight of it, these laws worry about the total library structure, it's not a foreigner, and the material is. So, not just books on what you've turned your attention to when it's neutral by established standards, by applicable standards, categorized, because researchers will then enter a whole series of definitions of whether something belongs to a body of one literature, whether it belongs to a corpus of other literature, a whole series of arguments, but it's not mine to agree with, or to dispute, because it's not the place in this law. What's important is the question, what the state does, but not the state, but the state, all together. So, countries from Italy to Moldova, from Slovenia to Turkey, signed the Belgrade Declaration a month ago. It was a pleasure that we managed to reach a common agreement, but that's exactly what data networking would be about, if we were comparable both material and immaterial heritage, because it's the only way you could protect them. That's why in these categories that exist, they were proposed by different experts who better than you and I know what's in use, not going into how terminology happened, and now it's possible for researchers to search in different libraries in a different space, and we also allow our own and other researchers. One who cannot show how he guards his own and others can hardly expect to be provided in the same way as the one who keeps his belongings. On the other hand, there is and I am often brought by language by reading these laws when I first examined them, meanings that we adopted, which were found in libraries and their categorizations. I want something different to be called, but it's terribly important to call it exactly what it's called in all related institutions in order to be able to achieve, change doctrines and I don't mind, because I don't know who's right, or this is where it's being tried, but it's the key to creating such a neutral one, and that's why so many MPs today agree, because this is a way to enable and legally, to create and preserve old and rare books, and in the meantime we will often be in misunderstandings. You've been distracted a little while ago, so it seems, you say, there's no old and rare book of the national minority. There are no old and rare books of national minorities, but there are languages, and it's completely under the second point, it's being solved or it's been a foreign book, because there's been changes in states, territories, they've been kept differently within the Matice Sr. library. We have to ask each of these logical ones, as well as these questions that you asked, because it sounds logical to me to ask, where are the old and rare books of the national minorities, but we have to ask and see how they are led. So they're not being run under the terminology that we've created as much as it's in the interest of the users. For some things, we have to ask the experts and how it is in certain catalogues, and something to bring in the language that we normally use in communication. Thank you for all of us contributing to this and for having this understanding, so together with these amendments, we will look at whether something is common in this floating terminology as it exists in public life or whether it is common in the real terminology used in the library. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57803	The word has a national MP, Gorica Mojovic, authorised representative of the parliamentary group for European Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57804	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, may have been in a sense the problem for a short time we had to consider such important laws, but I must say it is a great pleasure when at one meeting of the Serbian Parliament you have the first three points of the agenda in the field of culture. It's also a pleasure that this little set of laws, I'd say, in a normative sense, we're putting on an entire area -- library information. This set of laws gives me hope that we will probably have new laws in the field of culture soon. First of all, the Publishing Act, which, with these laws from the library information system, is also related. Of course, laws in other areas, laws in the field of protection of heritage culture, archival buildings and cinematography. It is necessary to speed up certain law-making, because other than that systemic or, as we call it, the roof law of culture, which was passed in 2009, the Law on Delegations and Foundations, sort of as if the area of culture, when it comes to legislative activity, has stalled somewhere in 1995, and life has gone on. New technologies, new ways of communication, expressions, different forms and forms of keeping and protecting books and publications developed. European countries have aligned their legislation with new scientific technological achievements and set modern standards. We're just catching up. I dare say that even the practice that we have, thanks above all to the National Library of Serbia, has preceded our normative system. I think the National Library of Serbia deserves praise, as well as credits and recognitions from both European and other international organisations and associations, for what it has done in the field of digitisation, the use of electronic formats, the formation of digital libraries, catalogues and so on. I tried to distinguish some of the basic characteristics of all these three laws, and it seems to me that what especially characterizes them is that these laws represent an explanation, an explanation and a definition of the basic settings of the two laws of culture, the 2009 Culture Act and the 1994 Cultural Goods Act. In addition to these two basic laws, of course, all three laws are passed by certain newspapers. In my view, these are two important characteristics - alignment with existing laws, i.e. work and newspapers. What does that mean when we say they comply with the Law on Culture of these laws? Under one, they clearly and practically define the achievement of general interest in the area of the library information system. Under two, they determine the process of establishing institutions, types and types of libraries. Under three, the content, meaning, goals of performing the parent functions of library institutions and the special role of the National Library are explained. Under four, the selection process of the managing authority, directors of the boards, their obligations and responsibilities is being formulated. Under five, in the part of the law relating to funding, other than the general provisions laid down by the Culture Act, these laws are tax-listed purposes and jobs for which the funds for the libraries can be used. Under six, very important, education levels, specialization, training of expert staff for different types of jobs in library information work are prescribed. What does compliance with the Cultural Goods Act mean? Otherwise, I think, despite the fact that this law has been overcome in many parts, it is one of the better laws still in force, but it is really necessary for it to experience, as in this way, further development and clarification. The law gave rise to two laws, a mandatory copy of the Law on the Old and Rare Library Building. What did we get? One, clear formulas of cultural goods in the library information area. Two, a fully reviewed system of jobs and obligations that are achieved and in this area of protection of cultural goods, I'm talking about a rare old book, a general interest. Under three, detailed criteria for the assessment and categorisation of old and rare library buildings have been elaborated, such as detailed procedures related to what is considered to be mandatory specimen, publication and method of delivery of the mandatory copy. Under four, the rights and obligations of owners of old and rare buildings, as well as of a mandatory specimen, have been specified. Under five, a similar procedure is established for the protection of old and rare buildings, as well as for the delivery, storage and deployment of mandatory copies. What are the papers in these laws? What I was talking about was just explaining and expanding part of the general settings of the already mentioned basic laws and sculptures. When it comes to the Law on Library Information Action, of course, I consider the law very good, but what I consider particularly significant and what represents a newspaper in relation to existing regulations, it is the construction of a single library information system, and that, above all, through the establishment of a centre for mutual cataloging. Under two, the establishment of a system of mutual catalogueisation for the result should have a central catalogue of the Republic of Serbia. Under three, introduction into a system of new building forms, such as electronic publications on carriers or on the Internet, combined and multimedia publications, computer programs etc. Under four, the conditions for the establishment and operation of the library are fully arranged. In addition, of course, the establishment process has been found that libraries must have adequate telecommunications and computer equipment, as well as experts to handle it. And what I find very important, as far as culture is concerned, but also education, is prescribed by this law that every school, university, scientific institution must form a library. When it comes to the Law on the Old and Rare Book, that is, the paper in this law is the establishment of obligations, microfilming and digitisation of buildings, the possibility of protection of these buildings and private property as cultural goods. The obligation to protect the building under extraordinary circumstances, for the first time we have in law, and we have, thank you Boru, in our experience of a great deal of emergency circumstances. Also, the obligation to secure an old and rare construction in an insurance company. We also have an obligation that whoever comes into contact with a rare and old book within three days must report it if there is any suspicion that it is illegally acquired. What is also very important is the right to prevent the purchase of a particular library of such a building. Newspapers in the Law on a mandatory copy of the publication. That's what we were talking about. The mandatory copy is no longer delivered by printers but by publishers. The number has been reduced from ten to five, except for bibliographic editions, because they are really very rare and in a small circulation they are printed, in which case they are two mandatory copies. It also introduces the obligation of local publishers to deliver their local editions to their libraries in order to enrich the legacy funds. It also introduces an obligation to deliver publications in electronic form, which significantly reduces after costs. Furthermore, digitisation that is mandatory, of course, makes such form much more accessible to users and what is very important by applying certain and simple software, such publication is then easily used by blind and weak-sighted people. The paper in this law is also the obligation of distributors to deliver a mandatory copy of the book, i.e. a publication published abroad. And what seems really important to me is that the law introduces, which is not often the case with our laws, forms of stimulation for those who are zealously and honestly obeying legal regulations, as well as measures and penalties for those who do not. There were words here about the means needed to implement this law. The minister also said that most of it, I was commending the National Library of Serbia, saying that most of these jobs are already in the process and I also say, when it comes to the process of conservation and restoration, that the library has both equipment and experts and this will only be an opportunity for me to correct one data that appears on several occasions in discussions in this parliament, when it comes to culture. It is said that the culture budget was reduced in 2011 to 0.65%, and it was somewhere near 1.090 – 98% almost one, if we have in mind some investment funds that were elsewhere in previous years in the NIP and similar funds. So you should look at what the 2011 budget for the culture of the Republic of Serbia looks like. There is no longer any position at 4.6.3. where institutions are, there is no means for Vojvodina's institutions, because these funds are transferred to Vojvodina by the Law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP. Therefore, the budget has not been cut, only the funds have been distributed differently. Just to remind you, there was 865 million in that position before this Law was passed. There's zero there now, because that money's being sent to the Vojvodina. Therefore, it is not accurate that the budget has been reduced. It was a little depression at the expense of the funds. I believe in what it says in the law that we should continue, of course, to increase the funds for the purchase of books and everything else, but these are the issues of budget allocations. What I would finally like to point out is that all three laws prescribe a series of measures that make library construction more accessible to users and just as an example, Article 41. The law on the library information system. If the library does not have a certain structure, and the user is required to obtain it within a reasonable period of time from another library and country or abroad. And let me get this straight. All these laws are very valuable. They extend the field of communication, data exchange, ideas, knowledge and education, and free access to information, the spread of knowledge borders is one of the basic human rights and conditions for the progress and democratisation of every society. That is why I call on all fellow Members to vote in favour of these laws, as will the parliamentary group, which I belong to for European Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57805	Thirteen minutes and 15 seconds were used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a minister, Mr. Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57806	I also want to thank you, Mrs Mojovic, for the precise and correct approach. I have to say that a whole series of arguments that you've just presented, I've heard today on the board, part of you, part of you, some of the other colleagues who managed to arrive at the board on time. Once again, I thank you on behalf of all the people who have prepared. On the other hand, when we talk about comparable data, I'm not going into whether it's 0.65, 0.85, or one, I'd like to thank you all together for Serbia's sake to realize that this budget is small. Since there were suggestions – let's deal with some in the government, I say – The Assembly, thank God, also brings budget and budget rebalances, so please, in the way you have responsibly accepted and joined now the analysis of these laws, the first time we are fighting in the same way to have a whole series of cultural activities, and it concerns both material and immaterial heritage, to deal with it, and as a resolution minister, I am at your disposal to point out because, as you know, the budget can only be transferred from one item to another, it cannot be added somewhere if it is not removed. So I'm going to point my finger at you, so I'm standing at your disposal, that's in my job description. I want to focus on what Mrs Mojovic said because of all of you. Conditions are created, some are technologically created, some are created infrastructureically, some are only with this set of laws, access to users. It will open up a whole spectrum of possibilities for those who are not engaged in this business that we do, but are just getting ready for future jobs to be used. That's why I'm going to repeat the metaphor that I said today, I said on the library: it's crucial that now that the printed publications, when the books are in crisis, several of you have provided information about it, about the funds and how many people read, to make a book as accessible as possible. an unattainable reader. In the description of the librarians, they say that they are persons with disabilities, persons in rural areas, they are the poor layers of the population, isolated, thought of no detainees and thought of refugees who are otherwise isolated, and all together I remind you that there is one character that fits all of these descriptions, someone who was a person with disabilities, someone who was poor, someone who lived often in refugee, someone who was from the rural environment, who is Vuk Karadzic. Know, whenever we make it to an unknown and unreachable reader and create conditions as a state, we are actually going to someone who stands at the beginning of what is contemporary literacy in Serbia, so know that we are going to Vuk Karadzic. That's how I understood these discussions of authorised representatives. Once again, I ask you to keep this kind of tone and decency even when the next laws arrive. It is up to us to ensure that they are of the same neutral-professional quality and in the interest of all, and that, above all, will be the law on archive construction and archives of Serbia and the law on cinematography. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57807	Since none of the authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word to exercise their right from this part of the session, I would like to inform you that they are, in accordance with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled search, applied for a word in writing, and with a number of MPs, submitted the New Serbia parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group. We move to a part of the session where the right to speak is given by the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. The first on the list is the National MP Zlata Djeric, followed by the National MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I will not use all my time at my disposal, I will say a few things to be said in this plenary discussion. So we have an important set of laws that we've come to realize that they're late, that they should have been passed before. Of course, I don't honor it for anyone, least of all the ministers. He explained how he managed to get them to come before us, and it's good to have them in front of us. The book has long been exiled in these areas. When the crisis comes and some economically unfavourable winds come, then the book is first rejected and thrown away, and that's not even the only reason, that's our excuse for the culture that we started to persecute, because it caved in to instant knowledge, instant information and instant emotion that was imposed by electronic communication. I expect, of course, that these laws that will regulate library, a serious activity in this society, will primarily help one army of invisible people who work with extreme enthusiasm and great love for this business, and that we will all show together that our culture and tradition are older than all our party and political divisions. So, as for books, as someone who is in love with the book, and I know that Mr. Minister is also someone who is also a respected and knowledgeable of books and literature, I would recommend that he treat the contemporary political scene, promoting the book and these laws that govern this area, as Duško Radovic recommended that we refer to raising children -- we have to trick them, educate them not to notice it, and when they notice it will be too late, they will already be brought up. So we too have to surprise our public to return to the book and read, because there are more and more of those whose only literature during life was in text messages, and these are in illiterate text messages. So we hope that the books will outlive the Internet, that we will benefit from one important activity and that one day we will all be able to be proud that we have participated in the preservation, legislation and cultivation of precisely the work that will be very important for Serbian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57809	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57810	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a set of three laws, very important, but by studying these laws nothing new has actually been passed, except that we could lay the foundations of an absolute building, a building that needs to be absorbed and that the national Serbian identity once again confirmed. The guardians of this historic building, we must be aware, were our grandmothers, mothers, who still sang to their children with their living monuments in the cradles, passing on live history to them, this Serbian prefix of the love of a national being. I ask you, 50 years, when we are under the command of communism, when this Serb being is destroyed, in the last 10 years we have tried and, unfortunately, we want to get close to these laws again, and no law that you have promoted here in this building has passed without mentioning the EU. Let her go aside and once we go to show or prove that one Serbian identity, to show that one Serbian history, to show that Serb being. If we stop and go back, we can say that the people who don't have their own past don't have their own present or their own future. I'm afraid that one day, and that day is probably not far, that Emperor Lazar may not be from the west, or be of German origin. I fear that, as the minister said, when we talk about Serbian culture, we must remember all these parameters that he listed, the works of Vuk Karadzic. I'm afraid he's German too, because we want to, or we want to, or the individuals want it to be their identity to show it, they show it in a different light, they show it not in that light where we come from. Now let's not have a new dress model be our challenge, our jacket and our pants, but the folk costume, it seems to be the part we're afraid of, whether we're going to forget about it, and that's the historical prefix of the existence of Serbia, or the Serbian nation. I ask you, here it's decidently said, so all libraries and all the names that today figure in Serbia, is the KiM library, or library in Pristina, still the model that speaks of the identity of Serbia, about the identity of Serbian culture, about the identity of a Serb being? I'm afraid not. I have to tell you, 30 years ago, that library and this historic structure may have been the most significant historical origin of the building in Europe, so it can be said in the world. But today it's not like that. This Albanian, to call it fascist, terrorist syndrome destroys everything that is Serbia, which is the Serbian monuments of culture, it is in fact the first library of Serbia, and not to mention all of this, such as the historical meaning of Mr Nikola Žutic, my party colleague, spoke very well of dates and also of the historical being, and of the normal importance of the historical one that has followed all of this and led to one importance for us to survive as a Serb nation. Today we're talking about these three laws that need to hit the foundations of historical buildings, to preserve it all, but I must tell you honestly, says Mr. Minister, whom I respect for my actions and my work, but I think a lot of it has been destroyed, a lot of it has gone through the hands of those, as the minister said, we failed to stop them last year, to prevent all these historic buildings from being carried out that has no value. What's also very important is, we're all talking about how and how these historical structures should be preserved or protected. That's one big job. Unfortunately, I think it should have worked before, because where there is no or where Serbs are expelled from their hearths, history and historical beings have been expelled, unfortunately and certain documents about the existence have been destroyed. What we are talking about about national minorities, I agree with Mr. Minister that it was and will be and will remain the language written or unwritten word, which says that there were no national minorities in those times yet, but how and how time does it all change you see and, unfortunately, the politics that enters the pores of all things, and even in the pores of this library, to say museum buildings, which should preserve this Serbian being. How and how will we speak to our children about our biological survival? You know well that one man who wrote "Ideology of Serbian Nationalism" is Professor Vojislav Seselj, a book that is abundant in one great historical structure, which speaks of this being, which we all need to talk about today, to talk about, to speak about. Whether this entire travelogue, whether all of this structure that our ancestors or certain people have sacrificed themselves in some way, wanted to leave us, the descendants, to be able to carry it on our knees, speak or protect it from destruction, and when we protect the building from destruction, we also protected the destruction of its national existence. I think it's one of the most important things. This is all that's written here in these laws, it's actually a particular modulation of how and how to implement it all. But I ask you, as Mrs Mojovic said – whether there are enough resources to keep it all, that people who do this work, for me are like archaeologists, they have, unfortunately, small wages, they cannot fight for their social status. You know well how and in what way it was covered, especially by these means, whether from the budget or by some other means. Won't the funds come from certain donations again? I mean, you're turning these loans into donations, so, unfortunately, thanks to these donations or Western funds, we're supposed to keep our national identity? That's what I'm afraid of. Because all of this is said, it is absorbed in these laws, that is, how it is to be implemented by certain members. This is where the SRS gave a few amendments. If the government, assembly or minister accepts the amendments, it is certain that the SRS MPs will also support this law that is of great historical importance. Because unfortunately, it's all about us that it could survive when we pass those laws. In fact, there should be these unwritten laws that protect us, that prevent us from destroying everything that is national, what we have fought for centuries to prove and show here in this house, which unfortunately lies in the middle of the road, which everyone wants to occupy and everyone wants to take. They are looking for those who, unfortunately, want to make it possible for Serbia to forget itself, that there is no past, no future, no present. I'm afraid those feuds that want to occupy her, in a way like this, without weapons, have found new associates in the current government who, unfortunately, will give anything just to survive in the saddle, or on the horse she's riding on today, which is, I must say, honest, that's over the citizens, who she's humiliating today and who she's brought down to the lowest level. I ask you: is today a hungry man, a million hungry people in Serbia or a million who are fighting for their survival, can they and whether their first idea is national idol or nationalism, which should be present for them, and that is their survival? No, I don't. Do these same people need to use libraries that will be modern, university, high school, basic, as Mrs. Malovic said, I think we'll even have libraries in kindergartens and kindergartens, how did you go? That'd be good. That would be great. But I ask you, can a simple citizen today, a simple man, or should we ask ourselves here among ourselves when we last read a book or book that speaks of the being of a Serb? We couldn't read because the struggle for the survival of a nation is great, the struggle to feed our families, the struggle to survive as a nation in that biological sense, not to starve to death. It is today that this authority has, unfortunately, implemented in this Serbia in the last 10 years. You can't see the end. You can't see when it's gonna be stopped. Because many, who have made a lot of promises for the past 10 years, many who have spoken about all those aspects of their campaign promise did not do so. No, I don't. Because you know how it is. A man to live, there's five liters of blood in it. But, unfortunately, for these 10 years in man, in being, today is a liter of two or two, and the rest, I don't know how, a man can survive, and that's when he's bringing food, and that food is the national being he's talking about, but unfortunately, today in Serbia, it's gone. We need to understand something else, which is very important, which is that this power is everything it could destroy in a man – it has destroyed. It has only created and creates only one robotic being that is turned around and only thinks towards the EU. Unfortunately, was Emperor Dushan referring to the EU? Let's go back, take a look at history, see if the history of Serbia... Please don't throw it away, if you have anything to say, answer it and say it. (President: Please do not disturb the speaker.) ) Whether all these laws that were still in Dushan’s day, when these laws, or when they are viewed by today’s civilization, will be seen how much that prefix was culturally above today. That's why I'm wondering if it's possible and if there's anything we want to talk about today? This is a great idea. This is great. Everything here is well written, except for one item, where it is said again that, unfortunately, all of this must again be covered under the EU rule and agreement in Europe. It's the damage that ruined all this. So when we talk about ourselves, when we talk about our history, when we talk about our being, which is why we mention the EU, we let go, so we're part of Europe, maybe that part of Europe when civilization was here, up to one point, maybe they were up to our articles, maybe there was another tribal system of work. That's what we humiliate ourselves with, which we sometimes understand to lower ourselves to low branches. That's what I said at the beginning, thanks to those who created us, thanks to mothers, grandmothers and all those who sang songs to us in cradles, when there was no written or electronic form, but it was passed down from knee to knee, so that the history of Serbia, the history of Serbian nationalism, the history of Serbian being, never forgets. That's the most important thing, and I think that certain generations, our children, will have to understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57811	National MP Momir Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how much the ruling coalition has understood the seriousness of these laws also shows the fact that there are eight MPs in the ruling coalition in this room right now. It also shows the fact that the president of the Committee on Culture today did not invite all the members of the Committee, that Mr. Paja Momchilov received a phone call half an hour before the start of the Committee's work and that, of course, he could not and could not come in half an hour and attend that session of the Committee that was otherwise discussed with these laws. Unlike the current culture minister, who instead of investing in libraries, and now we've heard about how small the funds are compared to the funds that this country has set aside, he's been making donations to various associations, NGOs. Let me remind you that the MPs of the previous Serbian Radical Party have been fiercely criticised for a donation, a gay association, not a full year ago. So, at least the minister is trying to do his job correctly, but he brought me here a little while while explaining to one of the MPs, in a dilemma. He said not the state, but the countries from Italy to Moldova to preserve both their own and other cultural heritage. Let me remind you, it's a shame the minister isn't here right now, I believe he'll be here by the time I'm done with the exposure, the problem is that our cultural goods, our heritage, have been kept, have stolen, have stolen, have stolen, have been stolen, have now been signed by this Belgrade declaration from a month and a few days ago, which have sworn to preserve both their and other cultural heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, on the Serbian, national, cultural treasure, the Serbian cultural heritage has been rampant throughout the centuries. Robbery continues with unlimited heat. This law does not protect itself, or is not enough to protect Serbian cultural heritage and Serbian cultural heritage. The new states, created by the collapse of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, simply compete in the corruption and acquisition of Serbian cultural heritage, are taking over Serbian writers, Serbian cultural identity, our Serbian language, our culture and heritage from Dubrovnik, Dalmatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, and especially from Kosovo and Metohija is on the wind, and is now being kidnapped. The reason is very simple. They either don't have enough, or they don't have any of their cultural heritage and then they take ours. Especially that's what happens in Montenegro. You have the situation right now, that Mark Miljanov, who pleaded as a Serbian and Serbian writer, are taking his place and trying to translate it into that 32-letter Montenegrin language, that Negosa is trying to translate into Montenegrin and that a Montenegrin, although the congratulatory bishop was always talking about life that he was a Serbian and Serbian writer and a Serbian bishop, after all. They kidnap dead writers and deeds. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 1909, the Mother of Serbia, Dubrovnik, was founded in Dubrovnik, which included Dubrovnik and Boke region and lasted about two and a half years, and then the Vatican with pressures shut down. In those two and a half years, they issued 16 titles of Serbian - Serbian Roman Catholic and Serbian Orthodoxs. They published several magazines, the most famous were "Srđ" and "Dubrovnik". Serbian Catholics and Serbian Orthodoxs founded the Serbian singing society, the Serbian Sports Society at the time. All creation in Dubrovnik was also Serbian in that period. There were no Croats in Dubrovnik until 1900. That is confirmed by the Catholic bishop Vodopic. He says, about the beginning of the 20th century – today we are forced to declare our name in Croatia, and for Croatian name these spaces do not know. For the Croatian name neither he heard nor knew my grandfather, nor he heard or knew my father, nor did I hear of that name. One of the most prominent Serbs Roman Catholics in Dalmatia in the late 19th and early 20th centuries was also Catholic priest Don Ivan Stojanovic, who, in enthusiasm, says to the national enthusiasm that he is a Serb and that he is of Serbian gender and that his Catholic faith does not prevent him from pleading as a Serb. In all the parts it publishes it defended the Serbia of Dubrovnik, the Serbian identity of Dalmatia and the Serbian ethics of Nemnjević and Kosovo's color. In 1835, Croatians spoke the Croatian language pronunciation. With the Australian plan, the Croats left their language and accepted the Serbian language of the stokavian people's language, which they speak today. For all the Croats, that transition was painful, and they were reluctant to accept it. That is how Miroslav Krleža, who condemns his predecessors and blames them for taking over a foreign language and for disowning his own language, and indignity, pointed out that he regrets the Croatian language they reject from use. According to the 1850 census, the Austrian list. You know, the Austrians were very pedantic, because if they weren't, they wouldn't be using land books, Austrian land books today in Montenegro and Dalmatia. The list says that in 1850 there were 330,000 Serbs Roman Catholics, 79,000 Orthodox Serbs and 20,000 Italians in Dalmatia. According to the same list, there are no Croat Catholics. Today, unfortunately, by genetic engineering, all Serbian Roman Catholics have become Croats, and Serbian Orthodoxs have either been killed in World War I and in this last war, or have been expelled and are now in the mother of Serbia. The mother of Serbia's Dubrovnik who founded her, I say in 1909, is the second Serbian Mother. The first was founded the Serbian Matica in Novi Sad and the second was the Serbian Mother of Dubrovnik. The mother of Serbia's Dubrovacka renewed her work in Belgrade for the 100th anniversary of the founding of 2009 and Professor Petar Milisavljevic, from Novi Sad, was elected as president of the Mother of Serbia. Prof. Dr. Petar Milisavljevic is a respected professor of the Faculty of Philology in Novi Sad. He is the founder of the Serbian Renewal Movement, as a scientific discipline and a prominent fighter for the protection of Serbian language and letters. To date, the Mother of Serbia's Dubrovacka has been restored to publish 16 reprints. So, 16 books published by the first Serbian Matica Dubrovakia urprint editions. It was published by the Serbian Mother of Dubrovnik after the renewal of work. Then, two committees of papers, works on Serbian Roman Catholics, four works on Serbian Roman Catholics, eight books on Serbs in Republika Srpska Krajina and Serbian, and theft of Serbian language and Serbian cultural heritage by Croats. What's wrong with this law? What about Kosovo and Metohija? Why aren't they in this law? Do we also give up this law of Kosovo and Metohija? Where is the University Library from Pristina? Where was the University Library from Belgrade, which, apart from the University Library in Zagreb, was the most important cultural institution in the Kingdom of Serbia? The protection against intellectual property abuse is particularly problematic. In this, to get back to this, you put the National Library of Serbia and the Matica of Serbia in Articles 37 and 38. Why didn't you mention the University Library of Belgrade and the University Library in one or two of these laws? I think this law is missing. The protection against intellectual property abuse is a special segment and should be spoken of much more, but the time we have also prevents us from completely bareing this problem in front of the MPs, especially the citizens of Serbia. The protection of intellectual property exists only on paper. The Ministry is required to protect intellectual property. Why not raise a more agile question about intellectual property protection? Because it would have to, in that case, be hit on some intellectual and moral under quotes of both size and size that were bearers of the "bulloger revolution". To remind you that stealing intellectual property, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the ugliest thefts that can be carried out. It's the only thing harder than stealing intellectual property from a dead author. That's exactly what we had in 2001/2002. For years, to remind you that Professor Vojislav Seselj has striped the theft of a professor and today he is a professor, Stevan Lilić, who from a dead man Prof. Laze M. Kostic stole administrative law, prescribed it, he believes, died 50 years ago, and no one reads it, probably won't even be noticed because he died in Switzerland. He literally copied and placed the title "Governmental Law" and as his textbook gave, at the University of Law School, from that textbook was taught. Prof. Vojislav Seselj literally stated in a booth that he published, that they stand in the administrative law of Prof. Laze M. Kostic and in the administrative right quasi of scientist Stevan Lilić. Prof. Alexander Jaksic, perhaps more than two years ago, did not know the exact date, raise the question of the plagiarities of the doctoral work of Prof. The Prince's Gus. That's what's in one of the drawers today. That's not what we're discussing. Prof. Aleksandar Jaksic is also in the piece he published, in the book he published, which he literally translated from point to point what Gaša Knezevic wrote and what the previous author wrote. Such intellectual gromads give us knowledge at Law and at other universities. The Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the entire government will have to deal with this eventually. If we don't protect our intellectual property, we've done nothing. If we don't protect our cultural heritage, we haven't done anything. These laws cannot protect cultural heritage because they lack much more, this could be the first step, but much more will have to be done, especially to protect the Serbian cultural heritage that has now remained outside Serbia's borders. That's what's going on, it's being kidnapped, it's being adopted, and it's being attributed to nations or quasi nations that were created by the collapse of Yugoslavia. The squares of nations created by the decree of Joseph Broz Tito or some before him. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has written several amendments in an attempt to bring these laws, to put at least what is missing in these laws, or to clarify that it is better explained or to assist in the application of this law. I expect that the minister will in any case adopt these amendments to the SRS and as regards the works that are repretant of the editions of the Mother of Serbia, the renewed Mother of Serbia, I promise to the Minister and the Ministry that I will ask the President of the Mother of Serbian Dubrovnik that everything that has so far been issued as a repretant edition, the gift of the Minister or the Ministry, be the foundation, be it the yeast around which we will collect the cultural heritage that was created in the territory of Boka, Dubrovnik, Like, Dalmatia, Krajina and all those parts where Serbs lived, created and today belong to other countries. I would like to ask, by the way, what is the Serbian cultural heritage that was created by Serbs who escaped with Arsenija Charnojevic and others and created up in a work that was not once a territory, today Serbia. So, in Hungary, to St. Andrew's. You see, two Serbian queens were created in places that were not Serbian territory. The queen of Serbia's Dubrovnik and the Serbian Matica in Novi Sad. Around these headquarters were gathered Serbian cultural deputies and created and it is an invaluable treasure which, thank God, is now on Serbian territory a Serbian cultural heritage. But to this second Serbian Matika, we need to take care of the Serbian queen's creation, we need to take care because there are the roots of many distorted and wrongly asked questions in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Let me remind you, one of you from the ruling coalition may not be very pleasant, but to remind you of one name, a great Serbia. Great Serbia covered all the areas where Serb Catholics, Serbian Orthodoxs, Serbian Muslims and Serb atheists lived. So it's a Serbian cultural space and there's a huge Serbian heritage, there's a Serbian cultural heritage to look for, and I don't think the minister was there when I commended him, that at least he started to do something different than the predecessor. Here's the minister, I promised, you weren't here, I'll ask the president of the Mother of Serbia to come to you with some of his associates and bring you all these repritant editions from 1909 to 1912, and then you try to help the work of the Mother of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57813	Mr. Minister, go ahead. Minister Predrag Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57814	I thank your kindness as president, so I was allowed to monitor what you and the previous speaker both lied to. I seek, in respect of all MPs, how we approach these laws today, to seek to respond to what the law does exclusively to that part of the matter, but I must react as I did when I said who was responsible for the urgent procedure of the law, and I said correctly who was responsible. I also have to react in this case because I'm personally experiencing it. Please, if we already agree on the necessity, the importance of justifying all three laws for identity, for the preservation of heritage, for the preservation of heritage and the possibility of all of them being used, there is no reason, if we all agree on this from different political options, there is no reason to insult our own past. Whoever said, I think it was the previous MP, that because of the economic situation, I think it's Mr. Zivanovic, people should read less and that someone because they live badly can't read. Please, why do we even agree on these laws if we don't encourage people to use our cultural heritage? Well, I've been hungry to read thousands of books, so everyone has, and so has all these peoples, this heritage, which didn't stop them. There's always some kind of crisis, but we're talking about those frameworks that we're building together, we're making them available to us and to others, and there's no reason in any way, no matter how much politics this is, no matter how this Parliament is, there's no way to confuse the citizens. The goal is to create conditions, because generations are coming that whatever other economic conditions are going to be able to do this through these normative frameworks and through what we've invested as a state and so far we've invested as a poor state. We're not that poorer today than 10 or 15 years ago. Let's not kid ourselves. It's just a goal to create conditions and we all agree on that. Let's not encourage non-reading in any way, especially political reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57815	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57816	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, may I proceed with the Old and Rare Book Act? I would remind you once again that there are international conventions on the protection of material and immaterial cultural heritage. An important heritage is a language that has no boundaries. You mentioned here that these newly created states will solve each other's issues of heritage that belong to the state. It's about books. Do you agree with the falsification that Petar Preradovic, a Croatian writer, was born of the mother of Pelagija and Father Jovan, with the Serbian recognition of the old and rare Preradovic's book became a simple heritage of the Croatian people. There are many Serbs and many Serbian Roman Catholic writers. What nation of Croats has taken over? I remind you of this brief controversy you had with me. Thus, also Serbian rare books by Ivan Gundulić, Matija Ban, Cara, Ivo Vojnovic, become Croatian cultural heritage. On the other hand, the revision of history has not been carried out, so there are possible disputed historical hypotheses in this law, which are particularly expressed in Articles 6, 7 and 8. I've talked about it a lot before. If amendments to the Law on the Old and Rare Book were accepted, we from the SRS would support this bill, which would guarantee the care of the Serbian state of affairs of its ancient cultural heritage, which unfortunately was adopted by many nations today due to the negative Yugoslav political, ideological and religious context in which the Serbian people lived. Now I'd like to say something about the Library Act. In the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, library activity was not legally arranged at all. Sublegal acts, orders, rules and rules have been passed without the existence of a basic library law. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, for example, the rule of passing a state exam for officials in libraries at the level of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia is mentioned. It mentions only the most important libraries, the National Library in Belgrade, the University Library in Zagreb and the University Library in Belgrade. Unfortunately, as I said earlier in this bill, the University Library in Belgrade is not mentioned at all, although it would be important to stand in line with the National Library and the Matica Srpske Library in Novi Sad. A law on libraries has not long been passed in the Socialist Yugoslavia. The first law on libraries in the socialist Yugoslavia was passed only on 10 November 1960, and today there is still a Law on Library Activity in 1994. I am aware of the fact that Serbian library must be accompanied by technological, informative innovations, i.e. be consistent with the European library system. That, as far as I know, has been consistent with the basic information European library systems, library standards, because of better communication, or simply because of the faster finding of relevant library material for users. In the light of the legal proposal on library informational activity, it is noted that the adoption of ovzacon will improve and improve the existing normative framework of library work and allow for the development of library information activities, the progress of libraries in professional terms, as well as the protection of library security in institutional terms. For a reason, it is pointed out that the direct reason for the adoption of this new law is the tendency for existing normative solutions on library information activity to be brought into line with international, or European standards, in particular with this informative environment and the application of new technologies and revitalisation in library work. We in the SRS with our amendments, especially those related to the national and state-of-the-art role of libraries, strive to preserve the traditional role of libraries in addition to modernization processes in the library. We have proposed to our amendments to the name of the Bill in Library Law (Library). The old Serbian language name "book" highlights the purpose of affirming the old Serbian speech, that is, the old Serbian dictionary from the crowds of various foreigners. If the Serbian statehood is already restored, a Serbian state sign, it is necessary to restore both language and freedom from foreign words and introduce historic Serbian terms that have left over our new nations from the former Yugoslavia. The words "informative action" in the name of this law are completely excessive. By its very essence, in the library institution, there is a wealth of scientific and cultural information and the words "informative action" in me do not need to be particularly highlighted. In this law, as well as in the Law on the Rare Book, the AP Kosovo and Metohija and its Regional National and University Library of Kosovo and Metohija were elected, again in connection with this, we from the SRS have submitted amendments that, if adopted, would correct this deficit because the existing language formulation and form of the law deletes AP Kosovo and Metohija from the cultural space of RS. By amendment to Article 5, we have highlighted the national and state components that are missing in this law. By amendment to Article 28, we have introduced the University Library in Belgrade, and this has already been said by counterpart Moma Markovic that she is not mentioned at all in this law. Then we submitted an amendment to Chapter 8 with a proposal to supplement the title "both the National and University Library of Kosovo and Metohija" after the words "Mother of Serbia". Furthermore, after Article 35 of the amendment, we inserted a new member of 35a entitled "The National and University Library of Kosovo and Metohija" in line with previous members who talk about the tasks of the National Library in Belgrade and the tasks of the Matica Srpska Library in Novi Sad. On the other hand, I welcome the decision to put the draft law in a mandatory copy of the publication on the agenda for respecting the provisions of the Law on Cultural Goods. In practice, this provision was often violated by the failure to provide a mandatory copy to the competent libraries, i.e. the National Library and the Matica Sr. Library. We extended the obligation to deliver a mandatory copy to the National and University Library of Kosovo and Metohija and the Library of the Mother of Serbia. The National Library of Serbia, by the Law on Mandatory Sample, lost its position as the central library of the RS, which it has under the Law on Cultural Goodness of the Republic of Slovenia, which is now in legal colliding with this bill. Now the Matica Srpske Library is self-determining a mandatory specimen. Does this lead to autonomy and library? Perhaps with the time of the Mother of Serbs library, she will grow into a library of Vojvodina. We've submitted more amendments just about the University Library. That would be about it. By the time I mentioned the Cultural Goods Act, your predecessor, Minister Nebojsa Bradic promised that the government would prepare a draft law on archives, and you have already responded that this very important law is in preparation. I've been working the archives for years, 11 years. I've been through all the stages, so it would be very necessary for that law to be passed as soon as possible. It is my fellow archivists who ask me, when you will pass this very important law, that finally the area is legally separated, as required by the rules of the archival profession. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57817	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57818	Dear MPs, believe me, with the flaw, you haven't had sex with either of you, nor have I ever heard in this room that someone with a flaw has been plowing. So, quite correctly, I just gave additional notices because I think I'm carrying part of the guilt, and I said that different resolution ministers in the government have been very helpful in just getting what we're talking about today, to get the conditions that urgently before the summer break, now that there's a possibility, we all together adopt a whole series of laws that are necessary. As part of this, there were several data, so I only informed the Belgrade Declaration why it was a first step and a great success. I understand from everything you say that's exactly what you support, that conditions are finally created. Let's not talk about the past is not in this case a place to create conditions to make available all the construction, all the material goods, and it's up to us when we talk about the competent culture ministers and it's not, so it's possible that I misrepresented myself when I told you it wasn't just an ex Yugoslavia. That's why I said from Italy to Moldova they're signatories. From Slovenia to Turkey. So it is clear that it is a much wider cultural heritage, not an ex Yugoslavia. But that information serves because I'm aware that due to the urgency of the procedure it may not have been possible by the no-brona, and I realized that everyone today is in the discussion. It's possible to overlook some data. And here's the second time, I know you wouldn't be doing it, I guess, actually, although I learned in this room that a whole series of data is being displayed because of voters. I have to keep it from happening, and Mr. Markovic mentioned it. Please, the library and information systems of the Republic of Serbia form Article 9. National Library of Serbia, Matica Serbian, National and University Library "Ivo Andric" in Kosovo and Metohija, University Library "Svetozar Marković" in Belgrade, Public Library network in the Republic of Serbia, Network of all other types of libraries and information centres in the Republic of Serbia, school, higher education, university libraries, libraries of scientific and research institutions and institutions and special libraries. So it's simply, I guess, not a lapus, but an oversight in reading, because of the speed, because you've been preparing for the session and you haven't paid attention to Article 9, everything is basically, which is why we insist, and now I'm talking about the people of the library, so we can network everything, and now I remind you, why I went to Hilandar, not just to check how it's being built, but to see what degree digitization and construction came to. It will be possible to network further, because the Serbian Matica has created conditions, the National Library of Serbia has created conditions, conditions are created and in some of these, there should be added to the SANU Library and I think it will change someone. It's been released, but in these last parts, it's meant to be. So the goal is that no one stays out of the system because they would be available to users. Don't worry, this is just a notice, everything that's changed, treats the matter that's been missed, and of course we'll sit together and it's my only request to the chairman of the Assembly or the chairman of the board, who's taking care of it, if it's the board's session, and I think you've informed me that the amendments won't be here before Monday, but if it's a board session on Friday, we could all, unfortunately, I'm not there, for the same reason, I have to travel to Rome tomorrow, so I understand the defense, I don't think anyone can claim anything, if you're really keeping it adequate. I'm going to open an exhibition tomorrow at the Vatican, our frescoes. I think that's how culture is represented, not political pamphlets. I guess most of you support it. I remind you once again, all of these institutions are here, all of these libraries, and in addition, as you asked and drew attention to how important this is, we're going to add the law on the archives, end up, and hopefully you'll all help bring it in September, allow the networking of the entire building that is important, so that we really know what and how we can protect it. It is the obligation of all of us, I say once again, to protect both ours and ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57819	The word has Mr. Momir Markovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57820	Mr. Minister, it's a shame I didn't find out you were going to the Vatican, I could've given you books, say, "A joint criminal project of an artificial Croatian nation," so that you had some kind of omen, I believe that you have an omen, but to complete...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-05-0.u57821	You can't talk like that, you don't have a word. The honourable MPs, since no one who has not applied the right of Article 96 does not appear for a word, and there is no one left on the lists of registered MPs, I am concluding a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Library Information Action, the Proposal for a Law on Old and Rare Library Construction and the Proposal for a Law on a Mandatory Example of Publications. I thank you for your participation in the work. We will obviously not discuss the amendments until Monday. I thank the minister and his associates. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
