ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51916	I just have to comment on something that we all see, but we're all kind of quiet. We don't have a government official here. Last time, the other day, we broke up the session because of it. I'd like you to, if you can, answer me if we're going to get a representative or not? You've read who's in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51917	You weren't when I said there was an authorised representative at the Security Committee session in the Assembly building, Minister Ivica Dacic, that he or she would then join us. There's a government associate here who'll pass on all our suggestions and content of exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51918	I'm very grateful that you tried to explain something to us that's impossible. If it were possible to convince government officials what we said here, then they wouldn't have an obligation to come here. You read Mrs. Malovic, that she was authorized. I think it'd be right if someone even puts out a few sentences of what we're defending here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51919	I'm sorry. It's about conventions. Therefore, an authorised proposing representative would certainly not have elaborated the content of the conventions. The government absolutely has and will have all the information regarding our participation in the debate. The authorised representative of the Committee, therefore, cannot be in both places in the Assembly building, but, in essence, he would not be able to answer the question why one convention has such content.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51920	These are bill proposals, president, not conventions. All right, I was just trying to remind you that there's something called the Rules of Procedure, and now I'm going to use the time of the authorised representative. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. I was just trying to advertise the Rules of Procedure, so I answered the Rules of Procedure before I started using the time of the parliamentary group. The lady also reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51921	You've received your word as president of your parliamentary group. I'll take a minute, considering we had a dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51922	Okay. Since the DSS cannot use its Rules of Procedure for 24 minutes, or 20 minutes, I as the group's authorised representative, because you're trying to explain something that doesn't stand, I won't miss the chance to talk about what I'm about to talk about today because I think it's very important. Unlike government representatives, who do not need to talk about important things, representatives, or DSS MPs, and how they need to talk about important things. Since you put together bill proposals here that are quite different, it seems to me that the division that was made in my parliamentary group is far too high. Some of my colleagues will talk about conventions, or laws, proposals for extradition laws and so on, and I will base my story on this latest, draft law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on veterinary co-operation. So, the Serbian government and its efforts to present Serbia as a very serious agricultural, agrarian country, but everything it does shows how much it actually thinks of Serbia as a agricultural and agrarian country. According to the potential, of course, Serbia can be that way, but as the government does, it will remain really long only on having the capacity. An example of how this country treats agriculture is frequent shortages of milk, oil and sugar. The best way to say about the state of agriculture is that the stock fund was ruthlessly destroyed in the past year and reduced by 110,000 cattle throats; in the last two decades the total rate of reduction of the livestock stock was between 3% and 4%. Meat production fell from 600,000 tonnes to 457,000 tonnes. How serious the situation in Serbia is when it comes to livestock production and the fact that we have fulfilled the import-export quota approved by the European Union for June meat, of 9,000 tonnes, only at one-fifth level, i.e. we have exported only 1,600 tonnes. In addition, Serbia has problems with the shortage at any moment, i.e. with the lack of some kind of meat; we are witnessing, a few months ago it was pork, animal meat and so on. This shows that this government has absolutely no strategy in terms of agriculture, nor does it have a strategy when it comes to land policy, which must be the basis and base of any reform in this direction. The data I'm about to provide is completely true, although they seem amazing. Only in 2009 and early 2010, we imported 1,300,000 euros in agricultural products, and the products that preceded the imports were onions, potatoes and apples. Does this seem like something that can be imported into a country that's agricultural? We imported, believe it or not, and 400 tons of raspberries, which we like to say are our export chances, not to say they're our export brand! However, Serbia is still achieving a surplus when it comes to food, but it is the UN organisation for food and agriculture, so-called. The FAO organization warns that we have reached some limit and that we will quickly become addicted if we continue with this practice to import everything and everything, as far as food is concerned. In Serbia, 41.4kg of pig, beef, livestock, sheep meat and fish were spent per capita in 2009. That amount is 2.7 kilograms less than in 2006. If we compare those two years, 2006 and 2009, we will notice that for all kinds of meat other than livestock, which is cheapest, the decline in consumption is recorded. It is believed that the economic conditions in which this country is located are the reason. Thanks to this irresponsible government, which loves to say for itself and beats itself to social responsibility, the purchasing power of Serbian citizens has been reduced, while retail prices have been increased. Because of those who constantly like to oppose and believe that the data I use is not credible, I will say that these are data from the comparative analysis "Meat consumption in the Republic of Serbia", whose authors are Branislav Vlahovic, professor of Agriculture Faculty in Novi Sad and Master Anton Puskaric, a researcher at the Belgrade Institute for Agricultural Economics. If we compare what I said about Serbia with what's happening in the world now, we'll see an incredible difference. When it comes to world meat consumption, the consumption is 56.8kg per capita, which is 15.5kg more than in Serbia. When we talk about the European average, that's all we have to worry about. The European average is 97.4kg, as much as 56kg more than in Serbia. Here I'm going to list the source: these are the World Food and Agriculture Organisation reports and something from our Republic Statistics Office. There are other things that make us different from Europe. Let's say, unlike the European countries, where the fresh meat to which the period of time has expired burns or ends up being processed for animal food, stale meat in Serbia is somehow re-emerged at consumer tables in Serbia and Serbia's citizens. Here is the information, published by "Blic", on 7 March 2011: experts say that meat is often returned to the meat table in the form of cevapi and burgers, in the form of reprocessings such as salamis or sausages, or in shops that serve as meat roasters. Merchants and veterinary inspection, which made it natural for me to be a representative of the government here, because he could say whether what I'm saying is true or not, claim that they don't play with their reputation and that neither trade nor veterinary inspection would allow this meat to be sold, nor to be found on citizens' tables, but the data on the ground obviously speak anything quite different. Serbia's National Consumer Organisation President Goran Papovic argues that the organisation daily receives complaints from meat consumers buying, both in large and small shops. I'm deliberately undermining, because in large stores, megamarkets usually say they wouldn't allow it and blame it on small shops. Mr. Papovic says – most often people complain about the unpleasant smell and taste of fresh meat; merchants convince them that the meat they sell has a slightly stronger smell is not a big deal and that consumers can extract that scent by immersing the meat in a chamomile tea. This is inadmissible because for profit reasons they are played with consumer health. Mr. Papovic continues – when the meat expires, it should be destroyed, not returned to consumers as a fresh kevap, sausage or roasted steak. We believe so (beware, data! ) 90% of the meat to which the deadline has expired finds again on the tables of consumers. We believe that the veterinary inspection requires the destruction of such meat, but we never got feedback that it was actually done. The veterinary inspection further says that only last year and only in Belgrade seized 18,130 kilograms of broken meat, while in January 2011, only 430kg of meat was seized in Belgrade. What did they find? They say in the inspection that during the control, there have been several irregularities: from incomplete declarations, then, there are no stamps on meat, through changes in organoleptic properties, which are color and smell, for example, to meat with an expiry date. The last time I spoke here was the presence of Minister Dragin, who at the time claimed that everything I was saying was not possible and that if I had any knowledge of where such meat was sold, I should inform him, him and the state authorities who would investigate it. However, Serbia was buzzing at the time, having an affair, so-called. Brazil meat, had an affair of meat smuggled from Kosovo, and those were facts. Mr. Dragin is no longer a minister, and I think now that he's gone, he might change his mind, but that's not going to mean anything to Serbia, of course. Until he left, he left changes and additions to the Veterans Act. That's his capital he left to Serbia. These changes and additions have actually made a big difference and the situation that “the goat guards the cabbage. ” The consequence of all this is what I'm saying right now. Serbia won today, not today, but these days, a new agriculture minister, a lawyer. It is a very large contribution, a major contribution to agriculture, given what Mr. Minister has been doing so far. But I'm not gonna deal with the team. I expect concrete and serious steps from the new minister, of course and rapid steps, to protect consumers, because that's what I'm talking about. First of all, I think the minister has to pass a sublegal act, which apparently Dragin didn't bring. I think it is necessary to establish a national food safety council as soon as possible. When I mentioned the national food security council, and given the point I'm talking about, I have to talk about one fact, a few things that have upset the Serbian public very much and that have to say something, given that former Minister Dragin has made it very unwise for the public to explain that he does not know what this is about, and that he later admitted that this law is on legal analysis. Of course, it's a draft new law that needs to legalise the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. Mr. Dragin then said it wasn't possible, that while he was a minister he wouldn't go through with it. Obviously, he is no longer a minister, so we now expect something similar, because the bill is over, the bill is finished and is in legal analysis. Now I would like to comment on something that is due to what Mr Dragin was saying, and what the Serbian public was reacting to, which is so-called. Codex alimony. One large meat factory was advertised by adding to its products the standards prescribed by Codex alimentarius. The head of the veterinary inspection said that, as far as he's concerned by veterinary inspections, it's another plus for this company and that he doesn't see what the problem is and why the public is complaining. He further attributed all this to the proverbial Serbian ignorance. I would like to clarify now what this is all about, so that the Serbian public is informed, because I think this is very important. What's Codex alimony? It is a set of rules for full control of agriculture, agricultural products, food, from seeds to finished products. The name is Latin and means food regulations, so the world food law. The code implies a phase-out and ban, watch out, unmodified food! For example, in Iran, which did similar things to Serbia and destroyed its seeds, it is forbidden for peasants to sow healthy seeds even in their garden. Of course, there is only ‘Monsant’ seed in the game, which is imported by one company in this country. Furthermore, the use of vitamins, minerals and medicinal plants is prohibited, in general, natural ingredients and natural medicine. The Code further requires the mandatory use of growth hormone and antibiotics in the breeding of animals grown for milk and meat; then, the use of herbicides and mandatory radiation, to keep meat or seeds longer fresh. The food production is once again reintroduced by the law-free poisons, such as dodithium. It is further prohibited that food labels indicate that genetically modified organisms are in the food, so that people will not know what they are eating, nor will they know why they are sick. Who's gonna treat them? Well, the pharmaceutical factories behind this whole story. Let's see what criteria in food production are allowed by this code and why these meat factories are so wanted. Introducing GMO food on a global level... In addition, products no longer have to say that some product is GMOs, and so far it has been mandatory. Then more than 300 different additives are introduced, mostly synthetic, which are authorised as "safe". Among them are: aspartame, BHT, potasium bromat and the like. They have been treated as carcinogenic so far and have been banned from human and animal use. It is no longer mandatory or necessary to mark animals that have been genetically modified, and this has been mandatory so far. Eco-producers are allowed to subject their products to radiation in order to keep meat fresh longer. Eco-product labels shall not indicate the ingredients of inorganic origin. Elevated concentrations of more than 3,275 pesticides in food, including those directly carcinogenic or disruptive, are allowed. Is this about consumer safety? Here is a reply from the Commissioner of the Veterinary Department of Slobodan Šibalic – I must stress that it is about the rules on quality, not about food safety. So if it's something of quality, then it's food safety. The Ministry doesn't think this is a problem at all. But that's why experts warn, I have here who these experts are, that antibiotics, hormones, many drugs and additives, when found in food, cause premature full-grown children, which then leads to cancer, especially uterine cancer and breast cancer in the twenties. Is it mandatory to sign this? No, but if we want to be a member of the World Trade Organisation then it's mandatory, then Codex alimony is required. If we want to be an EU member, then it's mandatory. Even our very good friend, the US Ambassador to Serbia, Mrs. Warlik, says it would be very good for Serbia to sign the Codex. Good for us with all this. If you do not understand, here is a very bold conclusion: therefore, this is a biological blow to Serbian soil and to Serbian citizens. Think about it. Any kind of co-operation should come to mind, but this one doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51923	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51924	I'm reporting on the basis of article 27. Rules of Procedure. It is about the fact that it is not only the member that has been injured, but, I would say, the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, what you yourselves have accepted as chairman, particularly you, Mrs Djukić Dejanović – that the sessions of parliament in the plenary work cannot be done unless we have a representative of the Government. You probably weren't well informed; the moment you said the government's representative in the second room, on the Security Committee, that committee didn't start working. Whether there were no government representatives, whether there was no quorum, no matter, but you did not give the right information to the MPs or to the public. Your argument that we do not need a representative of the government because it is a matter of conventions and agreements, because all of this is on the agenda today, you will hear especially in the debates of the MPs of the SRS, of exceptional importance for all citizens of Serbia, especially for national state interests. Indeed, if you wish to violate the Rules of Procedure or to violate what you yourself have adopted as a rule, not to argue without the presence of a representative of the Government, you can, but then say so. Don't, please, give the wrong information, probably based on the fact that you're misinformed, I don't think you'd do it on purpose. But here's the information for both the MPs and the general public: there was no work of the Security Committee at the moment when you informed us that we couldn't have a representative of the government, because it's in second place. And even if it were, it's about what we keep telling you -- it's not good to schedule board sessions at the same time when the plenary sessions are, because this is still serious work, in this plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51925	Mrs. Radeta, the board meeting is scheduled by the board president. I've given the information I've received from professional services, and you, as someone who knows the Rules of Procedure extremely well, know there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Are you satisfied with the answer? No, I don't. In the day of the vote, we will declare whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I give my word to MP Boris Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51926	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, once again, representatives of the government, at their own discretion, have brought together certain points, which have very little to do with each other or have no connection with each other, but what is there. So, we are currently discussing the proposal for a law confirming the Third Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Extraditation, where we will point to all the gaps that occurred in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to extradition, as well as the bad treatment that the Republic of Serbia has in the international community, regarding extradition; of course, in that international community that you trust so much, which you are calling for on your way to the EU and NATO Pact, according to Mr Sutanovac. We will also discuss the proposal for a law confirming the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons against Forced Peters. This is indeed the right topic to address the dramatic cases of human rights violations of detainees in Serbia itself, but, as you know, the Serbs in The Hague tribunal, where detention seems to have become a forced disappearance, i.e. closing your face on plus infinitely, in order to achieve a conviction. There is, above all, your most obvious example, Professor. Vojislav Seselj, who spent eight years in the detention of The Hague tribunal without a first-degree ruling, had recently concluded that the prosecution had recently completed carrying out the evidence, and even the chairman of Judge Jean-Claude Antoneti last year in a decision concerning Mladic's diaries had ruled out an opinion and stated that the length of the proceedings with Vojislav Seselj had brought down the world record, therefore, that this was the longest procedure in the stage ever conducted in the world. Of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia, instead of fulfilling orders coming from the UN tribunal, would have to react, even in principle, on this basis, because basic human rights are being violated, basic international conventions are being violated. Of course, it's more and more like a forced disappearance. I would also like to remind you that other Serbs have been detained at The Hague tribunal in a similar situation. Someone may say that the UN tribunal's theme has nothing to do with this, however, the UN tribunal dictates the principles under which the Serbian judiciary works, so that in these laws they gave you principles, whether directly, whether through the EU or the United States, on which you have to work, which you must adhere and do not stand down for the pedal either. By exercising and respecting these principles, you are in violation of, above all, the human rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are Serbian nationalities. For what? Because the concept is very simple. According to the UN tribunal's concept, of course, Brussels and Washington, Serbs must be blamed for everything, so they must be criminals, and all others must be their victims. This is what you do through the functioning of the judicial system in Serbia. As for detention in the Republic of Serbia, I would like to remind you of the cases of Krst Milovanovic and Mladen Obradovic, who are also detained for incomprehensible reasons. One amazing situation, we have to ask this question – why did the authorities not initiate criminal proceedings against the parade organizers on October 10th, who used for promotional purposes the services of the famous Dutch paedophile Frank van Dalen, who also participated in the conferences of the organizers of the parade, and who participated in the parade itself? Instead, keep in custody people who have stood up against this pedophilia. I remind you that in the Netherlands, Van Dahlen is charged with abuse of minor boys, and he advocates the participation of children from 12 to 16 years of age in these parades. You need to think about it. When it comes to the other draft laws, you have put here one draft law on extradition and agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, also related to illegal stay; then, a bill confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the BiH Council of Ministers on police co-operation. Do we really have police co-operation and what co-operation we have with BiH? I'm sure we have with the Republika Srpska. Have you ever asked what happens to mujahidin who participated in the war against Serbs in BiH? Did you ask what was going on, say, with Muhammad Att, who was involved in terrorist attacks on New York and Washington on September 11th? He's trained in BiH, but he's not the only one. He died in that action, but the whole network stayed there. Did you ask what happened to Safet Catovic, who also participated in the war against the Serb people, and is also one of the organisers of the terrorist attack on New York and Washington on September 11th? He was on a BiH mission to the United States. So very interesting. Did you ask a question for other connected persons when we talk about regional police co-operation or judicial co-operation? Khalid Sheikh Muhamed, the second indictee of terrorist attacks against the United States, fought against the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija and had a unit there. Did you talk about the whole network of terrorists who fought against Serbs? No, instead you entered into negotiations with representatives of the illegal authorities from Kosovo and Metohija, and thus you are in fact recognising Kosovo and Metohija. You want to sign an economic agreement. It doesn't matter who signed anything on behalf of the government about CEFTA for the 2006 Free Trade Agreement. It is your actual recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. You appointed the team, you sent them to the negotiations, and the main mediator in those negotiations, Robert Cooper, the man who was Tony Blair's adviser, repeatedly said he considered Kosovo and Metohija independent and expressed highly anti-Serbian views. Otherwise, a man who wrote in his book "The Breaking of Nations" that double standards, fraud and methods from previous times should be applied whenever working outside the EU. So, an immoral man. You accepted the middleman who wrote the book "Breaking Nations"! Scary. You have also put forward proposals for legislation on the validation of the World Radio and Veterinary Cooperation Conference's final acts, which is a special, very serious topic, which we will talk about later. However, you have left out a very important bill from this list, which is a bill to confirm the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Libya on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic, official and special passports. It's diplomatic, special passports, and you left it out of the agenda, even though it was scheduled. For what? Because you want to follow EU and US policies and put some pressure on Libya, which has helped us so much in the past. I will remind you of just one detail, on February 25th 2011, "The Economist" announced that he was visiting the leader of the Libyan Islamic Jamaica, Gaddafi, and Bedžet Pacolli, who asked Gaddafi to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. With contempt, Gaddafi rejected the proposal, and Pacolli, with his delegation, forced them to dance and sing. He says, since you're American poodles and American puppets, then you should act like one, here, and in this place. When the songs ran out, Gaddafi threw them out and, of course, refused to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. We now need to attack such a man and such a people, who have always stood behind the Serbian people, to join in this way, regarding the agreement on diplomatic passports, therefore, one technical detail, to interfere with the internal affairs of Libya. And why was Libya attacked? Yes, I would really like to congratulate the Pink people who published an interview with Gaddafi on this occasion. It was first heard in the world that these conflicts in Libya, the alleged Gaddafi repression of Western media fiction, that the situation there was indeed quite peaceful at that time. What was Libya attacked for? The entire conflicts in Africa have been staged, so Tunisia, Egypt, Yemen, etc. They were staged to get to Libya, because Libya has huge oil reserves. Libya is the fifth country in the world in oil reserves, has 50 billion barrels of oil. You have a similar event at Ivory Coast, why so-called The international community doesn't react there? Here the sole goal is to overthrow Gaddafi from power, to kidnap natural resources from the Libyan people, because that is the principle by which the West works. You know, the United States, that's 5% of the world's population, that spends 30% of the world's resources and makes a third of the planet's garbage. This is how the United States works, thus ensuring the well-being of its citizens, and that is how the EU works. Of course, imperial forces still want to be imperial, no matter what they formally end up with imperialism. So, in reality, they're not. It is a shame that the Republic of Serbia joins any sanctions directed against Libya and the Libyan people, because, as I said, they have always given us support. As far as the proposed legislation is concerned, when it comes to the additional protocol, the Third Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Extradition, the European Convention of 1957 and the Bill on Police Co-operation with BiH, in that part, you state that the main objective is to prevent and shed light on criminal acts. However, the question arises what does extradition look like in practice in the first place, and what does this police co-operation look like? The best we've seen through the examples of Tihomir Purda, we've seen through the examples of Ejup Ganic, we've seen through examples of so-called. Gjilan groups, we saw through the examples of the Wildlings, we saw through the example of Ilija Jurisic. As you know, the Serbian prosecutor's office has dropped the prosecution of Croatian criminal Tihomir Purda, who committed a large number of crimes in Vukovar. For what? Is it because of the pressures that existed, related to the extradition process, is it because the EU, because the United States has previously sabotaged the extradition of some persons Serbia has sought on the basis of perfectly legal and well-founded warrants? Why did the Serbian prosecution, the legal system in Serbia, give up Ilija Jurisic, who is suspected of killing at least 50 and wounding 44 soldiers and elders in Tuzla? What's he freed for? He was welcomed there by the Croats as a national hero. So how is that possible? Why did it give up Ejup Ganic, Voluntary Street? Very precise data, 1992, on the murder of 50 people and the wounded of 73 members of the JNA, unarmed. It's a serious crime. How does the extradition work anyway, by you? Why do you sign these agreements when in practice it's impossible, when in practice you're just closing Serbs? For the murder of a man here, the legal system imposes a fine of 240 years in prison, and for the murder and brutal torture of Serbs, 80 Serbs, it imposes a prison sentence of 101 years. Where are the principles? So, for a man who has not been Serbian for 240 years, for 80 killed and brutally tortured Serbs 101 years in prison! How is that possible? Are those European standards? Don't call the law, it won't help you. A serious state always finds ways to react to things like this. Simply, persons who have committed such terrible crimes as this Gnjilan group cannot easily pass with such punishments. They had to get maximum sentences, and a lot more. This is all happening because these are EU and tribunal standards in The Hague, which is what the EU is asking you to do. The European Union asks you to give up Purda, to give up Jurisic, to give up prosecution of perpetrators of the most serious crimes against Serbs. Why? As I told you at the beginning, because Serbs must be blamed for this plan for everything, and everyone else must be their victims. The Belgrade Military Court archive contains very well-produced documentation, 12 or 13 cases, 66 indicted for war crimes against Serb civilians. None of you have looked at that file. Why? Because it is unpopular from the corner of Brussels and Washington to talk about Serbian victims, because Serbs cannot be victims according to their concept. On the other hand, as I told you, Purda and Jurisic were welcomed as heroes in Croatia. But Croatia has made a list of 1534 persons suspected of alleged crimes in Croatia. These are primarily Serbs from Republika Srpska, which is currently under occupation, but others. There are also citizens of Serbia. So they have a list of minors for 1534 people and they're constantly expanding that list. You want proof that the EU does not respect the rules concerning extradition and that it does not treat Serbia as an equal partner, that Serbs are treated as low-class, can we even say as a lower race? They used to do that to those from the West. Well, here's, "Dece Vel," an official German agency, which decides who will enter the EU and who will not, recently published the text in March -- Serbia in search of a justification for the war. They say: "Agim Ceku, Ilija Jurisic, Ejup Ganic, Tihomir Purda, Jovan Divjak, these are people Serbia decided after 15-20 years to search through Interpol's war crimes warrants for which, it turns out, there is no evidence. “ They argue that Serbia has no evidence, and the Serbian prosecutor's office, Serbian police, BIA, and remained full of evidence of these crimes, including intercepted talks, including the participation of some of these persons or persons associated with them in human organs trafficking. Yes, gentlemen, trafficking in human organs of abducted Serbs began in Tudjman's Croatia, continued in Izetbegovic's BiH and ended in Kosovo and Metohija and northern Albania. This includes Richard Holbrook, the American Bondsteel Base; the end-user of these organs was also the Royal Hospital in London, but also some other institutions from the West. From one body, they did not receive 100,000 or 200,000 euros, but from 20,000,000 to 40,000,000 euros. That's what a monster mob is. Also, "Dajce Vel" calls these Croatian criminals "Croatian defenders", accuses Serbia of reviewing history; says Mrs. Biserko, whose brother died as a member of the ZNG; there is also Natasa Kandic, who in the third volume of "Police File", Vojislav Seselja, who is listed as an AOS associate or an American intelligence service. He says: “Serbia is returning, seeking these faces, in the logic of the 1990s. ” This means that, from the corner of the European Union, Serbs can only be criminals. So, why sign all these documents if they're practically invaluable? You first have to fight that Serbia has equal treatment in the world, and after ten years of courting the West, you have failed to do so. See why “Dece Vele” states this – of course, because one of the BND’s officials, Klaus Derner, gathered the so-called 70s. Krajačić's Ustasha Circle, whose head was of course Krajačić and which included Josip Manolić, Josip Boljekovac, Franjo Tuđman, Stjepan Mesic and others. They were in charge of breaking the old Yugoslavia, in the interest of the GNI, the German intelligence service. You see how all this is connected. It's just some details. But what do you need to do? Instead of working with the EU, turn to Russia. Vladimir Putin arrives on March 23rd, a great friend of the Serbian people. Defend the South Stream. Do not let Serbia become the "soft belly of the South Stream", in the interests of the United States, and turn to Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51927	Before I give my word to the next speaker, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the authorised representative of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group is MP Miletic Mihajlovic, and the authorised representative of the MEP ZES National MP Miroslav Marinkovic. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Excuse me, MP. People's MP Riza Halimi wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. It's a misunderstanding. Please accept my apology. I understand you're asking if you're the first on the list? Yes, it is. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51928	Madam Chairman, I think it's Article 107, the dignity of the Assembly, because a little while, a lot of incorrect, arbitrary claims have been made, and I have to respond to that. She's mentioned so-called. The Gjilan group, 101 years in prison, was issued in the first degree for them; it was compared to this last case when 240 years were committed in one murder. However, it should continue that far less years have been said for the murder of 50 old men, women and children in the Suvoj River; and also, a procedure that has been barely processed by our legislation for the second time. When it comes to the so-called. The gjilan group, we still have to say that it's... It was 80, first it was 35, 50, and then 80 Serbs killed in Gjilan and the surrounding area, no names, no place, all based on one of the associates' witnesses. All other witnesses were mostly Serbs from Gjilan who had missing family members, murdered family members, but none brought them directly with a group that had been processed. I hope that in the second degree, the court will be at the height of the task, to investigate all circumstances until the end, or, if there is not enough evidence, the release...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51929	Two minutes. The National MP, an infringement of article 107, implies that the dignity of some of the MPs was compromised and that I violated the Rules of Procedure for not being interrupted. I can't tell which of the MPs is telling the truth, except in cases where they're talking about events I personally attended, and even then I have no right to consider it a violation of the Rules of Procedure until he explains it. So, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think he's a injured member of 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because Mr. Riza Halimi did not speak essentially of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, did not explain what and in what way Mr. Boris Alexic allegedly, according to him, endangered the dignity of the National Assembly, but, in fact, under the company's injury to the Rules of Procedure, used the right to replication, in a way that is quite degutant. Mr. Riza Halimi bids with Serbian victims in Kosovo and Metohija, questioning and relativating the crimes of the Gjilan group against Serb people, who were truly terrible, primarily by the way these crimes were committed. If you have carefully followed the presentation of Mr. Riza Halimi, this is practically a logic dating back to 1987, from the case of Djorđa Martinović – Stane Dolanc convinced, or tried to convince Djorđa Martinović that he had injured himself with a glass bottle! About Riza Halimi has the same logic: therefore, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija mainly killed themselves. There was no Gjilan group, no Hashim Thaci and the Kosovo Liberation Army, and the number of Serbs killed is not exactly as large in the Serbian courts' verdicts and in the means of public information. I would ask you, Mrs. Komic, if you are already giving a word on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, that then the MP explain what the violation of the Rules of Procedure is, rather than replicating the People's MP whose exposure he does not like. Otherwise, what Mr. Riza Halimi has done is in fact a threat to the dignity of the National Assembly and a pretty low profile of the huge Serbian victims in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51931	Two minutes. Thank you. There's no damage to article 27. The MP sought and received word that he was talking about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and explained the data he possessed, unlike the information presented by the MP, whom MP Riza Halimi believed to have compromised the reputation of the National Assembly by providing false information. I have to listen to that, as I had to listen to you. People's MP Riza Halimi wants to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to a replica. People's MP, the law of replica is decided by the chairman. Injury of the Rules of Procedure is the right you can use. Here you are, MP Riza Halimi, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51932	It was quite a foundation for 107, the dignity of the Assembly, because when it comes to one problem, very difficult, very tragic, the victims are victims. How many victims were in Kosovo? They're just Serbian victims? And where are the Albanian victims? What are we talking about? We're talking about the victims. I want to talk about the victims, when we talk, about the pie and the arguments. Otherwise, we absolutely insult them, and families of missing and victims, when arbitrary, without arguments, without proper procedure, someone processes. That's the point. I think it's a common commitment that for every tragically lost life, for every crime, everyone responds equally, and that's where we agree, but it can't be talked about with different arches. Let there be only one Serb killed, not 80, but let it be known where he was killed, the name and the name of the victim, and that they are witnesses of the crime. It's been ten years; let one year pass, and let two more pass, but let the trial be valid, objective, professional, because that's what families are looking for. They don't demand that at all costs someone be punished for their sake, but that the punishment be done by the criminals; not only take off the agenda point, anyone to punish. I don't think that's the point. That's what I'm talking about. In this regard, I advocate that for all victims, for all killed, some are Albanians, Serbs or any national belongings, guided by valid, objective, professional court proceedings. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51933	Two minutes. Thank you. The violation of the 107th would mean that MP Aleksandar Martinovic presented information that violated the reputation of the National Assembly. It's possible that you have that data, but I can't intervene and that's why the 107th member isn't hurt. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really had no intention, nor any of the Serbian Radical Party to question any victims in Kosovo and Metohija. We are the last to justify any crime, whether against members of the Serb, or on members of the Albanian people in Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Halimi, whenever someone from the SRS mentions crimes against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, you have the need to react and question and the responsibility of those who committed these crimes and the number of people killed. I don't know why there's that need in you. I want to inform you that almost everyone on the Serbian side who has been charged with war crimes in Kosovo and Metohija... The last one is General Vlasimir Djordjevic, who was sentenced to 27 years in the UN tribunal in The Hague. They've already been sentenced to long term imprisonment. I don't see that there's this edge of justice when it comes to Albanians, or when it comes to those who allegedly committed crimes on behalf of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't see anything bad happening to Hashim Thaci, I don't see anything bad happening to your countryman, Jonuz Musliu, who, as far as I know, is still the vice president of the Bujanovac municipality. So don't play the "wood lawyer" of those who killed Serbs. I deeply regret all Albanians who have suffered innocents, but let me also feel sorry for the Serbs who died in Kosovo and Metohija. Why do you think every time one of us mentions the Gjilan group, Hashim Thaci thinks we're accusing the entire Albanian people? It's the same scenario we had in Zagreb: after World War II you shouldn't have mentioned Ustasha crimes because the NDH lawyers who said, "Yeah, you're attacking the Croatian people." It's a very bad practice and it can't contribute to establishing good relationships.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51935	Two minutes. National MP, you did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure you consider to have been injured. Please don't do this. People's MP Riza Halimi wants to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51936	The president of the Bujanovac Municipality of Jonuz Musliu, it is really unclear to me in what context, especially the subject we discussed... It's really inappropriate, not to take advantage of a harsher word, that one official, legally elected in the regular elections, is mentioned in this context. I'd like to know what the occasion is, what are the motives for a legally elected official trying to muddle in this way? I think that's really inadmissible. This questioned the dignity of this congregation. There's no man here, and now there's nothing to say about him. Here you mentioned the sentence given to Vlasmir Djordjevic, or to another executive, under that command responsibility. People of God, if more than 12,000 people were killed and if there were, someone once mentioned, over a thousand years of punishment that was imposed, so is that proportional? That's why you're making a problem now that someone's been punished for 20-27 years, and more than 12,000 people have been killed in that space, innocent people, civilians, children, old people? Where is the logic of mentioning the punishment of one person who has been punished for his command responsibility in The Hague, and on the other hand you have over 12,000 civilians killed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51937	National Messenger, you did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, but you mentioned that it was a threat to the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm asking you to stop your complicity in breaking the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. (Boris Aleksic, from the site: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Boris Aleksic, from the scene: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Boris Aleksic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Please, after my sentence that there is no complicity in the common violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have very precise respect for a member by whom you can give you a word that you can also point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51938	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. That confirms my previous story. Article 103. You made a mistake, you let a gentleman across from me use an invitation to the Rules of Procedure as a replica, on several occasions. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51939	National MP, a member of 103 cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. People's MP, I invite you to take a closer look at the provisions relating to the giving of replicas. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51940	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing the proposals for legislation on treaty validation, international conventions that are in the area of creating a safer and safer environment for all citizens of our country, as well as citizens of other countries with which we regulate these issues through the confirmation of these agreements, which have also been processed in the resolutions of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. I'd like to make a few general remarks on behalf of the SPS-JS Group when it comes to the set of these laws. So, as far as yesterday we had a question of the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we discussed the need for it to be reconstructed, we realized that there were certain results in the past period, but certainly certain gaps and shortcomings in certain businesses or in certain resolutions. However, it must be noted that, taking into account all the difficulties stemming from an unfavourable economic and financial situation in the wider area, in global terms, the government has nevertheless produced good results. In particular, good results are present and recorded in individual resolutions, so over the past period, and this continues and continues, we have had a successful fight against organised crime, which is, above all, in the domain, if we look through the portfolios, the Ministry of the Interior, but also the Ministry of Justice. We also had a large capital that is in the interest of citizens, which is visa liberalisation and the creation of better conditions, worthy citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so that they can end their needs when it comes to travel, in one decent way, as well as citizens of other countries. It's very important that we've had a normal... We have had a tendency to establish normal relations and good co-operation with countries in the environment. It went towards, above all, reconciliation with countries that were part of the former Yugoslavia. There is also a significant contribution from our President of the Republic, but also from members of the government, besides the Prime Minister, and Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, who has shown great agility and activity on the international agenda in creating a better picture, related to what the Republic of Serbia is, in an effort to integrate Serbia into the international community. All of them have contributed together or, better yet, have contributed significantly to so-called. The process of Europeanising Serbia and positioning our country, the Republic of Serbia, as a reliable partner in international relations. Also, through past activity we have also had the creation of greater security in the region, and through the conclusion of various agreements and agreements on this plan with countries in the region and beyond, Serbia has certainly contributed to the creation of a better security environment in international terms. This policy of our government and our resolutions that we are talking about today in the context of the law on ratification of new conventions and contracts has yielded positive results and will certainly continue in this direction. In this part, we have a proposal for a law confirming the Third Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Extradition. It is about the extradition procedure to be carried out, according to the provisions of this Convention, quite slowly. It was necessary that through this additional protocol we make an improvement, in terms of better communication and achieving the goal at a faster pace, and for both Serbia and other countries. The issue of forced disappearances is very current today, in the 21st century, and it is very important that this issue is addressed through the Convention on the Protection of All Faces against Forced Peters. The convention defines forced disappearances. It also defines the prosecution and general rules and procedures in this part, which is a specific and very difficult crime. Then, it regulates extradition and international law and assistance in this part. By confirming this Convention, which is very significant, our country is in fact fully committed to the achievement and respect of all fundamental human rights and freedoms, respect for international humanitarian law and international criminal law. We also have confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty between these countries on Extradition, which actually refers to the extradition of its own citizens when it comes to serious criminal offences involving organised crime, crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law, corruption, money laundering, etc. We also have two agreements here on the link between Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia, which is also very important. One refers to the regulation of border traffic, which is certainly in operation, in addition to what is a security aspect and the provision of more favourable living, labour and communication conditions for citizens between the two states in border areas. This implies that our country, through its resources and our government, advocates a normal environment of life and work in all parts of our country, and even in the border zones, where perhaps in the earlier period, perhaps not on this case and on this border, of course, on some other occasions and circumstances of the different legal order and international situation, were much more difficult for the citizens, because we had these borders that were impenetrable and which made it impossible to communicate easily goods, services and people. When it comes to the draft law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the BiH Council of Ministers on police co-operation, it certainly is important. In fact, we can't go with prejudice and the mortgage of the past because these relationships were once bad and the wolf root of what was happening especially in the last decade. Simply, as a country that is facing progress and a different view of the future, which is facing integration into international flows, which is turned to what is good and not bad, we have to overcome all these difficulties and all these reasons that are rooted in the past and, on the basis of common sense and assumptions for a better and brighter future, create an environment for good co-operation with neighbours, even if they are Croats, even if it was Bosnia and Herzegovina as a Federation, etc. This, in fact, is about removing the dangers of public security. Through this co-operation, it contributes to the prevention of organised crime and terrorism, including corruption, which is a sufficient reason, among other things, for such co-operation; to create better security in border areas; then, it is co-operation in the development and exchange of personnel and all other jobs that would significantly contribute to better police functioning, especially in border areas. When it comes to this, this agreement also involves quick communication through the delivery of requests for co-operation, but in exceptional and very difficult times, when necessary, even oral requirements can be sufficient for the involvement of police capacity on both sides, which speaks in fact about us here in the Balkans, as well as in the wider space in Europe, we need to create a different environment, a different logic of communication, life and functioning of state bodies, without major and formal obstacles, and in order to create a better environment for normal life and the work of citizens. So, by signing these contracts and agreements, our government and resolution ministries, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, which was very agile and with good results (which certainly has to do with the fact that it is headed by Minister Dacic, deputy prime minister), they certainly continue in that direction. For these reasons, with the emphasis of all the positive things that we have had in the past, do not dispute that there may have been certain failures, but they have not missed the essence now, nor on the agenda, the SPS-JS Group will vote for this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51941	Fifteen minutes and forty-five seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51942	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of laws that by nature things aim to improve the quality of co-operation and relations between the countries surrounding us and other countries. What's important for defining and the quality of relationships you have in collaboration with the environment is that the more accurate and quality you define your relationships, the less the problems my predecessors have talked about. I therefore believe that the proposals for these laws on the validation of agreements from various areas represent only one step that defines closer, closer and more quality relations between us and the countries with which these agreements are signed. What is important and what I would specifically refer to is the confirmation of the agreement, let's say, a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on veterinary co-operation. Before I speak in detail about this agreement, I would like to point out that the problems that the predecessors have talked about, from all other parties, are completely understandable and these problems exist, but unless you want to establish defined relations with certain countries with which you have problems, you will not be able to solve these problems in quality. I believe that these agreements, especially in these precise areas, which enable our country to perform in one organised way on EU markets, because Serbia is certainly a European country and with a huge desire to become a member of the European Union, means that an organisation in which it could show all its opportunities and expose all its abilities should be fully accepted. I will refer to the bill confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH. Previous speaker, i.e. The colleague presented a series of findings and information that was likely with great attention, since I noticed that she was interested in the matter she was talking about, collected from various means of information, from individual people, from magazines, etc. However, the essence of the answer in such a way of thinking is that, firstly, the Serbian Parliament passed the Food Safety Act, which clearly defined the ways and procedures in which a product can be produced. It's kind of horny and scary for people when you talk about so-called. the corrupt meat, the presence on the market, etc. In one system that exists and is defined by law and regulations, exactly what can enter into production, processing, which you're talking about, because you've brought here that various dry meat products contain in themselves unquality, stale meat. So, first, the complete meat industry operates on the principles of certification of its production and this system is integrated in control through the work of the Veterinary Administration, i.e. veterinary inspections. In addition, each industry has a certificate recognised by the EU, thus these products can be found in the markets of EU member states, even though Serbia is not an EU member. These are examples from the recent past. So five meat industries can export their total production to the EU market, from processing to even fresh meat. It's almost possible on the Russian market. The same applies to milk. The story of entering into the meat industry the raw materials of suspicious origin in a mild way tells us that you do not know the system. So it is not possible to process without certification of the quality of the goods that enter it, without the permanent application of ISO systems and other systems, HCCP, which allow production control at all points and at the most important points. Please don't disturb the public by eating everything and everything. The people will eat everything and everything because they buy at the market, so products that are without a declaration and without a certificate. As for co-operation with BiH, BiH is one important market for Serbia, especially in terms of agricultural production, and harmonisation... Please, Madam Chairman, allow me to speak because I have been disabled by fellow Members. I thank you for your understanding, and I ask you to listen, we'll probably all learn something new or learn something. In addition, it is very important that by defining and signing these protocols you fully prevent from cooperating from the countries, whether in exchange, whether in direct exports or imports, moving through, or promoting some infectious disease or some problem, some infection that can be transmitted by animal traffic. Besides this, it's very important to point out that what you were talking about is smuggling. However, by defining and signing the protocol, not only this protocol, but also the protocols that are on the agenda today, we are very precisely defining relations with those we want to co-operate with, and this excludes the possibility of having non-quality products, exporting, because what is on the market in our country is subject to the same control as in the EU markets. If that were not the case, this country would not have been able to export to other markets. So, given the integrated border management system, which implies identifying the most important border crossings towards the countries in the environment, where the complete infrastructure of control, from the police, customs, phytosanitary and veterinary inspections, sets out to carry out uninterrupted controls, which means that it does not prevent the transport of goods and products and thus speed up and reduce the costs of exports, imports and transport of products... Why is this important? We, as a country that has the next period of ambition and commitment to develop agriculture, must develop this agriculture in a certain way. The first and basic condition and problem that arises in agriculture is the market. You solve it with this. This is a task that you need to realize in improving your production. This means that anyone who wants to deal with agricultural production, if they enter a system of organised production, using these protocols, will be able to export to any EU market, Soviet Union or any other country. You have an example of milk products being exported to the United States. Do you think anyone would agree to take one product out of a country where what you're saying is possible? Therefore, in order for me not to address you, I address all MPs, in my intention and desire to give accurate information. I've had a chance to learn it in time, so I'm asking you to keep that in mind in further discussion. What is also important for these protocols, they are very important, but I don't think it should be detailed to that extent, that everything is not good when it comes to this extradition protocol with Montenegro. These are technical things without which, protocol, you cannot realize one measure, regardless of good will. The ZES parliamentary group will support and vote in favour of these draft laws on the validation of the agreement, with the greatest desire to speed up the creation of quality relations with the surrounding countries and, above all, with the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51943	Ten minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The right to replica has a national MP, Milica Vojić Markovic, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51944	Madam President, Mr Marinkovic, in one you are absolutely right, it is not my profession, I am just one responsible woman and mother who cares about what and how I can buy for my family, as all Serbian citizens do. For what I've been saying, I've been giving instructions to the sources I've been using, so the World Health Organization report, the comparative analysis of experts from the Faculty of Agriculture and Institute, reports of veterinary inspection, which says that only last year has she seized 18,130 pounds of meat in Belgrade and has caused several irregularities (no meat stamps) and this clearly explains what I was saying. Second of all, you said that there were raw materials of suspicious origin in the meat industry, that I said so. I didn't say it like that, I'm absolutely sure, because I was talking about selling meat. What is this "Golden Fighter" affair if it's not what you're saying now? So it's about meat of suspicious origin, which came from the Brazilian market, Argentinean, Albanian, or I don't know what kind. So, I was just trying to open my eyes and inspection and veterinary services, open my eyes to the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, with no intention of scaring anyone, just to open their eyes to be very responsible when buying meat, because the state obviously doesn't do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51945	Right on line, MP Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51946	I'm glad, Mrs. Markovic, that you understood and understood my presentation and learned the right lesson from it. That's true, the inspection has wide open eyes and this amount of unquality meat seized or, as you say, stale meat, or how different it can be said, tells about how effective the inspection is. That's exactly what I'm talking about, that the systems that exist make it completely impossible to do it effectively, that you have your exposure and confirmed and realized that I'm right and that I'm not against your debate, but it's my desire to have the right and the right data and to be sure when you go into any store and buy something to eat for you and your family or recommend it to someone, to be sure about it. I hope that's where I've completely increased your safety.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51947	National MP Milica Vojić Markovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51948	My colleague, you and I obviously don't understand each other. You didn't convince me. Here, I'll tell you very simply, so you didn't convince me. You speak from the position of MPs belonging to the ruling coalition and are trying to say that everything is fine in the state. If you look at the facts, the facts say that on one kilo of meat that is invalid and found there are ten times as many that have not been found. So we can talk about what was found, but we can't talk about what wasn't found. On the other hand, you mentioned one more thing in your first address, which is the Food Safety Act. That's right, but the Food Safety Act doesn't talk about the Code of Alimentarius anywhere, and the Meat Industry "Matijević" applies it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51949	The People's MP Miroslav Marinkovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51950	Very short, and I won't be replicating you anymore. It is true what you say, that we should talk about what has been found and that what has not been found is ten times greater. So the same knowledge that is shown can be reciprocal to ignorance, which can be ten times greater. I'm sorry I didn't convince you, but I hope the citizens of Serbia could see for themselves. What you're saying is a job for the police, not an inspection. So if you have any knowledge that this is happening, please do a public service, including me, to protect us and our health by reporting what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51951	Another replica, MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51952	Or by picking up the data and presenting it to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51953	Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: The Parliamentary Group of Minorities, the DSS Parliamentary Group, the Prosperity Group of Serbia and the SRS Parliamentary Group. We move to the part of the session when the People’s MPs receive their word, and in order and reports for a word in a joint single search of the proposals for the laws of paragraphs 14 - 19, and paragraphs 21 and 22 of the agenda. The first registered speaker is MP Riza Halimi. National MP Donka Banovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51954	I would like to advertise Article 103(1), which says: “The MP has the right to orally point to a breach in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure... “ etc. At the beginning of this search or this item of the agenda, we received a notice from the President of the Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic that this session will be attended by a representative of the Government when the Security Committee is finished, from which we concluded that authorised Minister Ivica Dacic is busy working on the Committee and will join the MPs in discussing these very important points. That board ended half an hour ago. We still don't have a government representative. We're discussing things that are very important. So it's not true that now someone needs to convince the authorised representative what we're talking about; these are still draft laws, not non-essential conventions. I'm still interested in why different criteria apply here: yesterday we couldn't start the search until an authorised representative arrived, it was Minister Djelic, only then we started working, and today we've been doing something without an authorised representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51955	The People's Parliament, Member 103, has not been broken, because it gave you a word based on it. I ask you to use the right to speak more carefully about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. The People's MP, Riza Halimi, has a word. After him, MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51956	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government or the ministry, above all, will refer to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the regulation of the border traffic regime. The agreement between the two governments previously signed is very important. In this way, a very sensitive, important problem is regulated, because in the past 19 years, since setting the border with Macedonia, there have been many serious problems in the field, concerning the freedom of movement of citizens. I think it is right to explain that this agreement will improve and strengthen international cooperation in activities related to effective protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against crime. I have been in a situation since 1992, as president of the municipality, as president of the party, now and as an MP, that on countless occasions with officials of the Government of the Republic of Serbia (I once had opportunities with officials in Macedonia) I have been discussing this issue and so far there has been no solution. In addition to the daily problems that were at the beginning, which concerned the rights to the processing of land and property at all, after setting the border, a lot was cut off... A lot of our citizens' property remained on the other side, and vice versa. Let us take the main local road on the territory of the municipality of Presevo, Presevo-Miratovac-Lojana, towards the municipality of Lipkovo, and further towards Kumanovo; earlier it was a regular bus connection, at least ten times a day trafficked people on that route, because the settlements were inhabited two kilometers away from one and the other, and not any settlements, but four or five thousand inhabitants. Besides, they had to circle more than 25km to get involved in that main crossing, where they waited three, four, five hours during the summer due to crowds during the tourist season. It's been looking for a solution all along. There were human casualties as well. At least four citizens from the area were killed during the illegal crossing of the border, as it was difficult to adapt to these conditions, especially in the 1990s; during the embargo, there were main channels of oil and gasoline crossing from Macedonia towards Serbia. After this chaotic situation, it was very difficult to establish a normal or regular state. It cost at least four lives. The last time a 13-year-old child was killed in 2005, by members of the SRJ Army. In April 2005, the federal government then decided to open four border crossings, three on the territory of the Presevo municipality, and one on the territory of the municipality of Trgovište. The border crossing at the Shop opened last year, although there is far less need for crossing there, because these are mostly very small mountain settlements, and there is still no road to the route towards Kumanov. In the case of Presevo municipality, from 2002 to 2005, through the Coordination Body and through USAID, over 20km of the local road was reconstructed, and one of the main objectives was to open the border crossing that was covered by the government's decision of 2005. I think this agreement opens up that possibility that for a local need at that distance of 30 kilometers from one side of the border, not just through those permits... I think the right solution will be if the government's 2005 solution is realised, and that means it can definitely work that main local road on the Presevo-Lipkovo-Kumanovo route. This road passes through the largest settlements and municipalities of Presevo and the municipality of Lipkovo on the other side, in the direction of Kumanovo. I think that following this agreement, it must be directly at the opening of this border crossing with Miratovac, on our part, and Lojan from the Macedonian side, because only then would he give effect to this traffic regime agreement in the border zone. Furthermore, I would take this opportunity to point out a very important need to again, as part of the already-started dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, and the topic is fundamental – freedom of movement... In this sense, there is a road in the territory of Medvedje, also paved, Sijarinska Banja – Svirce – the village of Tudjevce, the largest in the municipality of Kamenica, and further towards Kamenica, which has been among the most important local roads in the municipality of Medvedja, which has not worked since 1999. There is also a very important local road in Presevo, the villages of Ilince, Ranatovci, Podgradje in Gjilan, which has also not worked since 1999. I think, like this agreement, which addresses very important issues concerning the freedom of movement of citizens in relation to Macedonia, should be done in the direction of Kosovo as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51957	Mr. Riza, thank you. Time's up. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51958	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Dear Mr. Cosic, since you are the only representative of a state body called the Government, at this point, respected fellow MPs, I will look back and say a few things about the bill of approval of the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons against Forced Peters. But before I move on to the very content of this convention, I'm going to point out to a representative of the government, i.e. Mr. Cosic, the name of this bill is not good. It says here: To protect all faces from forced disappearances. I can't face... Unfortunately, it can be a larger number of faces, but every face can only be forced to disappear once, so the use of the plural here is completely incorrect. However, the convention will become part of the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, and a little more could be taken into account. A team before this convention is called to the Convention, which was adopted in 1992 in the UN General Assembly, so we already have in the legislation that declaration, correctly translated, which reads: the protection of all persons from forced disappearance. So the plural here is no place, in the name of this legal act, or convention. This is an international convention that was formed in 2006; a representative of the Serbian government, I think, is then the foreign minister, signed it in early 2007. She is calling, as I said, for the 1992 UN General Assembly declaration on the protection of all persons from forced disappearance. We believe that this is a very important convention and that it is important that the Republic of Serbia has signed it, and we will confirm it here in the Assembly. First of all, the Convention provides a clear definition of what is meant by the term "forced disappearance". Forced disappearance is the arrest, detention, kidnapping or any other form of face-freeness by public authorities or persons or groups of persons acting under authority, etc. So a precise definition is given of what is a forced disappearance – kidnapping, deprivement of freedom, etc. The preamble says what all states of the signatories of this convention are bound to do. Among other things, states are said to be aware that committing a violent disappearance is a crime, and sometimes it can be considered a crime against humanity. It further states that states are determined to prevent the crime of forced disappearance and to fight the phenomenon that such a crime remains unpunished. The right of the victim to justice and compensation, the right of the victim to know the truth about the circumstances of a forced disappearance and the fate of a missing person, the right to freedom to request, receive and communicate information about it. So it's all very precisely stated in the preamble to this convention. By confirming this Convention, our country expresses its readiness to respect fundamental human rights and freedoms, international humanitarian law and international criminal law. Speaking of this convention, the topic of a large number of Serbs and non-Albanians who were abducted in Kosovo in the 1990s and killed in northern Albania and became victims of organ traffickers is inevitably being imposed. At the end of last year, the world went through the information that the rapporteur of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Swiss Dick Marti, by interest of the Doctor of Legal Sciences, reported that in Kosovo and Metohija and northern Albania there was something that did not happen in Nazi camps during World War II, which is that Serbs, but also some other people who were opponents of the Kosovo Liberation Army and Hashim Thaci were first kidnapped, killed, and immediately after that, their vital authorities were removed, which then became the subject of trade in the world criminal market of organs. The report also contains a number of charges against Hashim Thaci, as well as top US, European Union and NATO pact officials having information that the KLA is not an army that is fighting for the freedom of the Albanian people in Kosovo and Metohija, but that it is a group of armed people who smuggle drugs, weapons and, among other things, organs. So, representatives of the international community in Kosovo and how they knew who they were dealing with and what was happening in Kosovo and Metohija when the Serbian security forces withdrew. The report suggests that all actors of an independent Kosovo... that this project was created in a bloody and barbaric way. The question is, why are the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia silent about all this? Why does Serbia not have a clear view of how and who should investigate these heavy accusations that appeared in a report made by an MP in the Council of Europe? It is very often an excuse that Serbia is not dealing with this problem or report or the need to investigate the report because it then looks like politicisation. That's an offensive excuse. So the fact that someone will interpret it as politicising does not mean that it is an excuse that the Serbian state authorities are not dealing with this problem. In addition to showing the depth of the crime on which the independence of Kosovo Albanians was built, Dick Marti also showed that the government has persistently avoided protecting its national interests. Of course, this did not begin with the Council of Europe's report, which is unfortunately a regular occurrence since 2008 or since this country has been run by the ZES coalition with other parties. This government practically runs one policy that could be defined as a policy of self-denial or self-negation. She knows by which time she missed an opportunity to do something to eventually reverse the course of the diplomatic battle for Kosovo. The policy of total indemnity or self-indulgence best illustrates Boris Tadic's statement immediately after the Council of Europe adopted the report, where he said, among other things, that Serbia would negotiate with Hashim Thaci, no matter what. Instead of openly stressing that Serbia will never sit with the same table with a terrorist like Thaci, he says immediately at the start that nothing can disrupt the talks Serbia will have with Kosovo, and that in Brussels. As Serbia attends these meetings, I will not call them negotiations, which are happening in Brussels, so in the middle of Brussels, so that the EU can personally see that these meetings are indeed being conducted, thus Serbia has given full legitimacy to a criminal such as Hashim Thaci. I am going back to that question – why does the Republic of Serbia not know what it will do and what it will do about this report and why there is no clear picture of who will investigate the allegations in this report? It is as if we have left the EU decision again because the EU has long decided for us. I remind you of the resolution they wrote to us, so we handed it over to the UN and then it was unanimously adopted. So, I don't want to believe that we're going to listen to the European Union again, who thinks that this investigation should be conducted by Eulex, when everyone else, and among other things Dick Marty, is talking about that Eulex simply can't conduct this kind of investigation, that this investigation won't be impartial and that Eulex simply doesn't have the capacity to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51959	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51960	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister has not honored and respected us. One of the points of the united agenda that we are discussing today is the draft law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers on police co-operation. The agreement, signed on 24 September 2010, remains in the shadow of news that Serbia returned two US-made police helicopters, type "white 206L" and "white 206B" to Bosnia and Herzegovina on that day. As far as the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement is concerned, it is unclear what you have been waiting for so far, i.e. why did you not put this bill in the assembly procedure at the regular autumn of 2010? Did it take you six months to write two members of this bill? Is the government of the Republic of Serbia responsible for this failure, or is it the Ministry of the Interior, or is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia responsible? The government's slowness, i.e. the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, conflicts with the principles of skipping steps or quick walking forward on moving steps declared by some of the ruling majority's MPs. I think it's a mirror of this government -- big promises, big words, and no realisation. I wouldn't be surprised if a law on optimism were to enter the assembly procedure – a difficult life for Serbian citizens, a homeless woman, but optimism is mandatory. Hundreds of people in Serbia run out of work daily, but must not run out of optimism. Companies fail, debt is high, but it doesn't matter, Serbian citizens have to show optimism. I think North Korea will envy us for that amount of optimism that spreads the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on police co-operation has only two members: the first, which says that the Agreement was signed on 24 September 2010 and in which language it was signed, and the second member, in which the text of the Agreement was given. What can we discuss now? The agreement signed six months ago and already in force? Of course not, and it's an illusory job. If we had discussed the Agreement before the signing, when we might have been able to influence the quality of the Agreement, then it would certainly have made sense. The police co-operation agreement is one of the five agreements signed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the interior ministry during 2010. In addition to the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, in fact, Bosnia and Herzegovina, such agreements have been signed with the governments of Bulgaria, Albania, Azerbaijan and the Czech Republic. The Serbian Progressive Party welcomes and supports any fight against crime and any steps that would make the fight more effective. If we look at the results of the Ministry of Interior in 2010, we see a more intense presence of criminal activity at our national border. 4.320 people who crossed the border in an unauthorized way have been discovered, or tried to cross the state line, which is 130% higher than in 2009. At that time, the number of persons was 2,029, so last year's impact represented the largest number of illegal migrants detected in the past decade. At the national border in 2010 more than 186 kilograms of intoxicated drugs were seized or 66% higher than in 2009. Also, nearly 90,000 boxing of smuggled cigarettes was seized last year. This may be the most visible segment of crime that's taking place on our national border. What are these dreary numbers telling us? They show us that criminal activity at the state border is more intense, because if 4.320 people, i.e. migrants and 186 kilos of intoxicating drugs, how much do you think remains undetected? It is no secret, but a proven claim that in a period of crisis, and Serbia, as well as a good part of the world, is in crisis, the crime rate is increasing. The problem with Serbia is that the rest of the world is slowly coming out of the crisis, and we can't lift our heads. This is one of the reasons why our government has to have such agreements with all the countries in the environment, because while you were sitting there remembering to sign this agreement, you lost another six months for two members of the law, a lot of things illegal happened, and could have been prevented by joint activities of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Those dealing with crime do not recognise the state borders and national differences and, unfortunately, do not waste time, as this government of the Republic of Serbia is losing. The arrest of Elise's group and co-operation in the field of war crimes detection are thin results for our two countries. However, I cannot help but point out the role of members of the interior ministry, ordinary people, police officers, inspectors, in increasing the number of criminal offences detected. These people are doing a very responsible job in torn uniforms and shoes that haven't been replaced in years. They spent the whole winter on the street, on the ground, without winter jackets, while you, on the other hand, obtained 90 expensive sports engines for the purposes of the Interior Ministry. The Government Regulation on special purpose funds, published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 82/2008, individual state bodies, including the MUP, exempt the application of the Public Procurement Act. I can understand that if it's specific equipment and weapons, but getting shoes and jackets to the cops in a way that you're going to bypass the Public Procurement Act, I can't understand it anymore. Although what's the situation now, put on and train the cops, respecting any law or regulation, so that they can get in a decent way into all the challenges this responsible job carries. The salaries of members of the MUP are completely devastated, the lowest in the environment and in the worse condition is their only official clothing. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have carefully read this agreement. The Agreement states that strengthening cooperation in the field: removing public security and public policy threats, preventing and lighting criminal offences, the state of security in the protection of the state border, witness protection and data and sending liaison officers. All this is good, but what is the lack of this agreement (unfortunately, we cannot change it) is the lack of a clause that would define co-operation from the field of detection and confiscation of property acquired by crime. This agreement doesn't recognize it, or I couldn't see it. The law on confiscation of property acquired by crime has been in force since early March 2009, and the Agency for the Security of Forced Disposal of Assets and Management of Disposal of Assets has been established. All these activities have shown some results. However, Article 13 of that law clearly states: "The director of the Agency is obliged to report twice a year on the work of the Agency to the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. “ The end of the quote. The law has been in force for two years, and no report on the agency's work has reached us MPs, namely the public or the citizens of Serbia. Why? Who is responsible for this unhappiness, who is responsible for the management of the property that is presumed or proved to have been acquired by crime? Once again, I underline that the SNS advocates all forms of fighting crime and corruption, which is one of our basic principles, but we also advocate respect for the law, whether we like them or not. How are you gonna convince us that you're ready and able to fight crime when first you and your agencies don't respect the laws, and those laws you've passed? This is another evidence of non-transparent work by government agencies. They are created to spend budgets, to spend the resources of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are less and less and to employ your verified party personnel in those agencies. Regardless of all reconstructions, such a way of working, that is, not working, will continue and therefore Serbia and the SNS are looking for extraordinary parliamentary elections. In the voting day, of course, the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, will vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51961	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51962	Thank you. Many countries outside Europe, but also some EU countries absolutely do not respect obligations under international rules, as well as obligations on extradition. Many countries don't even respect the Security Council resolutions. They're justifying that it's contrary to their national interests. The first example was Israel, which did not respect Resolution 242 which ordered automatic withdrawal from occupied Palestinian territories or, for example, Turkey, which did not respect the Security Council's resolution on the withdrawal of its troops from the occupied territories of Cyprus. So much for the obligation of international regulations and respect for them. As far as Serbia is concerned, the international community has nothing to worry about. This government respects everything. This authority also extradites those sought by the international community, as well as those not sought by the international community and the EU. It is only enough that there is a moment from the United States or from the EU and you react immediately. What would the people say, with their eye, you leap. As regards the extradition related to this European Convention on Extradition, one extradition that was current in these premises should be reminded. If you remember, immediately after that famous October 5th comes to the first, the strictest ultimatum of the United States – to perform the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic. The deadline for the arrest, to remind you, was April 1st, and the failure to comply with this obligation was conditioned by new sanctions. The arrest followed and then a criminal case against Slobodan Milosevic allegedly took over 200 million German marks and about 1.8 billion dinars. By the way, I'd like to ask what's going on with this criminal procedure, since then the district attorney absolutely didn't go public on this case, and it's not said at what stage is this procedure today? Then there was an extradition, which opened one of Pandora's boxes, with two bulkheads: in one they were blackmailed to do extraditions, and in another unsuspecting subjection and racing who would bring more Serbian heads to that hive called The Hague tribunal. After this, let me remind you, then Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government Miroljub Labus said a famous sentence – gentlemen, we have done ours, it is your turn now. I hope you remember this famous sentence. Because of this extradition, and all the other extraditions that took place afterwards, you should know the following. The quasi court was established by Resolution 827, which also adopted the statute of the court. The UN Security Council resolution drastically violated the Charter by overstepping its powers, as the establishment of international courts is only possible as it was done with the Permanent International Court of Rome, therefore, under the auspices of the UN. So much for that. The extradition is, according to the legal science, the handover of the perpetrator of a criminal act of one state to another to be tried in that State or to be held in that other country if the trial has already been held. Some instead of the word "extradition", which is absolutely incorrect, use the word "transfer", which is wrong, although it is done more in the West. Transfer means transfer, so moving or moving someone or something else. However, all these extraditions that are a condition for Serbia should be known to be conditional: 1st financial support, 2nd lending, 3rd mutual co-operation and 4th famous entry into the European Union. The current government, in terms of the extradition of our citizens, should answer some of the crucial questions. First, is the defence of the country against aggression an external crime or is it the obligation of its inhabitants? Furthermore, is the same archaic applied to Serbia, on the one hand, and to other countries, the United States, especially the EU, on the other hand? Furthermore, the next question that is very important in the segment of this area is how will today's descendants of once-famous ancestors be called when they become ancestors too soon? You know, sometimes the ancestors of the people back then called the traitors of the Serb race, and what kind of label they're going to get, that's what's left to see history. Furthermore, has this present-day state fully assumed any elements and any laws of the Wild West? Has the Wild West fluid, called bounty hunters, fully reincarnated in today's Serbia? This is one of the very important issues that should be discussed. Is the current bounty hunters ashamed of what they're doing? Are they ashamed of the way they do it? If they're not ashamed, then why all those masks, those disguises, those hoods, etc., what are their names? You know, sometimes, during those bounty hunters or bounty hunters in the Wild West, they didn't wear those hoods; with them hoods they carry, as far as I know, members of the Q-Klan racist organization. So, what's all this for? What are these doers doing with our citizens today, with the citizens of Serbia, ashamed of themselves? I would like to ask a question that I think also interests the citizens of Serbia – who took five million from the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic? When will the citizens of Serbia know about this? Also for Radovan Karadzic? When will all the dirty work that the Serbian people and Serbia are pushing be completed? What else does Serbia need to be humiliated to stop this humiliation? I will remind you of the words of one Nuremberg prosecutor, the late Walter Rokler, who asked his country, the United States, what is still required of that Serbia as a thank you for suffering American aggression in 1999. That was Mr. Rockler's question. It's about an American citizen who died as an American citizen, but a man who probably held to his honor, to his moral and human integrity. And where is that for you? If you are already fulfilling what the West is asking you, why not ask one question that will be contained in only one word – how long? Do you have the strength to do that? Does anyone know how to tell this Serbian people where the limits of Serbian humiliation are? That's what the citizens of Serbia expect of you. But keep your mouth shut. But that's why you've totally managed to humiliate the Serbian people, to calmly allow the labels of the genocide people to be uploaded to the Serb people; then, to extradite everyone the West is looking for, and even those they're not looking for; to apply the inappropriate actions that the Serbian Constitution forbids when finding the suspects. How much more will you humiliate the Serbian people with this? This country really doesn't need makeup and posers anymore, they don't need demagogues anymore. This country needs a statesman, and when Dr Vojislav Seselj returns soon from The Hague you will see what the statesman is, you will see that responsible national policy is being led, as is the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51963	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Nikola Savic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, in a united debate, we are discussing a number of international agreements and co-operation agreements in different areas between the Republic of Serbia and different countries, including countries from the former Yugoslavia. As many of my colleagues have discussed these topics, I will limit my discussion to two agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. One of these two agreements concerns the border traffic regime between the two countries, and the other agreement concerns the surrender and acceptance of a person whose entry or stay is illegal. As we can conclude, these two topics are compatible and interlinked, because of the quality of the border traffic regime depends on how well there will be illegal entry and illegal stay, from one side to the other and vice versa. When we look at this first agreement, its main intention is to make it easier for the population in the border area, both on the one hand and on the other, to cross the common border to regulate the daily needs of life, which, of course, stand. One way to achieve this is to open new border crossings, and that is what is said in this agreement. However, we must be aware of one fact, which is that part of the state border between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia is being waste in the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija, which is unfortunately under the occupation of foreign troops. That is why Serbia is unable to exercise the powers that are foreseen and which are set out in this agreement in one part of its territory. At the border towards Macedonia, not counting the line of action with Kosovo and Metohija, there are currently only two border crossings, these are Prohor Pcinski and Presevo border crossings, and this is very little, especially if we have in mind that a very frequent traffic corridor is going across this border towards Greece. That's why, as I said, there's a real need for this border crossing to spread, because you saw that there are really big problems. I must say, though, it's also about opening new border crossings. We had a chance to hear and we know that something was done at the opening of a new border crossing called Ogut, in the Municipality of Trgovište. But this border crossing has not yet been brought to life in the right sense, because the necessary infrastructure (meaning access to traffic and everything else that follows a border crossing) is not finished, so that practically this crossing and cannot be counted in the right sense. Many of us witnessed great crowds at the main crossing towards Macedonia, near Presevo. In particular, these crowds are expressed in tourist caves. If we take into account political opportunities in some North African countries such as Egypt, Tunisia, etc., where many tourists left Serbia, then these crowds will be even bigger in this upcoming zone. But, well, let's get back to this deal. The border traffic regulation agreement itself provides certain definitions of certain concepts, such as: land border, border area, border traffic, border traffic, border traffic, etc. This agreement also mentions various annexes, but the MPs did not have the opportunity to get acquainted with these annexes. I believe that in this way, MPs in the Serbian Parliament have been denied adequate information, based on which their discussion might be more quality and argumentative. We know from experience and practice that there are very often some things in the annexes that do and the essence of the agreements themselves. When I mentioned certain terms, when it comes to the definition of border traffic permits between the two countries, I think the procedure for issuing these permits is too complicated. I can assume it's a European standard, and it's global, but in practice it's really going to cause a lot of problems. The Agreement provides that the list of applicants is to be required for licences to be submitted to other parties. Of course, it's not a dispute, but we have a lot of cases... When it comes to bordering with Macedonia, that is not the case, but in some other border areas it is. If the border area is densely populated on both sides or if there is a large city near the border area, then in practice these permits would be very difficult to come by, as they would have waited a few years before we know what the situation in police stations is several years ago, they are already very crowded for passports, and also because of ID cards. However, that crowd has gone a little crazy, but now we have a new situation, there's a replacement of old driver's licenses and traffic permits, and these crowds are back in police stations. That's how it's gonna get bigger. As regards administrative costs for obtaining border traffic permits, the Agreement says that they will be minimal and that their scope must not exceed the administrative costs foreseen for issuing travel documents. I really want to say and I realize that the cost of issuing travel documents and administrative expenses is not very minimal. At the time of this crisis and poverty, these costs represent one serious expense to our poor population, so before we know that in border areas, residents are even poorer, so it's a very big expense to them. Just to mention this second agreement, about illegal crossing the border and staying. No matter how many border crossings we open, I must say, and to be honest, these border crossings will not prevent illegal stay and illegal crossing. It's a phenomenon that is present not only in our home, but everywhere in the world, but on that basis, something needs to be done. In this agreement, I noticed, and the protocol, that in these transitional and final provisions, it is not necessary to engage additional budgets to implement this agreement. That is how it stands in what you have given to the Messengers of the people. However, I have looked at a little of the Agreement myself, and there in Article 11 of the Protocol, it says that all the costs of surrender, acceptance and transit borne by the state of prayer in accordance with Article 14. The Agreement shall be refunded within 30 days of the delivery of the invoice with a description of the costs. So we see that you have practically deceived the MPs here, yet these costs exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51965	Mr. Milorad Krstin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51966	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, as always, we expected to see someone here from the Ministry of Agriculture, and then the Director of the Veterinary Administration, given that it is a united debate on points 17 - 22, and I will focus my story on the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on veterinary co-operation. That's why I said there should be a director of the Department of Veterinary, but it's not our fault that you made the personal changes. The citizens of Serbia will feel the most. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on veterinary co-operation consists of ten members. I think that such an important agreement should have more members, in the sense that it is something that will bear some weight. After that, the 10th member said: "This agreement is concluded for a period of five years and automatically extends for the next period, unless one of the parties cancels it in writing, diplomatically, at least six months before the current five-year period. “ Since this agreement speaks of the transport of animals and products of animal origin and, at the same time, prevents the introduction of infectious diseases and the health of harmful products of animal origin, I think that, if a period of five years has already been drawn up, such an agreement should again be made after five years, that the situation in the world is changing and also in neighbouring countries. What I have to say is that this bill seeks to facilitate the transport of animals and products of animal origin. But I would stop here and ask the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Department of Veterinary Affairs how much is traffic over interstate borders? What's the volume of traffic on the side or roundabout roads? In the end, how many throats are transferred annually through wooden barges, skeletons and other means across the Drina River, what is discovered only in the event of an incident in that transport? Here I don't condemn these agricultural producers who are dealing with livestock farming as they have to and so they manage, because it's a very bad economic situation, not only in Serbia, but it's a bad price for livestock products, I mean cattle, in particular, so one of the roads is to carry cattle, as I said, through wooden barges and skeletons across the Drina in BiH. Normally transport can be carried out if the veterinary-sanitary conditions are met, but who can guarantee that all shipments have passed that control? What about the shipments that bypassed the regular procedure and came the back way to our country? The problem of this guy exists on the other side of Drina; I don't see that this question being mentioned by this bill, let alone that you've offered a solution to this problem. Next, you're talking about the forms needed for transport, the administration that's being conducted at interstate crossings, but that's only part of one total traffic. As I have already stated, how are you going to regulate the transport of animals, products of animal origin that are transported through roads that are not regular, legal flows? It is good that two units or, as you call them, the contracting parties work closely on detecting and preventing the spread of infectious diseases, but who guarantees that traffic through wooden barges and other vessels always contains non-infectious material? Who guarantees that animals are healthy and who can confirm that these products are safe for human consumption? Because when they come to the ground of our country or neighbouring country, it's already too late for any reaction. The question is, who guarantees border townspeople along the river to consume the right food? Who follows the paths of this food to the interior of the two states? Or do you re-adopt the cosmetic bill, and in fact, from one tree you don't see the forest of problems I've been trying to point out to you? Once again, we are always for co-operation and prosperity, but this proposal lacks many more members to solve the problems I have pointed out to you. In further exposure, I would refer to the problem of the import-export capacity of the Republic of Serbia and what it is that we can offer and what the quantities are, and all in light of the harsh truth that the policy of the current regime towards livestock has brought all the branches of livestock farming to the margins. In the past, the trade in cattle and livestock was at an enviable level. Today it's just a pale shadow, because our cattle and pigmaking is nearing total disappearance. These are topics for the government's thinking and resolutional ministry, which has no strategy to improve these branches of economy. We are witnessing that the stock fund is in constant decline, the quality of the throat is getting worse because the less the owners opt for quality throats, they are already looking to maintain it a little bit at the cost of economic losses. The strategy in neighbouring countries is clearly regulated and respected. The subsidy is strong; control, development plan are evident and significant; livestock holders are instructed. That's why they can offer us quality goods. I ask you, what can we offer them and to what extent? A recent shortage of milk is the first indication that over the past decade, the number of male cows has led to a level that does not satisfy the domestic market's needs, but rather the intervention of the crisis has eased a little. Basically, this is a crisis of strategy and plan for future steps. The domestic market is flooded with milk from various countries in the environment and beyond because domestic production is insufficient for the minimum of its own needs. At the announcement of meat and meat processing shortages, since domestic production cannot respond to the needs, the fire is also put out by gasoline, i.e. to the import of meat from the countries of Latin America, Asia, and who knows where else. We need to solve problems in our own backyard, where there's a big mess, so we'll start from the very moment the production begins. If Mr. Micovic were there, he would probably have had to answer something to my next exposure. First of all, on several occasions I point to unprofessional work and work outside the law. Veterinary institutions cannot express their work because it is not clear who works by law, who works in a gray economy, who can do veterinary work from a rented room, who is sufficient to place a cardboard title “veterinary worker” on the window and who does the work of a veterinarian without any invoice for his work. How is it possible that a registered infirmary doesn't have a single trihineloscopic examination of meat, while virtual veterinarians who operate from the living room are looking at hundreds of meat samples, with prices that form themselves without any invoices? I have brought this problem on several occasions, and I have tried to influence Mr. Micovic, then head of the Veterinary Authority, to solve the problem. Unfortunately, with a small number of cattle throats, because the cattle fund has been destroyed in Serbia, people who have finished veterinary college have lost their jobs and have no vision of their way forward, but are resorting to black labour, leading to the fact that the Veterinary Authority has no control over the veterinary market in Serbia. This is an example where veterinary workers are completely out of the control of institutions, where artificial insemination of cows is carried out with the cheapest seed (which was naturally purchased under the law), and the stock fund is made worse because less quality throats are produced. In the villages, breeding pigs are fertilized with non-licensed growths for artificial insemination of feeders in the individual sector; they were also supplied and distributed by suspicious channels. The livestock industry loses its quality; incests and major economic losses rarely occur, especially in smaller environments. When the government policy comes to the model that veterinary work is done in a registered facility, when there is no repeat case of an ambulance stopping working because on the other side of the street someone took a chart and wrote a "veteer" and did a job without any control of the state and the Ministry of Agriculture, which would have to sanction... As long as veterinary technicians are doing a job designed for a graduate veterinarian and as long as the Veterinary Authority doesn't take these warnings seriously, we have nothing to offer our neighbors. This bill of co-operation is good, but no house is built from the roof, but from the foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51967	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51968	I can also use the replica, but also by the Rules of Procedure, because false claims are made here. Mr. Krstin presented in a very inspired exhibition a real problem that exists... (President: Mr Marinkovic, you must first call on a member. ) Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51969	Secondly, only I can do the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and certainly not Mr. Christin. So let's get this straight. Now you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51970	Thank you. Confirmation of this agreement with BiH is not a problem that exists, which Mr. Krstin was talking about in order to display the veterinary service as incompetent, i.e. The inspection that works in Serbia's territory. What you said here, it's... This agreement introduces order. So, the barges you're talking about and smuggling through the Drina are something that's against the law and it's being treated like a felony and that kind of knowledge is being reported to the police. To come to the market, you can, if people think in such a way that it can only be brought to the market and sold, where these same people, like your thinking, buy such goods without having any evidence of quality; they can expose themselves to dangers. It's just like buying a cell phone at the market, and you can buy it at the store. What's more important and what I wanted to tell you is that the milk crisis that's created has not arisen because the number of cows has fallen too much. Yes, and that's true, but not to that extent, because exporting milk... During the period of milk shortages, we had record exports of milk to the market, namely Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and other countries, for which the people received healthy money, expressed in foreign currency. What is most important is the existence of market law, supply and demand. So, our goal is for each of our producers to export to the EU market agricultural products and for that reason for money.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51971	Thank you. Time's up. Therefore, there is no breach of the provisions of Article 107. You have misused the right of Article 103; I have given you my word after you have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I will take you two minutes from the time of the authorised representative on the basis of the last position of Article 103. Please don't do that in the future. Mr. Krstin, please, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51972	I'm sorry, but I was talking to the Director of the Veterinary Administration, I wasn't talking to a colleague. I didn't know he represented and that his last name was Micovic... I'm really sorry. But if you already want to represent him, and I believe you cannot do so, I would still ask you to read Article 4, please, from this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on Veterinary Cooperation. I made it clear, first we fix the situation in the wind here with us, and then we will have a valid agreement between Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was the essence of my speech, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51973	Thank you. That's what I realized. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51974	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, from session to session, we have a large number of contracts and agreements on the agenda, actually confirming contracts and agreements of international character. Every time, like today, connect incompatiblely, connect grandmothers and frogs, because... As Mrs. President said at the beginning of today's work, this is, like, irrelevant, so we don't need a representative of the government either. In fact, each of these agreements and contracts is of paramount importance, primarily because of the fact that by confirming such agreements and agreements you only legalise the subjective relationship that the Serbian regime has in relation to major forces and legalise humiliation and the state, and state interests and all citizens of Serbia. Why are we saying this? Because we have a series of examples that it actually is. How many agreements have we signed with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, how much have we been praised here from the Ministry of Justice what are we going to achieve by signing these agreements and those agreements, and what are we actually doing? For a reminder, in July 2003 in Hungary, Hashim Thaci was arrested on a Serbian warrant and immediately released, and we have an agreement on the exchange of those from Interpol's arrest warrant, red, yellow, as you already have warrants. In June 2009, Agim Ceku was arrested in Bulgaria on the basis of an APB and released a day later. The same Agim Ceku was arrested in Slovenia in 2003, was arrested in Hungary and released in 2004. The same Agim Ceku met at Skopje's airport with Boris Tadic on December 15th 2006 and, according to Tadic, he spoke as a psychologist to Ceku as a soldier. So more than amazing, but unfortunately, true. In February 2010, Ejup Ganic was arrested in London on charges of a case at the Voluntary Street in Sarajevo. The London extradition court refused to deliver it to Serbia. In January 2011, Tomislav Purda, a former ZNG member, was arrested on the basis of an arrest warrant from Serbia; the Serbian prosecutor's office gave up the process. Otherwise, he was arrested for crimes against prisoners of war. In March 2011, Jovan Divjak was arrested in Vienna on a warrant for the arrest sought by Serbia, which accuses him of being responsible for the attack on JNA column in Dobrovoljacka Street in Sarajevo on May 2nd and 3rd 1992, when 42 people were killed, wounded 73 and captured 215 members of JNA. Of course, the court in Korburg decided to release Divjak from extradition detention in Austria, with a 500,000-euro bail payment. Ilija Jurisic was arrested, or sentenced to 12 years for participation in the massacre of JNA soldiers in Tuzla, so-called. Tuzlane column, 1992. At least 51 soldiers were killed and at least 50 soldiers were wounded. Silajdzic asks Boris Tadic for Ilija Jurisic to be released, as he said, to be released by the Serbian Supreme Court. The appeals court has made concessions to Tadic and Silajdzic and Ilija Jurisic, a war criminal, has been released. Boris Tadic was very important to please Haris Silajdzic, because, remember, the media informed us, Silajdzic said that if he did not let him go to Iliju Jurisic Silajdzic would not visit Serbia. Imagine what a tragedy that would be. Well, it's amazing! When it comes to Tomislav Purda, these days it's actual, it's defended by fighters, so-called. Human rights fighters, they say, have the right to defend himself from freedom. These human rights fighters, of course, so-called, have not remembered for, behold, nine years to raise their voice and say that Vojislav Seselj has the right to defend himself from freedom. What is the effect of the various agreements we signed with Croatia? In addition to these dramatic examples I mentioned, the effect is that Croatia gave Serbia a list of 1.534 Serbs who are said to have been prosecuted for war crimes in Croatia. Imagine what Serbia gave Croatia – a list of 40 Croats (of which is actually only one citizen of Croatia, but there is no, for example, Purde) on that list responsible for some war crimes. Where's the proportion? Where is the same attitude of the Serbian state towards its citizens, according to its victims, towards everything that has happened in previous wars? So, from step to step, from agreement to agreement, you humiliate the citizens of Serbia; you place Serbian citizens in a subjugated position, even more than is required of you. Who are the representatives of Serbia talking to, who is Mrs Malovic speaking with in Croatia? With a representative of the DORH, it is the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. Who is this state's attorney? Mladen Bajic. And who is Mladen Bajic? A man who was a state's attorney, they say, and in 1992, who collected data on crimes committed against Serbs, in fact on the abuse of war prisoners in the Sibenik Kulinas. He's been hiding that data, hiding it today. He is someone there to negotiate with, he is someone who will prosecute Croatian citizens who have committed war crimes. No, he and Jadranka Kosor are receiving Purda along with all state honors. And what does the state of Serbia do with regard to the citizens of Serbia who it occurred to someone to say they committed a war crime without evidence? For everyone against the finger in Serbia, everyone jumps, the competent state authorities, and they say, yes, he should be arrested. When a lot of evidence is shown on someone who is not a citizen of Serbia, who is a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina or Croatia, they say -- he has the right to defend himself from freedom. Well, does anyone in this country ever at least care about the interests of the Serbian state? Is it possible that you have subordinated so much to your own interests and have trampled the dignity of Serbian citizens at every turn? Purda has the right to defend himself from freedom, Jurisic is released, Divjak has the right to defend himself from freedom, with Ceku meeting at Boris Tadic airport. All of them, therefore, have the right to defend themselves from freedom, and a free citizen of the Serbian state stands at the centre of Belgrade on the birthday of General Mladic, holding a picture of General Mladic (by the way, unfortunately, the citizens approach to photograph with her, enthusiastically), but the police are coming and bringing this man in. Is that state policy, dear fellow MPs? Unfortunately, it is. What else are we discussing today under these agreements that you have offered us? Of course, the only agreement that has earned attention, which we should have really discussed here, is the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Great Socialist People's Arab Arab Jamaica, which envisioned the visa waiver for holders of diplomatic, official and special passports. You took this off the agenda. You, Mrs. Djukić Dejanović, on March 1st, I think you put this on the agenda, we got it written as a draft agenda. It would be nice, when you also informed us in writing on March 3rd that it is being removed from the agenda, that you have informed us on whose order you are doing so, on whose orders the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. I know that you will now say – formally, the government is a promoter, you only by government order. You know what I'm asking now and we ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia - on whose orders do we now have to spoil relations with Libya? What did Libya object to Serbia so that we wouldn't discuss such an agreement? What is it that Libya, which has always proven itself to be a friendly state... Who are we courting? We court the Americans because the Libyan people do not allow themselves to be occupied, they do not allow America to exploit Libyan wealth. We're running now... You run, God forbid, you run to the Americans and get off the agenda with Libya. This is a disgrace and a shame! These are incredible humiliations! As you yourself estimate, the United Nations' decision is the opposite, as some state calls it. Where did you read that the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is called Macedonia? Why are you pushing your finger around the United Nations? You often tell us – don't stick your finger around the Americans and the European Union, because they are, my God, the forces. And you stick your finger in the eye where someone orders you to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, what about... It's also about one of these agreements; unfortunately, I don't tell them names, because that's what I'd be wasting my time on. What about the state authorities, who kept quiet about Dick Marty's report? We insisted and asked that the competent authorities ask that the investigation into the sale of the authorities in Kosovo and Metohija be conducted by involving the competent authorities of Serbia, the authorities of Albania, that this is, of course, done in the territory of Serbia, under the auspices of the United Nations, with a very simple and clear explanation – in the territory of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, living Serbs were taken out, these bodies were sold in Albania, all of which happened under the auspices, as you like to say, international communities. It will now occur to someone that the investigation is being conducted by EULEX, which, by the way, is, past Resolution 1244, installed in Kosovo and Metohija. But, of course, you don't care about that. As not interested in state authorities, why someone does not answer and ask who is responsible in The Hague tribunal, which in 2003 knew about the trade in Serbian victims' organs, and who is responsible for destroying 400 DNA samples of victims from Kosovo and Metohija. There's a lot of things you know, but there's a lot you're pushing under the carpet, ladies and gentlemen. You are doing everything in your own interests, and you are doing everything contrary to the interests of the Serbian citizens. So, of course, Serbian citizens can't wait for you to leave, they can't wait for Vojislav Seselj to return, to finally have someone open their eyes to this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51975	National MP Dusan Maric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51976	Ladies and gentlemen, terrorism today has been identified as the greatest threat to world peace and as the field of greatest co-operation between the states and their police. Even often you can hear NATO officials claim that fighting terrorism is the primary task of NATO's pact, the purpose of its existence. However, in the agreement on police co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, which I hold in my hand, the term "terrorism" is mentioned, both in letter and in number, for the one time, in Article 2. In reports by the Western countries intelligence services, reports by the United States government, reports by the intelligence services of the former Yugoslav republics, in analyses of experts from the former Yugoslavia and international experts on terrorism, reports by Bosnia and Herzegovina's state authorities for the past 15 years have identified Bosnia and Herzegovina as a potential hub for the spread of terrorism, as the country in which the largest terrorists had asylum, received its passports and its citizenship, as the most common link through which terrorists from the Arab world reach the west and as the recruiting centre of Al-Qaeda. However, there is no word in the agreement between BiH and Serbia on police co-operation between the two countries on terrorism. It's like there's no danger of terrorism in this space. This is more difficult to understand if the following is in mind – that terrorism is also on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija practically a daily phenomenon and that last year we had a trial of a group of Islamic terrorists from the Raska area. I will now list some data that make it clear that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a time bomb, which can blow peace in the Balkans, but also beyond. After the end of the war in BiH, several thousand members of the former El Mujahidin squad, a unit of Arab mercenaries who committed terrible crimes against Serbs in Podrinj, Serbs in Ozren and Serbs and Croats in central Bosnia, remained. I will remind only, in July 1995 and September of that year in the Ozren area, they literally cut with sabers and a motor saw several hundred captured Serb soldiers and civilians. According to official data released by police in Sarajevo, at least 1300 mujahedin received a passport from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the country's citizenship. The German daily Frankfurter Rundshau announced that after the war in BiH there were at least 4,000 mujahedin left, and there is not a single word in the agreement on police co-operation between Serbia and BiH on the issue. An expert on the issue of Islamic terrorism, Dzevad Galijasevic, a Muslim from Moshevac near Maglaj, argues that most of the mujahedins who remained in BiH are one way or another involved in the structures of al-Qaeda. He also argues, based on his ties with police in Sarajevo, that they enjoy the full protection of the Muslim intelligence service of AIDS and the extreme work of Muslim political leadership in Sarajevo led by Haris Silajdzic. It's the so-called. Sleepers, terrorists who are in no way exposed, undergo training organised by Al-Qaeda, and then wait to get a warrant for certain terrorist actions. I recall the fact that the biggest living terrorist, as they call it, Osama bin Laden in 1993 received a passport from Bosnia and Herzegovina in Vienna from Muhammad Cengic, one of Ali Izetbegovic's closest associates. The passport was given in gratitude for sending mercenaries, money and weapons to cause war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for committing crimes against the Serb people. Bosnia and Herzegovina's passport also owns Abu Zukar al-Madoni, a convicted and well-known terrorist, otherwise a close relative of Osama bin Laden. The same year Osama bin Laden got a passport from Muhammad Cengic's hand in Vienna, he also received Mezz Audoni from Tunisia, who was later arrested in Turkey on an arrest warrant issued by Italy for involvement in international terrorism. A group of Islamic terrorists who carried out a series of bombings on a train station in Madrid on 11 March 2004, killing 190 at the time, and injured more than 1500 people, BiH citizen Sanel Sikirica, born in Mostar. I would like to remind you that at the time, Republika Srpska Police Director Dragomir Adnan said as police director that part of that group of training was done not far from Zenica, and that the explosives that created the massacre in Madrid were obtained in BiH from a reserve of so-called "Zenica". The BiH Army. I also remind you of the fact that Muhammad Atta, one of the hijackers of two aircraft that carried out a terrorist attack on the World Trade Center in New York on September 11th, ended up in BiH as part of a network of mujahedins in this neighbouring country. I also remind you of the arrest of a six-member Algerian group in Sarajevo when six BiH citizens were originally from Arab countries arrested for preparing an attack on the US Embassy in Sarajevo. What's interesting is that all six people were in the executive posts of international humanitarian organisations operating in BiH. The next universal thing is that Abu Zabajdah is the head of all the Al-Qaeda international operations and is recruiting in the camps of this terrorist organization. It has been proven that this terrorist was the main link between Osama bin Laden and the terrorists who carried out the attack on September 11th, and that is said in several reports by the US government. A US government report said that Al-Qaida just through Zabajdah established a system for the spread and financing of the terrorist network in BiH through humanitarian organisations, after which it applied the Bosnian principle in all Arab world countries and in all countries where Al-Qaeda exists. Most of the mujahedins in BiH are gathered around the Zenica-based Active Islamic Youth. The organisation was founded in 1995. According to the State Department, the Active Islamic Youth is among the organisations associated with international terrorism. Otherwise, the main word in these organisations is led by former commanders and commissioners, ideological leaders of mujahedin in BiH, Abu Hamza and Imad al Misri. Abu Hamza is known to the general public as the founder of the Mujahedin colony in the village of Bocinj near Maglaj, from which all the Serb population had been expelled and killed before, and Imad al-Misri was founded immediately upon his arrival in BiH by means he received from Saudi Arabia, Iran and Pakistan 19 medres in BiH for the ideological preparation of Bosnian youth for entry into the ranks of mujahedin. According to official data from the BiH police, over 2,000 Bosnian young people have been trained. All of them are now in BiH and belong to the active Islamic youth or the extreme Wahhabi movement. Otherwise, the operation of this organization was also the subject of analysis in a report by the German intelligence service. It argues: "The active Islamic youth is constantly recruiting young Islamic holy warriors, who, after initial preparation in the centres of BiH, are being trained in one of the al-Qaeda training centres in Pakistan." A member of this organisation was also terrorist Muhamed Topalovic. If you remember, he killed a three-member Croatian family in central Bosnia several years ago. The public in Serbia is slightly familiar with the fact that the mujahedin family from Bosnia and Herzegovina participated in a war in Chechnya as members of the terrorist movement in Chechnya, that several of them died in the struggles with Russian security forces. Otherwise, their departure to Chechnya was organized by Active Islamic Youth. I remind you of the fact that this organisation has organised more demonstrations of support for Chechen terrorists in Sarajevo over the past few years. I remind you of the latest information that is very important for this topic, which is the fact that the active Islamic youth has been in direct contact with New Market terrorists who have been sentenced to years of imprisonment and have had frequent contacts with the aforementioned Mujahedin Commander Abu Hamza. Because of all this, it really seems illogical that at a time when police of all countries, intelligence services of all countries focus on the problem of terrorism in BiH as one of the most important security problems in the region and Europe, Serbia adopts an agreement with BiH on police co-operation in which the concept of terrorism, there is not a single word in BiH.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51977	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. There are 14 minutes left for your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51978	I would ask you to remember well to tell the representative of this reconstructed government, it seems that for nothing it was a reconstruction, there is a problem here as a disease in continuity for the government's representatives. Probably this new government with detestation looks at what the previous government has proposed. But today we have a united debate, eight points of the agenda again. Only two moments are important for all these agenda points – it is fulfilling orders to establish good neighbourly relations in the territory of the Western Balkans; and you have put in the same basket of people and cattle. Extradition refers to people, and this veterinary cooperation on cattle, so let's combine the debate, because that's how this government treats these two very big problems. Of course, the poorly reconstructed government, Dacic for a living, was not allowed in here. If Cedomir Jovanovic had said there had to be a minister here today, we wouldn't have a session until the minister arrives, so she could be a pregnant Malovicka, and she could be there right after childbirth, but she would have to come. But when you two talk, that can't happen, nothing can stop Serbia on this pro-European and pro-NATO road. When we talk about human co-operation, there are more of these conventions, laws, etc., international standards are being promoted and they only apply to how long the session takes. It doesn't apply after the session. The proof that it is not valid, Mrs. Radeta has read a little chronological record since your friends who brought you here to power, who treat you as partners, respected you, saw for themselves – whoever you accused, your accusation was a kind of amnesty, it had to be released. They're all freed. That's the theory - impose fear, maintain fear. They can do anything from Brussels and Washington, and you as their representatives have to do it all here, they didn't want to, it doesn't matter. Now, let me inform you, those of you who want to vote: the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is the name of the UN and, you understand, the Dayton Agreement does not know about the police service at BiH level. The police department belongs to the entities. They are biting where they don't belong by these Republika Srpska Serbs because some pro-European politicians signed, recognised, both in terms of customs, both in terms of the police, both in terms of the military and in terms of the BiH court, something that does not exist in the Dayton Agreement. Marinkovic was right when he spoke earlier, smuggling with Lijanovici from Herzegovina should be handled by police, not by veterinary service. Let's not go after things. Don't go after things. Tomorrow, our government will go to Banja Luka, have a joint session with the government of Republika Srpska. Why are you not going through special parallel relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, so whatever you mean by that term, through Republika Srpska, giving full support to the preservation of the Republika Srpska entity? You can't. And today a delegation has left you in Brussels, they say – if we can close the deal with Montgomery, we can go with Solana, he's retired too. They went to sue you, to say that they would take us to Europe faster and better, and that it would be cheaper for the EU. They'll be delivering Mladic immediately, not sneezing like you're sneezing here. Do you understand where you've brought the state, that citizens should look at "Marakani" as pro-European parties race first, which will reach the goal of doing as much damage as possible to the Republic of Serbia and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as possible. We need to be cultural, nice, cuddly and respect you. How can we respect such a policy? Such a policy deserves a conviction. Libya first sent a million-dollar check to the new government on October 5th or 6th or November 2000. No one could have taken the check in their hands. She waited a year and a half to collect. None of you should have taken it. Since 2004, when Western policy changed towards Libya, you've all rushed to Libya to take pictures. One minister imports students to his private university here. Liliæ prefers Libya rather than Dedina, mediate around nurses. The Secretary of Defense, the President of the Republic, are racing - to sell weapons, sell weapons, money, we'll make money. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You'll have the highest sanction. They were one of the few who supported this people and today support it, related to what you say is "a red line below which is not going", which is Kosovo and Metohija. Who's allowed to be friends with you? You're capable of tricking everyone, belittle them. You want to permanently destroy our traditional friends from all over the world. You want to show something. What do you want to show? You're qualified to ratify a convention. Who is this expert who tells us that this convention is good? The Council of Europe is preparing some international document, some new standard, that the accused and the defences and do not know who will be the witness. They don't have to know the name or the name of the witness, or his identity, or be able to listen to that witness; it's enough that the prosecution and the police have his statement and done the job. One of you will say again, although it is contrary to the basic principles, well, if we want to talk, and to the development of science from Galilee to this day. Otherwise, the fundamental opposite. You'd raise your arms and legs. Europe's looking for it, we'll get a loan, we'll be in debt. We'll be at an ideal opportunity in 675 years to return if anyone survives. It's your policy. At every step you humiliate this people, you destroy dignity, economic and every other future you destroy thoroughly. That's why we're criticizing you, that citizens understand which way you lead this people. You've only been boasting about the new government for two days. Where's your minister? Where's your first vice president, deputy president, minister of police? Went there, like. There was no sitting there, there was no sitting, there was no quorum, neither was he in the O.R. He chatted with the press. (President: Mr Krasic, Minister of the Interior is on an extremely important state task... How do I know he's on a mission? There's nothing more important today than being here to defend the law. (President: Don't shout.) I'm not yelling, but you're not hearing it. (President: Don't shout and don't call the Minister of the Interior. The government has to sit here. When Jovanovic asks for it, you all get scared and bring it in here. (President: I'm not making a difference depending on who's looking, but depending on who's the subject. So where's the minister? (President: Do not shout, lest I use other instruments, not requests, but sanctions. So where's the minister? There's no minister. Did my voice change the state of the O.R.? And when I pick up and when I hang up, he's gone. Where's the Prime Minister? Where are you who guarantee that you have done a good reconstruction of the government, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic? As soon as we mention "evening News" comes a hickey against us, and we're just asking a question – what about privatising "Evening News"? Now the News is going to write about this. How much more with these media manipulations? There are no representatives of the reconstructed government. Why? This is where you swore responsibility to the citizens. Two days we've been listening to the president say -- you, the new government, don't think about the parties, but about the citizens, so where are they? So where are your reconstructed ministers? Where's your reconstructed government? Who can believe, who can trust you, to you who are in power? Your oath, how long does it take? It's as good as the journal. You're as sure as pre-election promises, right? They're easy to give, but they don't respect each other. The people will put up with it. And your popularity is jumping, you know. Your popularity is very high, especially in October, and perhaps in November, if not in November, then perhaps in December, if not this year then 2016, the year someone will say – the European Union said Serbia will not be an EU member. And you can't raise your voice because someone's nine years innocent in custody. That's why you and Cirko went to Brussels to sue you, to say that he can do the same as you, only a little faster and cheaper, to destroy Serbia than you, and we have to watch that dead race. Why the dead race and this humiliation? Who can trust this authority? Who can trust the parties who advocate the NATO Pact and the EU? Who can believe it? No one has the moral right to trust you anymore. Everyone must have some responsibility to their home, to their children. Because of that responsibility, he can't trust you. Not two days since the reconstruction, turkey dots don't apply. That's your promises. You've made eight laws. The international convention, it's from God, it can't move. Are there any reserves? Does each international convention allow the state to make reserves, both in terms of territory and in respect of certain provisions? No, you're not interested in that. Why? There's a list of what needs to be done. Did you see Djelic last night? He objects that there are no financial terms of credit in the debt contract. It's not written. He talks about the second law and the political conditions Serbia needs to meet. He says we have to go under EU surveillance. There's the answer that's given. But, you cover it, you have "Evening News", Media Public Service, push. Cover it, now you'll have 16 of these live programs with those lunatics, just make it interesting for people. Too bad your Champions League is ending, so it's better if it's a situation when you play 40 games a day. Bury it. Everything's gonna get better. It will. When? When the Germans or the Turks come, because you call both the Germans and the Turks. Smile, ma'am. You yourself write a book about yourself, and you and your authority. The book about you is in your stenograms, it's in your works. Here, I'd like to buy you these 30 seconds, so you can get into that European Union as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51979	The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. You've got 13 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam President, we have pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure because today the representative of the Ministry is not here, but we did not insist on this injury for the simple reason why and when the representative of the Justice Department is present as if he were not present. We have never been in a position to conduct a dialogue with him, we have never heard his answers or his opinions on the amendments submitted, or that our criticism may possibly be answered, so it doesn't matter to us whether he is present or not today, and therefore we agreed to go to this debate without a representative of the Justice Ministry. Of all the points that are on the agenda today, I would like to remain on this one relating to the Third Protocol with the European Convention on Extradition. If the aim of this Convention is to speed up the extradition process, or to reduce it, then it is something that is good, something that needs to be supported, but the question is whether the extradition procedure will be shortened if the condition in Article 4 of this Convention is made, and Article 4 states that the consent of the requested person for extradition is necessary. Then the question arises justifiably how many persons whose extradition is required will be able to give such consent? Imagine just one Serb asking to be tried in Zagreb, or imagine a Croat insisting on being tried in Belgrade! At least in our circumstances, where the memories of the unfortunate nineties are extremely present, where the negative passions and rebuke of one nation towards another everyday phenomenon, I believe that we will not be in a position to listen to the great number of facial consents requested. Just imagine how quickly an extradition of Ganic or Purda's extradition would have been done if they had given consent to be tried in Serbia. Not only is it amazing to expect that they will give consent to extradition, but it is amazing to assume that Serbia will be able to give up prosecution towards it. I believe that what Serbia agrees to today does not agree with any single country in the world. The question is, how well are we as a state aware that we have a certain dignity and self-esteem? When you agree several times, in less than a year, to various humiliations, then you create a very bad impression of your country, then any further accusation that comes to the agenda will be seen as unargumented, as inconclusive and on the evidence unfounded. Here by who knows what time the dignity and international credibility of the state itself rocked. Now let's go back a little bit. Let's see what I'm talking about. On July 1st, 2003, Hashim Thaci was arrested in Hungary, and was released immediately afterwards. On 11 May 2007, Ilija Jurisic was arrested in Belgrade for the case of a Tuzla column. He was sentenced to 12 years in prison, so that the Court of Appeal would, for absolutely incredible reasons, lift the verdict and let him wait for a first degree trial at large. It should be said that Ilija Jurisic has no formal obligation to report to the Serbian court after such a verdict and that we will probably not be able to see him again before the Serbian court. Similarly happened with the release of former BiH wartime presidency member Ejup Ganic, whom the Serbian prosecutor's office accused of assaulting a JNA column in Dobrovoljacka Street in Sarajevo in 1992, when he died, if I am not mistaken, 50 soldiers and 73 were wounded. The court in London freed him, and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office gave up the appeal, you can imagine for what reasons – because it would cost very much Serbian taxpayers! Furthermore, on June 24th 2009, Agim Ceku was arrested in Bulgaria, so that only one day after the arrest would be released. Of course, we arrive at the 5th of January 2011 when Tomislav Purda, a former member of Zengi, was arrested on the basis of a Serbian warrant, so that the Serbian prosecutor's office would simply give up his prosecution. After so much abandonment, we as a people are put into a situation to blush over what the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor is doing, because it either gives up prosecution or apologizes for the charges filed. Is that how any legal state in the world behaves that holds to its dignity? Where is the end of self - humiliation? Where is the end of those barren statements, which have demoted us so much when it comes to supposed reconciliation in the region? If we really care about this reconciliation in the region, why does Serbia now not insist on examining all charges against Serbs in Croatia and BiH, when we have already agreed to such great humiliations? I remind you that hundreds of Serbs are still in prisons throughout Croatia and throughout BiH only on the basis of extorted recognitions they made in infamous camps, such as Laura or Kerestinc. Is the state interested in the case of Ivica Vuletic, a Serbian citizen, who was sentenced three times to twenty years in prison for the alleged crime in Vukovar, where, by the way, he was never? In court he denied guilt, but the court gave faith to his testimony given in the investigation, of course under duress, and he, without committing a crime, served in prison for 15 years! Of course, the state does not care, as it does not care about any crime committed against the Serb people, because, as a rule, such cases are subject to political bargaining and trade. We will not come to reconciliation in the region just because Serbia is constantly apologizing, that Serbia is constantly giving up on criminal prosecutions or that Serbia is constantly dropping out. We can only come to reconciliation in the region if there is at least elemental reciprocity in political and diplomatic relations. If we truly care about reconciliation in the region, then why doesn't the government make peace with its own people first? Does the government have the power to support a petition of 45,000 refugees from Krajina, who seek nothing more than to respect their elemental human rights, property rights, tenant rights and all other human rights? Is it possible that Serbia and Serbian authorities are unable to vote in favour of the human rights of the Serb people? The question arises whether the Serbian government would be in a position to bring such a resolution if signatories, by chance, were other peoples from the region rather than Serbs? This does not defend national and national interests, so unfortunately it does not take care of its own people. After all these abandonments and after all these humiliations, the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and the Serbian government have yet another chance, it is the final test of seriousness, when it comes to the Jovan Divjak case. The question arises whether the state will show on this case that it has elemental dignity and self-esteem or whether this case and this case will be subject to political bargaining and trade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51981	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint single search. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the bill's proposals. I'm setting a 60-minute break. So, at 2:45, we'll continue our work. [[After break – 14.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The Minister is with us. Good afternoon. Here you go. Mr. Zoran Stankovic, Minister of Health. I would like to inform you that on Wednesday, 16 March 2011, RTS will not be able to monitor the meeting of the Serbian Parliament in a direct transfer to the Second Programme, as due to previously agreed obligations to transfer the football game Partizan – Red Star, a regular programme from the First Programme will be transferred to Second. If the Assembly continues its work after that, the delayed session will be broadcast in the evening. We move to a joint Single Search of the 23-27th and 29th Points of the Agenda – Proposal for a DECISION OF THE PRESIDENT, THE PRESIDENT AND MEMBER STATE OF THE GOVERNMENTAL COMMITTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE ELECTRON COMMUNICATION AGENCY, THE PROPOSING OF THE MEMBER OF THE MEMBER STATE AND THE MEMBER STATE OF THE SERVANE, THE PROPOSING OF THE MEMBER OF THE MEMBER AGENCY OF THE REFERENCE OF THE SERVANE, THE PROPOSING OF THE MEMBER STATES AND THE PROPOSEDING OF THE MEMBERITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE REFERRED TO THE INVITATION OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURE. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be allocated to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds, to the SRS Parliamentary Group one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds, to the United Regions Group 28 minutes and 48 seconds, to the Parliamentary Group Forwards Serbia 25 minutes and 12 seconds, to the DSS- Vojislav Kostunica Group 24 minutes, to the SPS-JS 18 minutes, to the LDP Group 15 minutes and 36 seconds, to the Parliament Group of New Serbia 10 minutes and 48 seconds, to the Minority Group eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS Group six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of Members of Parliament, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Milan Dimitrijevic of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica MP Vjerica Radeta, MP Bojan Djuric LDP. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: the motion for a decision to elect a president, deputy president and members of the Management Board of the Republic of E-communications Agency, submitted by the Government, the proposals for candidates for the President and members of the Fiscal Council, submitted by the President of the Republic, the Governor of the NBS and the Minister of Finance, the List of candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of the Republic of Broadcasting Agency from the Order of the Conference of the University of Serbia, which was established by the Committee on Culture and Informing of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Serbian Health Council, which was submitted by the Government and a proposal for amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly of Prof. Dr Slavica Đukić-Djejanović. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the experts of the relevant committees want a word, a transport and communications committee, for culture and for information, for the judiciary and for the administration? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. The word is "Veriza Radeta". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, and now we have in a unique debate all kinds of things, agenda points that no one can connect except this Government of the Republic of Serbia. You see what an awkward situation you're putting the minister who came here to represent, we assume he doesn't know either, and neither do we. You called him the Proposer's representative, we have six promoters at these six points. Did he get the authority for everyone? I don't think so. Of course, it's not the only anomaly of these proposals, but we're going to say something like this from one to the other. We Serbian radicals are in principle, and it is known, we do not personally interfere with the choice of the ruling coalition, but there are in principle certain things that really need to be discussed when it comes to specific proposals. Why did I say we didn't interfere? Because you are responsible for the situation in all these areas, you are even responsible for the state of the country. The situation is catastrophic in every area, including in areas that are within the jurisdiction of these councils, agencies, conferences, what we don't have here. It is completely irrelevant what is first on the agenda, but here you are proposing a decision on the selection of members of the Health Council of Serbia. Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, was then, already Minister of Finance today, submitted this proposal and is proposed by Professor Dr Dragan Savic, a regular professor of the University of Novi Sad Medical Faculty, as a member of the Health Council. What's supposed to be controversial here? What do we know about Mr. Dragan Savic? Does he meet the conditions, what are the conditions, what are his references, what does he recommend? We don't know anything at all. This is what it says about the way you work, I mean the government of the Republic of Serbia and the congregation majority. In our explanation, we have this view: “A member of the Health Council elected is proposed in accordance with the criteria prescribed by law, i.e. Prof. Dragan Savic is a regular professor of the Medical Faculty of the University of Novi Sad... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” This really can't be a characteristic. Perhaps Mr. Savik is the ideal solution for this. He may have achieved and achieved maximum in his profession, but we should have it written and someone should tell us that we could even discuss such a proposal, and you must agree that Serbia's Health Council is not a cat's cough. You know the state of health he's in. What's that former minister, Mr. Stankovic, you probably haven't even seen what he left you yet? Chaos. After all, the media daily introduces us to corrupt doctors, tragedies that are reportedly due to medical mistakes. I'm saying apparently, because we never say what we don't know for sure, but if there's so much writing about it, then there's probably some problems. So, the serious organ is a non-serious proposal. Unserious is the way to propose. What's the suggestion, we don't know, because we don't have anything to form our own opinions on. Next, let's say, a member of the Fiscal Council. Mr. Nikola Altiparmakov, fiscal adviser on Serbia's economic development project, is being proposed. We do have a more detailed explanation here from the finance ministry, but the proposal is proposed by Ms. Diana Dragutinovic. Since Minister, or Prime Minister, Cvetkovic (and the majority of parliament) estimated that Diana Dragutinovic was not doing well, because if she were a finance minister today, we are now asking – is this her proposal valid? It is true that the government of the Republic of Serbia should stand behind the proposal, but given the reasons for the government's reconstruction and given this unconstitutional provision in the Government Act, that ministers should not talk, then the question is, is this still the government's proposal, or the finance ministry? What is Mr. Nikola Altiparmakov? He began his career as a public debt analyst at the Republic of Serbia Treasury. So, apparently an infamous career, given the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. If he worked and started his career as an analyst in this administration, then he should also have analyzed something, and he drew attention to these regimes so they wouldn't keep us in these debts and take a little care of public debt, public spending at all, but, of course, he obviously didn't do it. After that, he took over, you say, the position of macroeconomic analyst in the macro-fiscal department of the finance ministry. Here, we didn't even know we had that department, but since it didn't give any results that would be expected from a department like this, then it's no wonder we didn't know it existed. He further worked as an economic adviser in the Tax Administration of Serbia, where he followed the process of introducing value added tax and explored the possibilities of reform, etc. Since he was an analyst, and he followed the process of introducing value added tax, I am very interested in whether he recommended that the SRS proposal be rejected, our parliamentary groups, amending the Law on Value Added Tax, where we wanted to protect the family in Serbia by reducing or eliminating VAT on certain products, especially as regards child consumption, i.e. products consumed by children, clothing, shoes, food, textbooks, etc. We didn't hear him come forward. What was he doing next? For the next two years, Mr. Altiparmakov is spending his time working as a consultant on a pension reform project. Aman, why didn't you at least write something that you and he could stand up to? What was done on the pension reform project? The fact that pensioners have nothing to eat? The fact that you're questioning pension payments? The fact that pensions are below each level? And he, man, worked as a consultant on a pension reform project! What else was he doing? As a fiscal adviser on Serbia's economic development project. Where is the economic development of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the people, where is Serbia's economic development? Well, nothing works in Serbia. In Serbia, tens of thousands of people are fired daily. In Serbia, since this government is in power, 250,000 people have lost their jobs. In Serbia, millions of people are unemployed, a million below the existential level. In Serbia, misery, poverty, people have nothing to eat, and he, a man, was engaged in the economic development of Serbia and therefore deserved, among other things, to be a member of the fiscal council of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, the gentleman was perfected at the Institute of the International Monetary Fund and the Center for the Education of the International Association of Actuaries. So, in the International Monetary Fund, there he studied knowledge, there, you know, everyone who is here on behalf of that IMF goes to document Serbia, to owe us beyond any measure, to bring us into the debt slavery phase, in which Serbia, unfortunately, is already today, although no one in the ruling regime will or will not admit it. But you don't have to admit it, see the people live. You see, we've had these days in the media, people are already losing their roof over their heads because of bank debts, public utility companies, etc. Imagine that father and son in Chačka whose house they sold to collect the debt, in comparison to, say, the Serbian presidency building, the government building, the National Assembly, etc., which is millions in debt for municipal accounts. Why doesn't anyone move the president of Serbia out of the cabinet because his building he works in has not been paid utility bills, and that father and son have been moved to Cacca? Here, finally, something Mr. Altiparmakov did well, except that nothing can help the state, he said – as state IT champion, he represented Yugoslavia at the 1998 International Informatics Olympics. So, guys, this is ridiculous. Actually, if it wasn't tragic, it would be funny. What do we have next? For a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee, Zlata Djordjevic, deputy editor-in-chief of the Beta news agency, is proposed. We don't know anything more about Mrs. Zlata Djordjevic, why exactly she was proposed and why you want us to choose her. We don't know. Mirko Cvetkovic signed the proposal. He obviously didn't give a notice to Mr. Stankovic, because he had nothing to tell us about this proposal either. But what should be the theme of this parliament is the current impact of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and then as part of seeing how much Mrs Zlata Djordjevic can help or help the Agency's work, as it has been so far. We all remember, Serbian citizens are well aware of how much the Anti-Corruption Agency has been talking about, how much Mrs Zorana Markovic has promised -- when she comes, corruption is cut from the roots, there will be no more corruption in political parties, neither in state bodies nor in public enterprises, everything will be in order. What did we have for this time? She's already entered the second year of office. What's the result of that agency's work? Nothing, absolutely nothing. Some mistakes by the secretary, so Mrs Markovic told us in public at the time, when it was found that they were presenting some of the wrong information for some of the officials. What is interesting to us in the SRS, and we are confident to the entire Serbian public, is how is it that the Anti-Corruption Agency for a year and a half of its existence has not notified the public in Serbia from which the funds are financed by Vukic and Nikolic's advanced party? So it's a party that doesn't get a single dinar from the Republic of Serbia's budget and has the most expensive local campaign. They don't get off the TV, all in paid terms. They're going around the white world. In the centers of all places they have at the most expensive locations of the party room. They boast about making houses after the King. They say that their volunteers are doing this to them, and then they are taking pictures with Pejo "The Trade" from the King, as if nobody knows who Pedja "The Trademan" is and they don't recognize him behind Nikolic's back. So this agency didn't respond to the roles that you formed it for, or you didn't intend to find out the real truth, because you did, and we still have a Council to fight corruption. She's Mrs. Verica Baraq, who's fighting with the public prosecutor's office and other authorities, is trying to prove various criminal affairs and criminal acts, but, of course, she no longer has your support. She used to. While you could control her, she did. With no more of your support, then you opposed Mrs. Zorana Markovic, who only told the story, and the results are, and the entire public in Serbia sees and knows, zero. Did she discover any corruption affair, or agency she's headed for? Did she finish any of the corruption affair? Have corruption and crime been reduced in the institutions of the system? Unfortunately, they're all negative answers. That's why we can't know if Mrs. Zlata Djordjevic will help with the work of this agency, because we don't know anything about this lady, because you didn't write us anything. The Governing Board of the Republic Agency for Electronic Communications, we have four, five names: Prof. Dr. Jovan Radunović, Deputy President Dr. Zdravko Stanimirović, members of Prof. Dr. Miroslav Dukic, Prof. Dr. Vlade Milicevic and Mr. Vuk Vujovic. Academia titles really for respect. We don't know anything about these people again, and that's why, of course, we won't even talk about them individually, because we don't want to be wrong about anyone. So we ask the promoter, this was signed by Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Ivica Dacic, and the promoter is the government, and we will ask the government. You said, among other things, in terms of what is the legal basis. Okay. "The law stipulates that the Agency's authorities are the Management Board and Director, as well as that the President, Vice-President and members of the Management Board of the Agency choose the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, on the basis of a public competition implemented. “ Our questions, which we don’t have answers to, because they don’t say it here, and they don’t even know the government’s representative, are: was there a competition public; how public it was; how public it was; who competed, were only these people or others who might be better than them? Maybe these are the best, but you didn't convince us. The worst part is, you didn't even bother. Proposal for a list of candidates to elect a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency from the Serbian University Conference. We have two proposals: Professor Natasa Gospić, a university professor, but we have another proposal, Mr. Goran Petrovic, a graduate lawyer from Kragujevac, proposed by the University of Kragujevac Rectorate. It is very interesting that at the level of the University of Kragujeva, there is no professor who would, since this is a proposal from the Serbian University Conference... Is it possible that there are no candidates, but that it has to be someone who's just a graduate lawyer? I'm saying again, nothing about a man, because we don't know anything, you didn't even offer. Now these last two minutes, I'm afraid, will be small. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Now, here, gentlemen, about you, the congregation majority. For the sake of the public, we were at the January meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and we were there in unauthorized composition. There she threatened to let us not participate in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly at all because we did not have any women in the membership of the delegation. The four of us, as many as there are women, we're all deputy members, but no one was a member. We might be able to accept, here, we'll make it right, but the problem was that Mr. Micunovic, as a self-proclaimed head of the delegation, made a big problem, fought dangerously with us, even though we, from Strasbourg through the SRS, informed the public that we had a problem and that the embezzlement was not in the prescribed composition. Then Mr. Micunovic told us that we only want it, but that the delegation is in the prescribed composition. We asked him – if so, Mr. Micunovicu, does that mean that in April we will be in the same composition? He said, "No, it doesn't mean we'll change." Well, if we have to change, then we have to admit that all this time we've been in a delegation that didn't respect, as you like to say, gender equality. One more piece of evidence, I'm done, that you're talking and the other you're working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51984	MP Bojan Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51985	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, today we are talking mostly or almost exclusively about the election of members and representatives of independent regulatory bodies. Many remarks were made in the European Commission's latest report at the end of last year. These decisions will certainly be adopted, but it is fortunate that photos or videos from this congregation do not go to Brussels. This applies practically to all parliamentary groups. I don't think it's a good picture and it's not a good atmosphere in which these decisions are being adopted; most of the time there's no proposal, except for Mr. Stankovic, who is here today, and you, President, are proposing one of the points of the agenda, and the other representatives are not there. I simply cannot imagine what prevented today, say, Mr Predrag Markovic, the newly elected Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, that here is a proposal that was supposed to be represented by former Minister Jasna Matic, which concerns the Agency for Electronic Communications, or some other ministers to represent those proposals behind which they stand. For the second day, we have a problem with the Ministry of Finance, which is now the finance minister, who will certainly not be able to come here every day and defend the proposals behind which his ministry stands or from a few days ago and he as a minister. So, all due respect for Mr. Stankovic, who is here today, but I'm not sure most of the questions we have will be able to answer. I will not speak as broadly and as long as Mrs Radet, I will focus on one of the questions, which is the question of the election of one member, i.e. the filling of one vacant seat in the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, although in the meantime he has highlighted the mandate of three other members, if I am not mistaken, and in the coming weeks or months we will certainly have to choose new members. The Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency at the moment is practically reduced to just a little more than half of the members, in a situation where, from the very beginning, the independent regulatory body, which has been facing a whole series of problems, a lot, I would say too, expects. The RRA Council is expected to address the absolute chaos that exists on Serbia's media scene, especially in the field of electronic media, from resolving the issue of realisation of the programme, to the issue of the broadcaster's behaviour in the campaign for, say, the election of national councils of national minorities. These are the last two decisions made by the RRA Council and it is quite clear, both for one and the other, and for a whole series of other problems that we have these days, that the RRA Council, regardless of who its members are, without the support of the state, which it does not have, without the support of the Committee on Culture and Information of this Parliament, which it does not have, is not here today, will not be able to solve these problems. I'm not going to abuse what happened yesterday, this serious incident that we had with RTS, but I think it's an opportunity, when we're talking about selecting a member of the RRA Council, to talk a little bit about this concept of public television and public service, to see what its shortcomings are and whether we may have made a mistake seven or eight years ago. At the time, the second government was in Serbia. There is absolutely no dispute about it and no idea to point at it, but our experiences and experiences of some other countries in the meantime have shown that not every country can have a BBC as a public service or such a quality of public service, for many reasons. The least of them are related to this parliament and even to the RTS itself. In a country where your program depends either on your subscription or on advertisers, if you are the biggest advertisers, besides several multinational companies, domestic public enterprises, then it is clear that you can't, whether you're a public service, whether you're RTS or any commercial television with a national frequency, I won't even talk about the local television and addiction situation in which they are located, then it's certainly impossible to achieve any of these functions. That's why we have problems like we had on Saturday with closing Serbia's media space for a whole series of very important events, and that's why we have a situation where the public service has to deny itself, blaming the agencies, one of which is also owned by state or public property, as well as RTS. After all, we will be facing a very serious problem here in a few weeks or a few months to end the transmission of the National Assembly. According to all the information available, the open tender failed, not to say it failed. It is simply a topic for this Parliament, regardless of how many people are in the hall today, so that we do not deal with the problem again in minutes to 12, to discuss how we will solve this problem, especially in a situation where there is this kind of objection in this general Harango parliament or that kind of public expectation, which has already been brought to that stage or at that stage, that it is practically eager to put an end to the transfer of these congregations, that with this dirty water they do not leave and some serious achievements of democracy in Serbia, or at least that narrow and rare window. You know, Serbia's radio-television in the last ten days, when it was a particularly up-to-date story about the government's reconstruction, didn't have a specialized show about it. Every honour for monitoring the disaster in Japan, with a lot of compassion for the Japanese people, is good that we are no longer fully on the sidelines of the world, so that sometimes we are interested in what is happening around us, but it would be good to deal with the situation in Serbia or at least the Public Service is dealing with the situation, especially when we see the report of the RRA Council, the latest report on monitoring the work of the broadcaster, primarily the Public Service and the performance of its functions in April 2010. These data are, not to say disastrous, but very worrying and they deny a few things: they deny that offended name as it conveys Serbian Parliaments to the Second RTS Programme prevents RTS from performing its public service functions. At the beginning of the afternoon session, the president said that some programmes from the first RTS programme must be transferred to the Second Programme, so there will be no transfer of the Assembly. He doesn't understand at all what he's going to do to broadcast a football game on the first RTS program, if he has to be broadcast at all on RTS. There aren't many countries in Europe where public television viewers, paid from public sources, will be watching the Champions League tonight. Interest in this kind of transmission exists in commercial television. When RTS enters the race for such a type of transmission, real damage in several ways: first, raises the price of such transmission, closes its programme for those contents that would have to be broadcast at public service, and other televisions would certainly be interested in competing and getting that kind of transmission. And in this situation, at the Second RTS Programme, which is well reserved for the transfer of assembly sessions, there were twice as many sports transmissions and sports programs over the three months observed. To make it even worse for critics of the Assembly's transmissions, especially from RTS, the Assembly's transfers are even more viewed than that sports programme. I have some data for last week: March 7th and 8th, RTS 2, during which, while the Assembly's transmissions were under way, was significantly more watched than the RTS 2 programme on Saturday and Sunday, March 5th and 6th, when, among other things, the matches of the Davis Cup were transferred to the Second RTS Programme. So in that sea of numbers and that volume, not to say the shouting that very often comes from RTS, very often some exact data is forgotten. It is true that the Serbian Parliament has three or four times as much as the entertainment or cultural-art programme at RTS 2, but such programs have six or seven times less than sports transfers. In addition, the Radio-Difusion Act, which regulates the position of Serbian Radio-Television, does not say anything about the performance of the public service function, which is why Serbian citizens, without anyone asking them, pay the monthly amount, which is not small (though they pay less and less, as much as the latest statistics show), so nowhere in this law does it say that the Second RTS Programme is reserved for such a type of programme, and that the First Programme should serve commercial content, no matter how much the series that are broadcast on RTS are viewed. If RTS wants to be commercial television, then there are different rules, there are different conditions on the market. On the one hand, it cannot be protected by the Law on Radio-Difusion and relatively secure sources of income and the specific rules in force without, on the other hand, achieving virtually none of those functions that the law has put in place for RTS. The results are 7, 11, 15%, regardless of whether there are transfers of the Assembly or not. Not to mention the situation in which the RTS on the First Program makes 399 in three months, and in the Second Hundreds of Infractions of the Radio-Difusion Act. They may say that some of these mistakes are unintentional, only catastrophic when most of them refer to violations of Serbian language rules. It is a public service, which must safeguard national culture, national letter, etc. Most of the problems and most of the violations are real in the sector. The fact that the state has formed independent regulatory bodies throughout the whole range of areas, even in this one, does not mean that it can stand by and observe it peacefully, and, on the other hand, does not take any responsibility for it. It is known what the LDP thinks of the current leadership of Serbia's Radio-Television, including its director, but not everything here is a problem, which is a problem in the operation of RTS to bring one man or one group, management that runs that television at the moment. Some other countries had similar problems, so they got involved, some in a good way, some in a bad way. Hungary has recently intervened, obviously in the wrong way, and therefore has relatively serious problems with the European Commission. Some other countries have their own public service problem, the quality of its programme, the way of funding, the issues of whether there are commercial content and advertising in this type of programme, regulated otherwise. Serbia is still unable to do so and I am not sure it will be able to do so even with the incomplete composition of the RRA Council. It's a scary program. I'm not talking about RTS 2 program, look at the RTS 1 software scheme for today: rerun and rerun. Some aren't even listed as reruns, because on RTS, as a rerun, that kind of program is being re-emissioned the next day, no matter how many times you've been in the past, in the past five, six or twelve months, that same program has been broadcast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51986	Thank you. I give my word to MP Milan Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51987	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, a joint single search on the numbered items of the agenda from 23rd to 27th has only one common thread, and this is the choice of candidates for various agencies, councils, parliamentary delegations, and the topics are so diverse that it is simply impossible to talk in this short time about all these topics. I will remain on two topics, which are the choice of the Fiscal Council and the choice of one member of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia. So when we talk about selecting the Fiscal Council, it can be said that there is a dilemma whether both form and essence are satisfied. It's supposed to be, but it's not. Only the form, the legal obligation to choose the Fiscal Council, is satisfied. The point isn't, because this Fiscal Council has virtually no jurisdiction whatsoever. He is an advisory body, which gives its opinion on the conduct of fiscal policy, and when fiscal policy is broken, when non-intentional budget funds are spent, it cannot intervene, it cannot punish those who commit fiscal violations in fiscal policy, it cannot initiate a procedure, it cannot suspend those projects that are found to be not in accordance with the law. After all, one of the members of the Fiscal Council is now the proposal of former Finance Minister Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic. Is this also the proposal of the current finance minister, or Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic? We don't know that. But that's a minor problem. The bigger problem is when you look at something that goes with the members of the Fiscal Council – it falls into your eyes that the salary of the President of the Fiscal Council is about 188,000 dinars, that the members of the Fiscal Council receive about 169.000 dinars. But that's not the end of it. There are special advisers, who receive about 144,000 dinars, with the possibility of increasing their competencies by about 30%, according to the special complexity at work. You see, this is one terrible demagogy. The President of the Fiscal Council has a salary of 188,000 dinars – will receive. The President of the Republic has a salary of about 140,000 dinars and gives part for humanitarian purposes. How is that possible in a country like this that has a responsible government? It is just amazing that in this way you mock the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are barely making ends meet. There are more and more hungry in the Republic of Serbia, more and more people who are out of work. There are more and more people waiting in line in the kitchens for one meal, and you are determining the salary to the members of the Fiscal Council at the time when public debates were held about reducing costs in the state administration. Here's how you cut costs in the state administration. So this is a very ugly decision. Why didn't you find volunteers to work, to be members of the Fiscal Council, when you fight so hard for social justice, when you have so much understanding for hungry citizens of the Republic of Serbia? You will find volunteers very easily to do so. Among our people, there are a lot of economic experts who would be happy to respond to the call to be members of the Fiscal Council. It is the state of this socially responsible government and it is currently in the state of Serbia. Now I'm going to deal with the election of a member of the Health Council. We passed the Health Protection Act in 2005. For several years, this assembly (I also talk about MPs and opposition MPs) fought with the health minister to form a national health council. The minister had no hearing. After a few years, with a lot of debates on who knows how many sessions of the Health and Family Committee, the health minister decided to form something that was a legal obligation, something that stands, which is prescribed by Article 150. The health care law. But when the Health Council was formed, there was a series of violations of the law. Several members of the Law have broken. I'll talk about it later. Shortly thereafter, in December, a member of the Health Council resigned because of his excessive obligations. I'm talking about December 2009, and we're in March 2011. See how responsible this government is and how long it took it, for a year and a half, to propose a new member of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia. In the Health Protection Act, there is something that speaks about the mandate of members of the Health Council, which lasts five years, and about who can and who cannot be a member of the Health Council. If you carefully read this Article 152, a member of the Health Council cannot be a person appointed, in addition to other prohibitions, in the bodies of healthcare organisations, i.e. the bodies of health institutions, higher education institutions, health workers' chambers, the Serbian Medical Society and associations of health institutions. To begin with who is president of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia, do not realize that this is something personal – Professor Dragan Dedic, who is the director of the Infectious Clinic. You have a direct violation of the law. We are telling you that the Law on Health Care is not right, that the law should be amended, and the former minister dealt with the amendments to the Health Protection Act by changing one member, by working additionally on the work of healthcare professionals, which opened the doors to even greater corruption in health institutions. Who can do extra health work? Is there a doctor who works in a suburban, village infirmary who can do extra work? No way. It is known who deals with supplemental work and who has sources of income on one side and on the other and on the third side. The third thing, when it comes to the work of the Health Council, the other day we had a session of the Health and Family Committee, where we were presented with a report on the work of the Health Council, which was not rejected on that committee, but was returned to work, because it was completely inaccurate and did not respond to those requirements provided by the Law. What is interesting is that the president of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia addressed the Health and Family Committee in words that the Health Council had no financial resources, had no technical support from the Ministry, not even a telephone, had no furniture, and when the president of the Health Council addressed the relevant institutions, the RS government, he was then told to contact donors. Mr. Minister, the law says the funds for the work of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia are provided in the budget. How is it possible that something is in the law and the president of the Health Council says he's on donations? So it's just an amazing thing. All this is about the seriousness of the government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to dealing with health problems. The crisis of this irresponsible government seems to have begun with the resignation of former Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic. The crisis has come to an extent that the health system has been seriously damaged and a series of problems have opened up there. Since there is a new health minister present, Mr. Zoran Stankovic, it is an opportunity to say a few words about these things. So, what was what we warned the former Minister of Health, Mr Milosavljevic? First thing, do we know how much public health spending in Serbia is? We received three different data: one from the Ministry of Health, the other from the Republic Health Insurance Office, and the third from the World Bank. The second thing is whether there is a national health account in the Republic of Serbia, and we know that donations have been received in the previous period to make a national health account to know what public health spending is in Serbia? Is the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Office subject to change or any discussion? No, Mr. Minister. We get this financial plan in the framework of the budget, where we have a sum of how many digits with certain definitions, how much total consumption for medicines, how much it goes to the primary level of health care, how much it goes to secondary, how much it goes to the tertiary, and that's so clear that one third of these funds go to the primary level of health care, and two thirds go to the secondary and tertiary level. I think there's a major disturbance here. Could Serbian citizens at the same time fund three parallel health systems, so state, military and private? Next thing you know, can the system meet the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? We had the conviction that we could, but that's where the question opens – if so and if so, then what is the supplemental work? Why are there waiting lists? We didn't get an answer to those questions. Why are the basic rights laid down in the Health Insurance Act being denied in certain institutions in the state property? Serbia's public spokes of an affair with cytostatics, violation of basic health insurance rights at the Institute of Oncology and Radiology of Vojvodina and some other institutions. How have donations and loans been spent for Serbia's health system? Whenever we asked that question, we never got the government's answer. What did you do to curb corruption in health care, and she's tiny, and especially she's big, she's systemically, for which this country is raising loans? When will the corrupt regulations governing health care be lifted? Why aren't professional associations working? At this moment, a chamber of health workers, a dental chamber, is not working, and we have had amendments and additions to the Law on the chambers of health workers. In the end, what concerns ordinary citizens the most, why is the alarming shortage of certain groups of drugs and sanity materials occasionally occurring in Serbia? Remember that winter at Uzice Health Center a surgeon locked himself up with several patients in a surgical block because he wasn't able to show people help because of lack of material? These are the questions we didn't get answers to. All these years, we've been pointing out serious problems, system disturbances, that at this point there's no pleasure in health care workers, and even bigger, I think, the dissatisfaction of service users. There was a health workers strike. Is the patient protected? It's not. Why don't we have a law on the protection of patients' rights? Who protects the right of health workers? In the institutions where the owner is, we have a surrogate, we have an illusion of the rights of patients, we have a person who is the god's protector of patients' rights, but that's the person who's employed in that health care facility, and the question is whose right is he going to protect, the patient or the institution he's getting paid from? The answer is quite clear. Mr. Stankovic, we hope that in some future period we will get those answers from you. Another question is raised: as health minister, will you stand behind the policy that led to this situation in Serbia's health system and continue this kind of policy or will you take some steps? These steps must be a reform of the health system, a change of laws. And to proceed with the reform, your term of office has been served for several months. The question is, in a few months, is it possible to make one fundamental reform. I don't think so, but if you take one step, and the most important step is to prevent the depriving of patients' basic rights, which are guaranteed by the Health Insurance Act, you've taken one decisive and serious step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51988	The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51989	Dear Members, this is my first address to this esteemed gathering and let me give you a brief answer to what you've said so far. The remarks made by Ambassador Radeta are perfectly fine. You all have to get, at least for me, the biographies of people who propose for important functions. If that was not the case, and in particular we see that it has not been delivered to the Assembly, and to the Government it is, then tomorrow at the first session of the government, I will propose that all personnel solutions in the Assembly be accompanied by reasons for the proposed candidate. I'm taking this failure over to the Ministry of Health and it gives me the right to apologize for your failure and to promise that there will be no such thing in the next period. What the MP was saying, I'm sorry, I don't know your name, from LDP, I think it's the same thing, and we're going to be working on removing these problems. What you just said, Mr. Dimitrievich, is one broad diapasone of the problems and I've seen some of these problems. I can give answers to these problems, in some future period, to the MPs of the Assembly, and you should have them. What is extremely significant is that today alone, I have three very strong impressions of health problems, which have been announced by public information. Is it possible that for 30 years we've referred patients to rehabilitation, cardiological rehabilitation in a center that's over a thousand feet above sea level, which is a contraindication to send these patients to the mountain of Zlatar, or to the center of Zlatar? Thirty years, if that's true. The people at the top of cardiology say they didn't participate. This is true in the world, such a regulation that over a thousand meters of cardiological patients are not referred to. That's a big problem. When I got the information this morning, I expected you might ask me that, let's say, a blood supply was dumped in the New Sad because they had run out of time. I've ordered some kind of investigation, which I'm going to refer to the government about first, but you'll get a chance to see. So I'm using this first performance, and I'm not going to burden you anymore, to receive all your demands, all your questions, to make sure that you get adequate and real answers in the next period. But at the same time, I'm asking you, like, let's say, this for the Health Council, that he was formed by law, the competent services have to check it out and then follow the law that applies. In that direction, I thank you for all of these suggestions and all of what you have marked as a problem. Therefore, we will in the next period... We can't do a system reform over the next year. In a year we can do a lot, but nothing. It depends now, in a way, on me as a minister; I told my associates at the Ministry – all that is good and if we do something good, we did it together, for everything that is wrong, it's my fault. Therefore, it may be my too-free statement, but I will try to bring this sort of thing down to at least one extent that can be criticised and allowed in this parliamentary life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51990	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Radeta, the minister has agreed with you and praised your initiatives. But he didn't get it right? I give you my word, if he didn't get what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51991	Thank you very much and thank you Minister, it's really good, the ministers need to speak, or communicate with the MPs. True, I'm a little afraid of what the minister said, given the government law that was brought in. Is this your personal opinion, or is it the government's opinion, that you don't get out of those frames, that you can't say things? A little joke, but unfortunately, the truth. Indeed, suggestions, don't inform yourself from the media, but you can see that you and your associates come up with some data, so that you inform the media. What are we talking about here? Because there is one minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and recently there was another, who, through the work of the government and the ministry, is actually promoting his party. One of them is Mr Ljajic, who, for example, does not solve the problems in the field of labour and social protection. He's acting like an opposition. This has been the case lately with Mladjan Dinkic, a gentleman who is the party's president who has proposed you as minister. What we want to draw your attention to is that if you want to cooperate with the MPs, as far as we're concerned, you will absolutely have it, just please and we suggest that this cooperation be based on some work, based on arguments. We're confident that the Ministry you've come to have a lot of people who've been doing their job safely, that's all you have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51992	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic, replica. The minister simply used his first stay here, so by the way, he gave some information and turned around. I think he understood you quite well, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51993	Thank you, Madam President. So, Mr. Minister, since you were honest in your first address to the MPs, I will continue in that tone. I will try to warn you of one solution, which is the proposal of the Health Council's working body for the assessment of the situation in the Banj-Eclimatical Centres of Serbia. You mentioned a wrong decision earlier, back in 30 years, on the treatment of cardiovascular patients in climatic spas at an altitude of over a thousand meters, probably associated with Zlatibor, Zlatar. You see, in this task force, as far as the assessment of the Banj-Climate resorts is concerned, not to mention the name, I'll let you look at it, one person who's an idea creator of what you're talking about, you know. Until we openly oppose such phenomena, we cannot take a small step.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51994	Thank you. Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the presentation of MPs according to the application for a word, on schedule, in a joint single search of the items on the agenda. I give my word to the MP Milic Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51995	Thank you, Madam President. I cannot take the opportunity to remind you that in the morning part of the session, the minister who was supposed to be present expected exactly what Mr. Minister demonstrated before us today. If that's the government's new energy, I hope things will fix up, but I'm afraid "the fifth that goes to the first corn pot." This was a joke. (President: You know what, I wish on behalf of the MPs we weren't scaring the minister. We commended the minister, of course, if I'm not mistaken. In view of the largely humane solutions at this point, I will rely on a point relating to staff solutions for a member of the Management Board of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Although the Serbian government, whenever one of its officials addresses MPs or the public, points out that one of its primary objectives is to fight corruption and fight corruption, the facts are slightly different and show that the government does not really intend to engage in this fight in the right way. What facts do I want to talk about? The first among them is a report by the European Commission on Serbia's progress, which is being apostrophe that Serbia has had a major problem with corruption and that we have not been dealing with corruption for a while now for three years. The next fact, since day one, the government has obstructed the work of all independent control bodies. How'd she do that? First, by cutting down on human resources, they always had a lack of professional personnel; then, by cutting off financial resources; their work space was always inadequate and very small; then, with weak co-operation and half-information. The next fact I want to talk about is the amendment and addition of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. These changes and additions, gentlemen, have legalized conflict of interest and dual functions. The conflict of interest is a prelude to corruption. It is the first step in corruption, and when the government gives its officials the opportunity to be protected and above the law, then it makes not the first step, but the highway to corruption. With double functions, which are also the product of this law, the government has shown that the Vojvodina MPs are above the law, but, for God's sake, it has also shown that the three mayors (Jagodina, Kragujevac and, as I recall, Zagubovica) are also above the law, as well as the vice-president of the Kragujevac Assembly, because they do not have the need to comply with the law. Then there appeared a famous letter, which the Ministry of Justice, by no means caused, sent to the mayor of Jagodina and amenated that he could remain in dual functions. With this in mind, I will read what Cedomir Cupic says about this: "It can be accepted as one opinion that has no legal basis. The Anti-Corruption Agency is the only competent institution to make legally valid decisions concerning conflict of interest in a specific case. The interpretation given by the Ministry is just an opinion, which is not binding, and I see it that way, and that's how I treat this case. “ The opinion given by the Ministry proved to be exactly an opinion that the Agency had to respect afterwards. Furthermore, in the conflict of interest is one of our colleagues, not only one, more colleagues, but, let's say, Mr. Bajatovic, who is also a national MP, director of "Serbiagas", chairman of the Jugorosgas Management Board, and also receives a salary on those three, four basis. He says he's going to give part of it for humanitarian purposes. We don't know what part or who. Then, the next fact that it's not very bright in public, it's very instructive, it seems to me, it's so-called. the ‘Pismo’ affair. Namely, one citizen, with a full name and last name, referred to the Anti-Corruption Letters Agency, in which he suggested a reasonable doubt that one official is in conflict of interest. That letter was addressed to the Anti-Corruption Agency, but by some miracle, if it's called a miracle, it arrived at the MUP. Now we have to ask the question – who was it that could search the Agency's mail for the fight against corruption? Who in the democratic police, because if she was a Slobin by 2000 non-democratic police, and now the democratic police, who dared to violate human rights and freedoms in such a bold way? The fact that this letter came where it did not belong, and the mailman did not make a mistake, violated the constitutional right of citizens to the inviolability of the letter. The additional injury is that it is an intrusion into the work of the Agency, which is an independent regulatory body. Not to mention that this is about one elemental lack of home education, when you're going through other people's letters, and that's the highlight of tastelessness and abuse. What followed was even more interesting. Just look at Mr. Shabic's response, Commissioner for Public Information. Obviously, this isn't an isolated excess, so this letter-searching isn't an isolated excess. It's been going on for a long time, and this practice has to stop without delay. It is not relevant to the fact that the MAP must not open a mail that does not belong to it unless there is no warrant for it, and that, if the allegations that the letter contained information about the sender is correct, the Personal Data Protection Act has been violated. But neither the Agency, if they already claim that this was happening, should have waited until there was an interception of a delicate notion to react. We can only imagine who information was given here when it was such a delicate letter. Further facts say that about tens of thousands of officials in Serbia are currently in conflict of interest on various grounds, but never published a list of those officials. Some names are being operated on, but there's no public record of that list. Who are these people? Why aren't they on that list? Next, we have concluded that the Agency is working in very difficult conditions, without real support from the state, and then there are still public officials and politicians who conclude that they are above the law and maintain this position of the Agency. It's even more interesting that the state gave them the right to do so. I can't help but feel that the time has come again like when we read in the '90s in the 'Long' which of the politicians will be publicly spit out, who will be arrested and who will be permanently absent. Now we have not only "evening News", now we have some other media that are doing it. So, among those who are above the law of the Anti-Corruption Agency, Cedomir Jovanovic, the MP of the people, and Bozidar Djelic, Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, quoted Cedomir Jovanovic as saying. The Agency has filed criminal charges against them for failing to notify the Agency of the transfer of management rights to its firms, and then the pressures to which the Director and staff of the Agency were exposed. Here is a response from the Anti-Corruption Agency: "The Committee has found that the calls and messages sent by public officials Bozidar Djelic and Cedomir Jovanovic, or persons who have presented themselves as their representatives, exceed the standards of additional interest in the submitted misdemeanors and that, by their dynamics and content, they represent an attempt to intimidate and illicit interference in the work of an independent and independent body. “ It’s a statement from the Anti-Corruption Agency. "The Agency's Committee strongly condemned the phenomenon and warned that any similar attempt to result in the notification of the competent authority to initiate the legal procedure would take place in the future. “ Now I don’t understand why the competent authority is not informed, but I guess they know why. Because of what I've said, it's no wonder it's my impression that the Agency is no longer an independent body. Why do I think it's not an independent body? Here's the famous Dulic case, which first proved to be a man who can't fill out a report, in which he didn't say he was much richer than he was, and then he didn't mention that information that was later revealed in the media, so the director said that everything was fine, that he, as the owner of a company that sells computers, exclusively operates with public enterprises and institutions and collects tens of millions from it. I'm not going to say what about amendments to the Public Procurement Act, which are a direct generator of corruption, simply because I want to leave time and my colleagues, but all of this today assures me that this member of the Agency's Management Board is not going to move anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51996	Thank you. I give my word to the People's MP, Vice President Natasa Jovanovic. He's not here. Replica. Just sign in. (Alexander Martinović, from the city: Mr. Paja Momchilov is here. I'm sorry, I had a deal with Natasha to be her now, but since you're here, I'll give you my word. Replic first. MP Dejan Pisarevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51997	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my dear colleagues, I am investing in a replica based on the presentation of the previous conversation, because she mentioned my President Dragan Markovic to Palm, who is not here. I want to tell her that Mr. Markovic has received the citizens' trust to be a MP, as well as the mayor of Jagodina. He proved it in his work, not in one, but in two terms. I hope it works that way in the third term. His example should be followed by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51998	Thank you. I don't think there's any need for a replica. Milica Vojić Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u51999	Thank you. I'll finish that circle of replicas. I'm very sorry to have to mention your president, the mayor, the MP and all that. I really don't mind him running for president of Russia in the next election. I just have no reason to doubt he'll win. But what's a fact, there's no way, no law to run for both at the same time. It doesn't matter either. What matters is, I'm talking about breaking the law, and your mayor doesn't need to mention this or that. I'm talking about the law on conflict of interest, that and the letter sent by the Justice Department. So that's what I'm talking about. He's mentioned simply as someone who carries it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52000	The People's MP, Pai Mamchilov, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52001	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, honourable Parliament Speakers, honourable Minister Stankovic, here we are, as has already been said, discussing again a group of rules that this parliament should adopt. To tell you the truth, we've already Googled it, and we're used to it. I would be more surprised that the situation is different, that each of these regulations that are on the agenda today in one reasonable time and in a quality way to consider, and then, of course, after that, the majority of the congregation makes a measurement decision. But what's there is, we already have this constant practice. Since I am out of health work, out of profession, in my presentation I will look, of course, at this proposal to elect a member of the Health Council of Serbia. I suppose my predecessors have already made it clear that the underlying problem we met. I'm just taking the opportunity to make an additional argument, perhaps, about the work of the Council, about the expectations of us from the Health Committee, and I believe the public of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, what they expected from one of these bodies, what we have today, and then we're going to use it all to come to the concrete material that we need to deal with. Mr. Stankovic is not responsible for the failure made and we do not have the biography of Professor Savic, who I suppose is a prominent expert. However, as far as we can believe, we have so much right and we don't believe that's true. I'm just going to remind this parliament that after 2000, you've taken away the professorships of many professors, not just teachers, but professors. In any case, discussing without a biography is unquality and illegal. What would be the right measure? The right measure would be to withdraw a document like this, not to apologize. That would be the right measure in a normal and civilized country. Why? An additional argument that makes it necessary – on the Health Committee, we have put a timely search and consideration of this proposal as a part of the agenda, in particular. You can see for yourself if you see the agenda of the last session of the Health Committee. No one came from the called representatives of the Ministry of Health. It's clear to us that it's a new situation, that it's probably where it started. They always responded to us and always came. At our intervention during the very meeting, which he began, whether he would come, we were told that no one would come. For the first time there was this bullet, but we insisted on it at the previous meeting, when they were present, to deliver Professor Savic's biography as well. The health department promised to send it. So we didn't get that. Now we're in a lot of doubt why that is, is that a thin biography, is that something that's problematic? I'm not saying it is, but in a civilized country, this wouldn't come to parliament. Now let's take a few words to look back at the Council. Why is it important for this counsel to work in the way legal norms are designed? You are well aware that in 2005 the Health Protection Act clearly laid down the jurisdiction of its members of this council. This advice should practically be, in my opinion, a piece of advice from wise men (the archon of the ancient Greeks), who takes care of health policy. He's a major advisory and expert body. He was very late formed a year ago and we made remarks on individual human resources in the council. Well, of course, you have suggestions there, and a dental chamber, which didn't come back to life and didn't work at all, to figure out in this council. Not to talk about those other problems we've been dealing with right now. Here, after a year of working this council at the last session, we had a report addressed to the Assembly. What I believe Mr Dimitrijevic said, I don't know if my colleague Verica Radeta said it, we had a fragrant situation: you see, this Health Protection Act is practically being violated in three members. A member, who prescribes who can be a member of the Council, clearly says that he cannot be the director of an institution, but we have members of the Council directors of institutions. In my opinion, that provision of that law is pointless. We criticized it when it was brought in, that it was pointless. We also know why this was brought in, that there are low initiatives, that we are not dealing with them now. That's really pointless, but that's what the law says. However, the directors are sitting down, and the president himself is the director of the institute. What's further is a violation of this law, according to me... Eleven counts are what are the Council's tasks. For example, point 1 - to monitor the development of a health care system. So that's basic, to deal with systemic issues, what's most important. If you are watching, you will see that one of the tasks that is foreseen is the accreditation of the program of continuous education and, practically, the Council has done most of its work throughout the year. However, he dealt with one thing, in our opinion, the very bad way, the wrong way, he was buried with thousands of papers, which he couldn't solve alone; then he passed it on to the Chamber, which helped him solve the situation. We have repeatedly pointed out possible rational solutions, where the right should be delegated to the Serbian Doctor's Society that programs that are being implemented in the activities of this society, which have been going on for over a hundred years in these areas, which is the most important factor for the profession and science, should also bear accreditation, without additional paperwork and continuous writing and repetition. After all, there is no control of what is happening through continuous education. So that's what we pointed to and what it was worth paying attention to. If a further look at what is a violation of the law, Article 155 clearly states that funds are provided in the budget. We were told by the President of the Council that they were doing volunteer work, that they didn't even have a phone and that they had two empty rooms in Germany a few months ago. He read a letter to the Serbian government, asking for basic furniture, not for luxury, but for chairs, not for airports and ashtrays. He's got the answer - you're on your own, find a sponsor. That's how the government treats a top professional body, and that's the real situation today. I said, unfortunately, we live in a time when institutions do not represent what they should represent when the power of decision is not in institutions. What arises from this, as a letter from the government to one such body, is only one cartoon that is deliberately drawn to degrade the institutions of the Serbian system in this interregnum from the pumping of the current so-called so-called. New energy to the next one waiting for you in the fall, when the project of destroying and subduing the opposition under some new boss or old boss will have the next election. That's the point. I want to say this, too. I read, Mr. Minister, that you said that as a priority in your work you would have a fight against corruption. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You should be tasked with caring about the health of the people, which is disastrous. We're biologically endangered. If you take this government's strategic document on sustainable development, read seven points concerning health care, there is also corruption in the end, Mr. Minister, you have a duty to answer this. He says: “Some 6,000 patients in Vojvodina waiting for radiotherapy do not get a chance to heal because of low capacity and trade in waiting lists at the Institute. ” That's your priority, Mr. Minister. Whether you want it or not, you're gonna have to deal with it. Not to read to you the letter to Deger, which you will certainly receive, sent by patients, where they say that in Novi Sad today it is possible for a doctor to earn 500,000 euros a year. That's what the Ombudsman said in Subotica, at the Visegrad Initiative. I don't think there's any business without corruption. I'm sure we can work that out. So the problem is how to implement the reforms. Reforms are a change of policy. Declaratively, however, the previous minister and his assistants agreed to implement reforms, not in part only. It is a major problem with the transition society of Serbia. That's what you're supposed to do. To tell you the truth, I'm very skeptical you'll be able to do that. I appreciate your current professional opus and political opus; I don't like to read that you were an expert in the political Hague war crimes court, so I would never brag about it. It may now be an opportunity for you as Minister of Health, against all other attempts to speak of Vojislav Seselj and his health, both in the Serbian Parliament and in the Health Committee, as a humanist man to raise your voice and take the lead of us who believe he should be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52002	I give my word to Vice President Natashi Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52003	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, within this item of the agenda and these appointments, I will draw attention to what we are participating in, and that is the work of the Serbian delegation in the CoE Parliamentary Assembly. Given that the public was familiar with the problem Serbia had and that Mrs Radeta mentioned in the opening presentation in January, I will try to try to show to other colleagues, who obviously do not know the real truth about it, and also to the Serbian public, all the indifference of the Serbian state, in particular the Democratic Party and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who is represented as head of Serbia's SE delegation, and in a situation where it is called a technical problem. For me as a member, conditionally said, the weaker sex, as well as for all present ladies here in the Assembly, and I believe in all Serbia, is more than offensive – given that, as we said in the opening presentation, you advocate equality in the political system and in the social life of both sexes, and those less represented, in this case it is women – that it is called a technical problem. We are not talking about deputy members of the Serbian delegation here. Serbia has seven members and seven deputies and, according to Radeta, four women from four parliamentary groups. So, this is Mrs Radeta, my smallness, Miss Elvira Kovac and Miss Natasa Vukkovic, participants in the work of the SE Parliamentary Assembly; we have been since 2007, and I think the two colleagues mentioned since the same period. There's been an unprecedented scandal. So Serbia is abounding with scandals on the internal political scene. Believe me, this "Zipovani" Tsvetkovic's cabinet will also be subject to various scandals, although it has been presented as a rescue solution for Serbia for two days. But not only did this really humiliate us as representatives of our country in that body, which was founded long ago in 1949 after the UN and which is based on human rights, because the basic Convention on Human Rights is the basic document of the CoE Parliamentary Assembly, whose SRJ has been a member since 2003, but this shows all the haughtiness and sensitivity of the current government in Serbia. Boris Tadic, who has taken on the role of Pharaoh, the almighty ruler, who dictates and works of the Assembly, who "swims" the government as he wills, determines the resolutions, connects them and separates them, etc., has not announced at all on this issue which I say is both humiliating and offensive. And you have now resorted, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, to the trouble that has personally hit you as speaker of parliament, a compromise solution, in agreement with counterpart Cedomir Jovanovic, although you should have addressed another address. So, as the deal came to pass, whether it was the gentleman's move by Jovanovic, I don't want to go into it, but your address was Dragoljub Micunovic, who made the whole problem. How did he make it? Since a man wants to be and pretends to be the head of the delegation... By the way, he never represents Serbia's interests in the SE Parliamentary Assembly in the way Serbia needs it. As Dick Marty's report was now, and he was telling some kind of philosophical, general story; neither did he mention Thaci's villain, nor was he talking about the UCK, nor was he talking about Serbs whose organs were removed, the way it was happening. No, he talked in his philosophical enthusiasm for three or four minutes, and that's what it all ended up with. When it was due to tell us in time that Serbia is in the rank of San Marino and the recent Serbian Republic of Montenegro, in the event that there are no representatives, to the extent that the Council of Europe requires, is members of the women's sex, co-workers and I, as well as all of the other colleagues present, found out about it at the airport, just before the flight to France. It's really rude, I don't know what other word to use, this is the most decent one, believe me, in the context of all the events. Not only that, the fact is that until the last moment, we were in a tie, some stand-by status, whether we could take part in the debate on Marty's report and other topics, in the work of committees in which we also participate, and co-worker Elvira Kovac and I are members of the Committee on Gender Equality in SE. Simply, his later statements, Mr. Micunovic, showed that he was not worthy of the post he performed as head of the Serbian delegation. Not only that, but there is complete indolence towards the crucial problems that should be treated in this European parliamentary body, it does not touch him at all. It kind of went through with Dick Marty in that speech that was of general character. Much sharper than he was said by representatives of some EU countries who have recognised the Shyptar artificial formation, without him remembering that they have branded the UCK, the Cypriot terrorists and their Western allies, those who funded them and brought us into this situation. The next day when the so-called report was made. Protected witnesses, who submitted to the Council of Europe MP Gardetto of Monaco, of course he was not treated by the topic, although it concerns direct connection, also the presses and tortures the UN tribunal carries out against Serbian citizens in the context of blackmail by UN tribunal investigators to falsely testify, particularly in the case of our President Vojislav Seselj. Here are the people who are legal experts in the defence committee, Mr Krasic spoke about it a million times, over 80 witnesses went through the process, and 55 made written statements. We have met Mr Micunovic on this subject through a special edition of the "Greater Serbia" list, which we have specially printed and taken to SE. So, if he wanted to, he could have called as the head of the delegation. We printed it in Russian, English and French. He's some of those three... I guess he understands Russian at least. I know for a fact that he speaks neither English nor French. It's used in German. In any case, it did not occur to him that in any way he was treating the issue that is important for a Serbian citizen, for the president of the largest opposition political party, for a man who has been in justice for God for over eight years in the Hague case. Then what did he say after he made this problem? And he made it, and you know it, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, it's about who knows when he informed you. He is unable to perform the job of the head of the delegation (because there is such a function in the Council of Europe) because he was not interested in going to the Standing Committee in Antalya in October of the month and telling him that the Regulation 2003 (they have a rule on procedures and procedures for work, as we have our Rules of Procedure here) and that there must be this representation of the less represented gender in national parliaments. I'm afraid, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, that you have indeed done one bad favor to the Democratic Party, whether under pressure, which you have addressed to Cedomir Jovanovic's address. I'll tell you why. Your first address was supposed to be according to whoever stole the SRS mandate and who has the status of a member. Imagine the scandal – em is here with a stolen mandate, Tomislav Nikolic, and an illegal representative of the citizens, he has the status of a member of the Council of Europe! Last year, it seems to me in June, when we spoke to representatives of the Monitoring Committee in the Council of Europe, that's what I told them. I told them – say, here, we are one member of 47, of 46 countries that are members of the Council of Europe, did it happen that after the elections held, someone steals mandates, forms a phantom parliamentary group and then after that, they send him to be a representative of Serbia in such a body? It's the first mess that ever happened to us. Then there was this with one explanation that it was some sort of technical matter. Believe me, the conventions are much higher, not because of the very reputation of the Serbian state, but because of the fact that relations in this lack of healthy communication and putting things in place in Serbia after 20 years of parliamentaryism can never be good. We are an opposition, explicitly, political party, which strongly criticises Tadic's regime and which is an opponent of the Democratic Party and its coalition partners, but does not mean that you can step on us, it does not mean that you can play in such a way with the election will of the citizens, because it is one of the seats of the Serbian representatives of these seven who are usurped by Nikolic as a phantom MP here and there, of course, belongs to the Serbian Radical Party according to the Serbian citizens' election will. We are coming to the situation that it will now be declared, post-festum, the committee responsible at the session that begins on April 11th, but I do not see, except that it will somehow be delayed and that this change will be made between Jovanovic and Mrs Vukovic, that we will be able as a delegation to work for the benefit of Serbian citizens and these crucial national interests in this session and in this way how Mr Micunovic treats us as the head of the delegation. Not only that, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, there is now another problem, which is how long today should be on the agenda of this session, which is the lack of the agenda of the initiative that we have received from the Russian Federation, our brotherly, friendly country, which is helping us always and in every situation, and we from the SRS are in favour of an even greater co-operation with Russia. Here, next week we welcome the Russian Prime Minister, Mr Putin. To this day, also by the will of Dragoljub Micunovic, I am sorry that he is not in the O.R. right now, I haven't seen him in the meeting all day... He put a call in a drawer somewhere by the Russian Federation for Membership of Serbia, i.e. for the status of observers in the collective security agreement organisation, so-called. Which we've been waiting for for for months. Namely, you also had to compromise with the DS, you personally, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, and you know, it is difficult and painful for you, probably with Tadic and Micunovic, with Hope Kolundzija, to send some representatives as president of the Assembly because of the lack of a formed ODKB delegation. Mr. Todorovic had already gone twice as an SRS representative, but you did it because of the absence of a delegation. You know that last week we were at his Excellency Mr Konuzin, in connection with an agreement on the work and functioning of the Russian Federation's Friendship Group and the Serbian Parliament; the first question that was on that side is when we will vote on a permanent delegation, to gain observer status for the next KDKB parliamentary assembly, which will be held on 24 May. How do we get to it when Micunovic consciously shoves it in the drawer? Because he's working with the NATO Pact, that's obvious. He is a man who, from the post of chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, dared to, contrary to all other officials in Serbia, first appear in the Dnevnik of State Television and condemn Colonel Gaddafi and to talk about how we should examine relations with Libya, which is a friendly country for us Serbian Radicals and Serbian patriotic people. Not to mention all the sanctions, since 1992, and I could mention the check that went missing, which Mr. Gaddafi sent after October 5th, so since this doss bulument came, this 18-party conglomerate, you don't know where the check ended. Mr. Seselj, the president of our party, until he went to The Hague, asked him where was the check that Gaddafi sent him, who put him in his pocket? At a time when we need to look back at those countries that are our friends, who don't recognize the chiptarian design of the so-called. Kosovo, Micunovic not only condemns Colonel Gaddafi, he goes on to question the maintenance of the summit, a conference that was held in September of the month at the level of the heads of diplomacy, in a situation where it is known that these countries have helped us in the UN Security Council, everywhere and in every place defend our country's sovereignty, not these friends, or the breakers of Serbia's national space from America and Western Europe, who do not wish us any good. This will end in the vote of a new member of the delegation and the rodo to be made. Nikolic, who travelled to Brussels to discuss his further obedience role as intended by the Brussels directive, as well as Boris Tadic, will return, will again sit in these benches, and we, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, will still be humiliated, although this (which is not a mistake, but an obvious intention of DS) will be corrected by this vote, but the shame and humiliation of Serbia will remain for all time because of this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52004	Thank you. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52005	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. I see you're making a lot of noise, so let me keep you quiet. Your Honor, Madam President, I believe that the Rules of Procedure, Rule 106, have been violated, where it is said that only the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted can be spoken. As far as I am aware, sitting here all day, the theme of today's session is not the impeachment of Mr. Micunovic from the post of president of a parliamentary delegation, but rather the addition of members. When someone is talking about Professor Micunovic in this way wanting to discredit Professor Micunovic, when he talks about his contribution to the work of this committee, the delegation, when someone is talking about the importance that Professor Micunovic has for the return of Serbia to those institutions from which we were expelled while some others have advocated politics that we should not be members of such delegations, that we should not cooperate with the world, I think it is unnecessary to say anything else, except that it is the highlight of indignity, because when Professor Micunovic's work and contribution to the Parliamentary delegation of the Council of Europe speak to those who have told us from the world, they first speak of themselves, and only then of Professor Micunović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52006	National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52007	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, respecting the Rules of Procedure, I will address you, and I have responded to the replica based on the presentation of this failed candidate for minister. Mr. Krasic saw him in this "zip" government, but unfortunately, there was no room for counterpart Milivojevic. Namely, I didn't want to talk at all about Micunovic's character and work as Micunovic. Once upon a time, it seems to me in 1993, and you remember that assembly day, and a colleague of Odalovic certainly, the SRJ Assembly, chaired by Radoman Bozovic, about his character and work and some unfair roles during the post-war period discussed the whole day, so it was over. Mr. Milivojevic, go upstairs to the library, look at the stenograms, there you can see what the epilogue is like. The biggest seal of all, therefore in this discussion, was given by our President Vojislav Seselj, who will repeat that when he returns to the assembly benches soon. As for the release from the world, it is the Democratic Party and such statements by Mr. Micunovic, who is the political director of the Democratic Party, who are telling us out of the world. They threaten us, and by their actions, so are their statements, that we cannot co-operate with the countries that should come here and mark 50 years of the existence of non-classified organizations, and their heads of diplomacy in September. That's what they're questioning. They're the ones who have been holding back, before Vladimir Putin arrived in Serbia, so that we can become and form a delegation... Let me teach you, Mr. Milivojevic, it's not a commission or anything like that; if you don't already know you're processing terms, here, you have in the Rules of Procedure exactly what it's called. So, we can't, even though we still have enough days for the assembly session, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic... We could do it on Friday, if so, call a session with that one item on the agenda and we cheer the Russian side, we cheer the citizens of Serbia and we tell them – no, we are not and we are not for this invention and the EU road offered by the DS, but there are people and MPs who want to see Serbia in the economic, political and military strategic alliance with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52008	Replica, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52009	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, I have no intention of replicating the bankruptcy director of the Serbian Radical Party and what remains of the SRS. Who will be the DS minister is decided by the ruling majority MPs, who will be the government in this country, the country's citizens decide. I too wish Vojislav Seselj's return to Serbia. First, to look at what you've made of the once strongest party; secondly, to see if he'll maybe stay with you or join the SNS and him; thirdly, I want to come here and tell him what I have to say to him, to his professor. Micunovic says to his face what he has to say, that we have the opportunity to discuss everyone's impact and everyone's ineffectiveness in the parliamentary debate. I hope, too, that if Vojislav Seselj decides to stay in the SRS won't take your mandate, that you will stay with him, that someone else will give him a mandate, but I certainly want to talk to him about many issues from our past, because of the future with him and you I can't talk to. Also, when you're talking about prof. Micunovic and the composition of our permanent delegations in the various bodies in which Serbia participate, I can say that Serbia is thanks to the engagement of professors. Micunovic has made a lot of progress when it comes to establishing international co-operation, that Serbia is thanks to the engagement of professors. Micunovic was restored by many broken ties and contacts, on which you worked with air for ten years. But what makes me happy is that you can say whatever you want about me and Professor. Micunovic, but the truth is only one, Serbia's citizens know it very well and know it, as they have shown in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52010	Replica to the authorised representative of the SRS, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52011	Thank you. Maybe he doesn't deserve a comment, because my colleague Milivojevic has a show-off from time to time, and mostly, you noticed, we don't pay attention to it, but given the fact that the ideologist Boris Tadic and DS wanted me to draw attention to him that the SNS made the regime of Boris Tadic, along with the common money received by both Tadic and Nikolic from the US and British Embassy, that Boris Tadic made Tomislav Nikolic and gave him the anti-constitutional mandates of the SRS so that he could do the dirtiest, so Nikolic would do the dirtiest jobs in Serbia, which he didn't dare do even Boris Tadic. Therefore, counterpart Milivojevic should know that. If he doesn't know, here's for his information. And for the Serbian Radical Party, we do not fear for the Democratic Party either. We are always ready for the elections, and the citizens will assess whether they will accept a policy that propagates crime and corruption, betrays state, national interests or be defined as SRS, for Vojislav Seselj, who will soon be in Serbia, and I really don't know why they are so afraid of counterpart Milivojevic, so he mentions it more and more. Vojislav Seselj comes, we hope soon, as a winner and comes to address Serbia's citizens first and foremost. Do not be afraid, colleague Milivoevich, they will certainly not take you into their mouths.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52012	Please, let's get back to the agenda. I give the word to Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. (Dear Stevanovic, from the post: Can he speak in the end? )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52013	There was talk of some kind of change in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52014	It was. I'm sorry, I'm giving the word to Parliamentarian Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to talk about one point within these united points of the agenda, about the election of the Fiscal Council. What I must say at the beginning is that the constitution and choice of the Fiscal Council was neither an idea nor accepted by the Serbian Radical Party. Given that the government has proposed a fiscal council, it seems to me that the government was obliged to provide a more serious atmosphere and that we have at least one of the candidates for members of the Fiscal Council here. Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, when changes were made and the Law on the Budgetary System was complemented, which established this Fiscal Council, introduced over fifty members to the law. In this year, Madam President, your assembly majority approved that council of 70 million dinars from the budget. You have to admit, it's not very small money. Because of all this, the Fiscal Council would have to show a little more respect for this home, and so would those who proposed to these candidates. Today we can challenge the professional credibility of these people who are proposed for the Fiscal Council. My colleagues were talking about them. Of course, when it comes to professional credibility, the government of the Republic of Serbia in this composition does not mean anything, however insistent it is and talk about it. You had a minister with a so-called Professional credibility, and it's no less than the finance minister, so you replaced him. We do not regret that you replaced him, I repeat the story, should be replaced by a finance minister who does not understand his political role. As theoretically subdued as he is and understands public finances and the economy of the public sector, he does not understand his political role and should be removed. But in that same atmosphere and that same logic, the SRS will be managed when it talks about these people. Maybe they're the best economists. If we didn't know some of them we might be able to believe all of this, but what challenges this story is – what does a man in whose biography "CES Mecon" say in the Fiscal Council? What's a man like that doing in the Fiscal Council? No less or less, he was proposed by Boris Tadic. It's clear, it can have 30 or 130 titles, I don't know how many years of work experience here and there, what's he doing there, what's he gonna control? What is the "CES Mecon" in Serbia about, what kind of privatisations? I'll just mention one: an attempt to privatise the Fair, which has failed, etc. What are the other candidates? What does that mean – at least ten years of career in the field of economy? Now they will control ministers who are 30 years old, for example, experiences in the sphere of economics! Watch out for the absurd, member of the Fiscal Council he proposed, I think, now it's already been replaced... How is it possible for Mrs Dragutinovic to propose someone when she is not the finance minister? We don't have Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's consent to this proposal here. They proposed a Master of Economic Sciences at the Fiscal Council, and professional services that assist the Fiscal Council and at his service can have someone who is the least a doctor of science. So much for being serious. That's how much you've brought down the meaning and meaning of something that you're as God-awful as you've insisted on. In 2009, you suggested this. Since 2009, we have been waiting in the Assembly for you to make proposals. You can't do it once because you're replacing the governor, so now who knows what the choice is, since you've changed both the finance minister and the government; it's the only thing that's still old is the promoter Boris Tadic, and with what proposal he came out with, here, and we've been commenting on that a little while ago. Why is this debate important? You have assured us of these fiscal principles and their meaning and meaning. You have established this law and entrusted this council with the job of raising a culture of fiscal responsibility, so you have invented fiscal principles, both general and special. When you go through these general and special principles and conditions in this country, then you can recognize this perspective and the future that some MPs of the Democratic Party are offering us. What's interesting, too, for these people whose biographies are here? All of them have been present in the sphere of public finances in the last ten years. For the past ten years, when Serbia led the worst fiscal policy. The worst fiscal policy. At a time when he was supposed to be running the policy he's now announcing to us by 2020. When you were selling, privatizing, and when the funds were coming out, and then it was being saved, then it was investing in production, then it was creating a business environment in the country. That's not when the consumption was favored, so you've run such a fiscal policy, and you've put the bill out to us now. Now we will have your fiscal misunderstanding to finance and pay. So Prime Minister Cvetkovic offers us a new model of growth, we will finance and develop exports, and then, as a measure of government, he proposes a new possibility of borrowing, so he comes here to the Assembly and says, "Here, now, on the basis of these proposed measures, we will give citizens the opportunity to re-indebt and buy something." And with those informal power centers in the bathroom, it's being held back, or it's promoting a new so-called. The growth model in Serbia. Here it stands, among these general principles that will control this council, the principle of billing. Yesterday and today, we see how much the government is willing to account for. I ask you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, why are you ready to accept it? How long will we be hostages of the irresponsible government, both yesterday and today? They call not them, and call us messengers. How much does the daily congregation cost? We've been waiting for them for four hours yesterday. How long will you agree to that? If you can't contain them, how will the Fiscal Council, which has no function, or mechanism, empower someone to call on something and sanction them? They'll spend at least $70 million on an annual basis. This is also about the principle of justice, the impact on the well-being of present and future generations. We're not in charge of the present, we're in charge of the future and those generations after them. That's what we talked about a hundred times. What did you offer them for those debts? What do they pay for? What will generations and children pay your debts for? You spent that money. What did you leave for them? You left them nothing but problems and stories, and dreams of so-called. To the European Union. The principle of stability, there are no sudden changes in macroeconomic movements. Of course, there are no sudden changes, and the biggest inflation is the price hike as it is, how much the dinar was falling, etc. The principle of transparency. You can't in one municipal company and the municipality get the amount of pay the directors receive. That'll change the fiscal council. The fiscal council will force state authorities to control as many of your directors in public enterprises as they receive. When's that gonna happen? They must not be ordered by courts, let alone by the Commissioner for Information of public importance. You've promoted this fiscal council to all your mouths and said that it would help to regulate this state in fiscal terms. See what your special principles will be like in the Fiscal Council – the sustainability of the debt of the state. It's not a single country's debt sustainable if it doesn't exceed 40%, as you've anticipated with these principles. The sustainability of the debt qualify the economic capacity of the state to repay its debts. Why don't you tell me how much we're gonna spend on interest this year? We're going to give 46,000,000 dinars. What have we left for those generations to pay these debts, in terms of the real sector? What are they going to produce? You didn't leave anything behind. And for what it might be that it exists and does everything seems to be destroyed and stopped. It may seem or not, but the essence is the same. It's an orderly debt service. Seven billion dinars this year will be paid to run guarantees because state institutions and public enterprises are not paying you back. How much interest is on all this? The bigger the debt of a country, the bigger the interest. The bigger the interest, the less space you have to deal with serious things in one country - to make roads, to arrange schooling, to treat people, as Mr. Momchilov just said, to do serious and important things for a country and for a nation. You're talking about the predictability of tax rates and the tax system. You're here yesterday and the day before yesterday... Since New Year's Eve, you've been making a circus with a tax system, you don't know what you're up against, you don't know what VAT rates the government wants, which rates they won't. What kind of property tax it should be and what it shouldn't be. And you're talking about the predictability of the tax system in Serbia! You can't agree on what tax policy you're running. That's what the former finance minister told us. You can't change tax rates, because within the framework of the government you can't make a deal. You're asking us to be constructive and supportive. Of course we're not ready, because you don't know what you want. How do we understand you? Anyone in that government would want to build their own personal or party interest. That's not how the state works. The state is more serious and responsible. Until you're ready to subdue that country to all your potentials, if you have them at all, there will be nothing from this country. It will be much easier to drive you out of power than to further this country and to harass us all in it. From this fiscal council, Mrs. Dejanovic, there will be nothing. Unfortunately, there'll be a dead letter on the paper. You gave him meaning, and we didn't. We can't agree with these things and, of course, we won't support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52016	National MP Donka Banovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52017	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. I would only refer to my colleague Natasa Jovanovic and the debate that was later led with a colleague from the Democratic Party. Women may be less represented in both the Assembly and the Assembly delegations and in other bodies, however, I am quite sure that women are not the weaker sex, but the stronger sex. So we are less represented, but we certainly represent a stronger sex. But that's no reason to be afraid of our men again. I hope the minister didn't get scared either when my colleague led a folk saying that "the singer who finished the first corn in the pot". He's not scared. He's still sitting there. There are about six proposals here, mostly elections and appointments of different bodies. I will refer to the 25th agenda item, it is a list of candidates to elect one member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency from the Serbian University Conference and, unfortunately, the late member of the Republican Broadcasting Agency, Dr Svetozar Stojanovic. Therefore, in accordance with the Radio-Difusion Act, it has been established that, in the event of the end of the term of office before the end of the term of office of a member of the Council, the proposed authorising officer is obliged to submit within two months to the Assembly, or to the Assembly Committee on Culture, a list of candidates for vacant posts. So our Committee on Culture has asked the structure to run, which is the conference of the University of Serbia, to deliver its list of candidates. Also, given that there is no chairman of the Committee, I know that the Committee on Culture has no right to choose; it only establishes the list, therefore, of those proposals it receives and then forwards it to the Assembly, where it is discussed. Otherwise, this future member will also be elected for a period of six years. We received a list of two candidates from the Committee on Culture, so two names: one is Professor Natasa Gospić and the other is Mr Goran Petrovic, and we see from the biography that he is a graduate lawyer. People delivered their biographies, we could read that, but I wouldn't get into analysis. I guess both candidates can do the job. Of course, the congregation majority, I suppose, already knows and has a deal on who it will be. This is a good opportunity to talk a little bit about the work of this body, i.e. the very work of the Republic Broadcasting Agency because the agency really has great powers and responsibility, I underline responsibility when it comes to the work of media, electronic media in the Republic of Serbia. Maybe our expectations of this body are too high. That body is a regulatory independent body, perhaps our expectations of them are too great, that they might actually be able to solve the chaos or part of the chaos that exists in this area in Serbia. On account of a whole series of incidents that happen every day in reality shows on some domestic television... That's what they're called, we don't have a name in Serbian for that kind of show, we call them, in English translation "reality show", reality show. On the occasion of incidents happening daily, because at any moment such a programme is under way, former Culture Minister Mr. Bradic said the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency has the authority to warn, warn or lift the media station's permission to broadcast certain programmes. The former minister also reminded members of the Council, and to God, all of us, that a solution can still be found and that a violation of the Law on Radio-Difusion and Violation of the Code of Conduct and that the TV programme really must not be a daily source of primitiveism and violence. As a society, are we ready and willing to accept and allow electronic media to become an advertising space of misery and disaster because of personal profit? Is that a pattern of behavior that we want our children to accept? I will remind all of us together that many ministries are trying to solve some of the problems that exist in society. For example, the Ministry of Education has spent years conducting a project, somewhere more, somewhere less successful, called "Stop Violence in Schools", so it tries to suppress, prevent violence in children. I also remind you that cities and municipalities are building "safe houses". "Safe houses" serve to make a mother, usually a mother, move into that house, and first of all to get away from children so as not to be victims of family violence. So we have a whole series of actions that we do as a society and we want to prevent some phenomena, to stop them, to keep them as low as possible, and on the other hand, we let every time we turn a television into a house, we get primitiveism, violence, and hate speech. I said I'd look back at the work of the RRA Council. Then I'm obliged to say something else. It is not true that the RRA Council has not had certain attempts to get in the way of such broadcasters and broadcast such programs. So, since 2009, they have reacted as the law allows them, but they have applied the mildest measure, or they have issued warnings and have initiated criminal charges against several televisions. On March 3rd, an analysis appeared in the paper, i.e. the RRA informs citizens of the measures taken for example. Since 2009, at the end of 2009, a television show has been warned and received a misapplication due to the show "The Moment of Truth", 2010 was a violation against a TV show due to a "Farma", 2010 application for a show called "The Mad House", in 2011 due to the show "Dvor". So, for almost two years, the Republic Council has been trying to change something here. Do you know where this is now? It stopped in the Criminal Court. So, for two years, the court has been unable to do the whole thing, even though it's the least punishment, just a reminder, the offense will be some kind of fine... He can't do that. Where's it stuck? It's stuck in a misdemeanor court. Here we have a statement from a gentleman who is acting as President of the Criminal Court in Belgrade, who says – it is true that the case has not been completed, we are currently in the witness hearing phase, etc. But what does he say? He says -- reform, as well as a judicial strike, slowed down work to some extent in these cases. Then he complains further and says that the fact that every judge is working on more than a thousand cases and that he has suggested to his colleagues in court that cases that are interesting to the public pay greater attention. So they paid attention. For two years, they haven't been able to solve a 2009 misapplication! What can be concluded? So, the circus and the crazy houses on TV, the circus in the judiciary, and so we, for God's sake, have a circus and a crazy house in our houses. The RRA Council addressed the former Minister of Culture. I hope now that this new culture minister will have an understanding of their request. So, he addressed the Ministry, and he also addressed the National Assembly, and I hope that we will get the proposal, that changes and additions of the Radio Diffusion Act should be made to the broadcasters directly to express financial penalties. So I expect us to get that bill. But what's hiding here? Now the Council sees that it is a narrow throat, that our courts do not work, so instead of removing problems, now we are going to change that law by allowing the Council to skip misdemeanors, but rather being able to make the measure on its own. So, both that change and the addition of the sword with the two blades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52018	Thank you. I give my word to MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52019	Instead of a former member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, as provided for by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, the government has proposed a new member, Mrs Zlata Djordjevic, who is in fact the deputy editor-in-chief of the BETA news agency, as the government explains. The candidate is further told that the proposed candidate has long experience in the field of fighting corruption. So, years of experience in the field of fighting corruption. To support such an experience, therefore, in the fight against corruption, the government says it has attended certain courses and seminars, citing these courses and seminars. These are some courses in London related to standards in public institutions, then Istanbul, the role of media in the fight against corruption, Illinois, Iowa - Preventing conflicts of interest in public service, etc. The question arises whether these are sufficient references for a member of such an important agency? Normally, we in the SRS personally against this person, as well as others who choose here today, or suggest, have nothing, but we believe that what is written in her work résumé really does not give enough confidence that the candidate with such references will be good enough, quality enough to perform such an important and responsible function. Mr. Minister, specific questions also require concrete answers. That's something that, I'm sure you agree with me, is really logical. Does this government, as it is today, therefore, reconstructed, have answers to specific questions? The specific issues related to this area that I am talking about have been personified in the actual torments of millions of unemployed, in the concrete torments of millions of hungry and poor in this country, hundreds of thousands of those who have been fired from work, as well as millions of disreputed citizens of Serbia. Does this government and this government have answers to these specific questions or to these particular problems, or does it not? You don't have to distract people, you don't have to distract these people with a variety of promises. Do you remember the promises you made when this Anti-Corruption Agency was formed? Indeed, it is not necessary to distract citizens with empty promises of various agencies, commissions and everything you think these agencies and commissions will do. Do you, gentlemen of the government, have the strength to deal with all those who have been illegally enriched? Is this agency enough for that? Is there any power to deal with all those leeches in human form that suck the last drop of this people's blood? Those answers are today being asked of you by the citizens of Serbia. We are asking these answers from you today, on behalf of the great part of the citizens of Serbia. Is it possible that this agency will be a front for the great affairs and corruption that happen every day? Do you think that a "Coluber" will draw attention from hundreds and thousands of corruption affairs that have been and are taking place today and today, which threaten to simply bring this country to ruin, which threaten to bring it to bankruptcy? It's not solved, gentlemen of the government, this crisis with empty promises. You don't solve a bunch of problems with some marketing campaign. Such problems are not solved through the selection of some agencies, the selection of certain commissions, etc. We wonder if the citizens of Serbia will swallow another hook, a hook that you skillfully camouflaged with a great story about an even brighter European Union, in which honey and milk are reportedly flowing? Something like that, Mr. Minister, I'm sure you know, in fishing there's a practical and recognizable name called a cheater. You know, that's what hangs on the hook, great, so she cheats on the fish and she hooks up. How else do you call that story you hung on the hook, that today's lack of bread, milk, etc. replace one wonderful cake when entering the EU? Is it just misleading Serbian citizens and is that something called, like this before, a fraud? When the citizens of Serbia know that, you will be able to get the label of ordinary con men out of them. It is not too late for you to do something for the citizens of Serbia, yet you are not too late to do something for this people. But another question arises, how will you do it when the average net earnings in Serbia are in January, those lucky people who have a chance to work, that they are employed, amounted to 34,009 dinars, which is actually less by the statistics by 15.3% and nominally less by 14.1% than just a month ago? Will the Agency solve any problems, and in this full composition of what it is now? How will you solve the accumulated problems when you have sold out, usually in mafia privatisations, many Serbian businesses, almost everything that could be sold out? Isn't "Colubara" just one cover for something that's about to happen, or isn't it just one scenario, the same scenario we've seen for years since the adoption of the Privatisation Act so far? This scenario is well-known to everyone – it is worth as much as possible and sell as cheaply as possible to the commission, of course, put it in your pocket. But Serbian citizens need to know that the end is near. What will you sell when you sell Telekom and EPS? Do you think the most important thing is to satisfy the form and select only some members of the agency, so some members of the commission, etc? Some specific questions are being raised. Will the Anti-Corruption Agency solve all the accumulated corruption problems in this country or not? Will they at least detect them and report them? Furthermore, what are the effects of concrete activities of the Anti-Corruption Agency so far, from the moment it was set up to this day? Do you, gentlemen of the government, have specific data on the percentages of any reduction in corruption from the time it was formed to this day, which would justify its existence? Normally, in smart countries, if that's not the case, we don't need that agency. Not just her, but not many others. Furthermore, as we stand on the list of corrupt countries, looking from the moment of establishment of this agency to today? Did we increase, reduce ratings, etc? Does anyone have that information? Furthermore, how can we believe that the Agency will justify the purpose of its existence, which is provided for in the law on this agency, if it is almost the greatest corruption in those who are due to process what the Agency submits tomorrow as corrupt cases? All of this on the condition that it comes to the prosecution or to the court, and very often it doesn't, you know that. So this is just one mask, this is just one farce. What is the solution or what is at least the first step in solving this problem? One, all criminals in prison, no exceptions. So there's no selective approach to this problem. Are you ready to provide that? Obviously you didn't. Furthermore, any corruption should be investigated with the same attention and anyone in a corrupt affair must be placed where it belongs. So, even here without a selective approach. It's just the first step to the state's recovery. But the question is that you can take that first step at all. We don't think you can. Not only did you not take that first step, but you are, by the way, still in the cradle. There's no first step yet, unfortunately. This country needs something else, this country needs a responsible statesman who will have enough personal, moral and human integrity, strength and courage to deal with these problems and put every thief in jail. That's the first step we need to take. I can tell you, we are convinced that this statesman is Dr. Vojislav Seselj. His return will help you see how these accumulated problems are solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52020	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. You've got 16 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52021	I don't think it's correct for people who have been suggested to choose for this function to join six points of the agenda; then someone incorrectly interprets that by criticising a proposal someone is expressing the view that all the other candidates are also being criticised. It connects incompatible here, so this is practically the consequence. That's why we have to chase through the parts of this united agenda. At first, I would say that the Fiscal Council was formed, in practice, by the last amendment of the Budgetary System Act; it was formed by order from abroad, because it is one of the conditions for going down this one-way street and for Serbia to somehow run for access to these pre-accession funds, which is the most important thing since 2000 – how to take the money. Because with us politics now comes down to it: sell, spend, be in charge. That's the three things you've been doing for ten or eleven years. You know, when a frog sees the horses weave and she lifts her cap, dude, she gets a horseshoe. It's a folk saying. So someone heard that there was a standard, some regulation for radio-distribution, some earlier government ordered a bill, passed a bill, the law passed a congregation procedure, started to apply, but it was seen that it didn't produce any results. It's changed, there's no score again. It is similar for you with the Anti-Corruption Agency – a warrant on the side that needs to be formed. It's formed. Amendments to the law on conflict of interest have been made to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and given one area relating to officials. There is now number of functions, property etc. Then someone realized to extend jurisdiction, so they implemented amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties and where the Republic Election Commission was and the Finance Committee only wrote – the Anti-Corruption Agency. Why am I saying this? For the simple reason that many things are normally arranged exactly the way the employer and the creator imagined it to be. This creates frustration among politicians, and in the media and citizens, they express their dissatisfaction, they object because there is no such determination to cut something up. I must say, it's not even planned to cut it firmly, firmly and clearly, that it goes with some recognizable system of values. No, they're deliberately in the regulations of real holes, conflicting norms, misunderstandings, etc. Then, at first glance at the unregulated legal situation, they sail. Everyone's sailing. Similar to what the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is doing: allegedly, they've filed charges against someone, they've issued an arrest warrant, they've arrested that man abroad, then two or three months' worth of lan, they let that man go because he's not admitted, then these smart ones drop the charges and the case closed, case solved. So if you want to be legally innocent, just let Vekaric go, but provided you're not a Serb. If you're a Serb, then you're on the orders of Natasa Kandic and you're guilty of what you are and what you're not. So is the Anti-Corruption Agency. I don't want to say names because it's already known. There, a rather significant group of public figures, teachers, etc., who criticised Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic's party, criticised Slobodan Milosevic, criticised Ivica Dacic, criticised Dacic as their student. You don't know that? They say he was a good student, and what's wrong with him, he goes crazy and goes to the SPS. He's been attacked by a lot of things. I was defending Dacic. You know, Montgomery left Serbia because he made a strategic mistake in 2003 during those elections, gave money and promoted some to win a censorship, and with Democrats to continue to rule. However, the concept has failed, and there is no money. Those who failed, they later returned to all functions and they are now monitoring the Democratic Party, not to mess up something. They are here, they appear as needed, and when they have permission and they do not have permission, and we call them here for mercy "principles". You see, something like that has been concentrated at the Anti-Corruption Agency. You have people there who are by definition in conflict of interest, you wouldn't be able to sit there because they're already performing several public functions. One is a great expert in union protests, collective bargaining. I don't want to talk about names at all today, he knows, I said it to his face. He's reporting as a union official, reporting to the university, reporting on these shows, criticizing everything and everything. You know, there's a warrant here, you guys have to choose. It doesn't matter who it is, what it is, you have to choose him, and then in the towers he complains and says, "Where we choose the one in that agency, etc." So here we have something called personal composition, human solutions. The question is how much they meet the conditions to do it safely, honestly and in accordance with the law. It's standing open. Then we have regulations where we also have a big ambition. Now, on one occasion, I'm going to explain. When the Law on the financing of political parties was passed in 2003, everyone grabbed his head. And Srda Popovic, who was deputy president of the parliamentary group, asked Bozidar Djelic to understand, and that Alexandra Drecun, as it were, that no solutions could be made, were simply in practice inadmissible. No, the European standard. He wrote a book, he already sold it in a subscription, etc. Later, some amendments were accepted, and the law changed. However, the book was previously printed, and then there was a conflict between Zoran Zivkovic, Biserka Zivkovic, on the one hand, who changed it, and Bozidar Djelic on the other. It's all written down. What happened? There's a provision there, it seems to me, article 18, says the chairman of the Finance Committee reports to the competent authorities... A few years ago, that law was changed. Instead of the Finance Committee, it is written – the Anti-Corruption Agency, and now the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency reports to the competent authorities, and no one knows which authority is responsible. Here, these days, Director Zorana is signing some requirements for the initiation of infringement proceedings, but cannot be defined as an organ; she has a problem defining herself as an organ, when she is not an organ by law. It does not say there – authorized to initiate actions, but rather to report to the authorities. A misdemeanor is not the competent authority to which something is reported. A request shall be made before him, and a misdemeanor shall be conducted. This was a major problem back in 2003, when the European law of the first democratic government of Serbia was passed. I don't know, this is the third democratic government today. Probably this third one should be better than the first one, probably the third one has to be better by the system of experience and time. Yeah, she's the first one on TV. We have the first democratic prime minister, the first democratic minister, and then the first democratic MP. It all started from January 25th, 2001. There was nothing in Serbia. There was absolutely nothing. I don't know why they haven't been democratic governments since 1990. All those who emerged as a result of the elections and the vote in the National Assembly are probably democratic. Now we have a third democratic government, which is full of, overachieving, as they say. You see, the regulations have been changed. The same thing was said here about good intentions. When that fog breaks up, good intentions, good wishes, let's see what's left. The rest is unregulated and no work can be done. Then we have a situation for someone to do according to the law, use their powers, and then Pajtic jumps – that's not true for the province of Vojvodina, please, ma, that agency will now tell us in the circuit assembly what province MPs can have, what they don't have. He can't say that. How can he say that? How can the Agency warn the president of the democratic government of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina? He can't. It's forbidden. When I listen here, how many people are now talking about how these are European standards, I don't know what to believe. What do I believe in? I don't know. That's the situation. The regulation is amended because we need to introduce European standards. It's been two months, we have to change that same rule again. Why didn't the European standards change in the meantime? What's changed? Nothing's changed. Either some NGO went to Brussels and reported it or Natasa Kandic thundered there. Here, today, Tom submits a report there. It also criticises you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, for not giving him the replicas, which you deny him the right, and you made him a party. See? You made him a party here, he went to criticise you. This is the old saying: “Food dogs to bite you. ” It's that old Serbian saying. You all nicely prepared him, trained him etc., he went to report you. He says, "I'm a step ahead, I'm a step faster." Okay, that's now, I can't keep up with those who are for the EU and NATO pact. I'm here to argue with you, to get us out of that fight of yours into some other situation, and I'm doing it very well, believe me. I'm doing very well. That job's going well for me. I can fight two eyes in my head. I'm counting on this G17 government plus to argue, with your argument, which is allowed. Please, with your argument, it's all allowed. On one case, I told you that, say, at the Anti-Corruption Agency, it was designed to be so. So nothing can be regulated. There's no clean bill. Why? Because then in that toad can get away with it, now we're gonna get this one, it's good, let's go to the soybeans, now we're gonna get this one. There's always some legal basis. I was almost looking at one request to initiate a misdemeanor procedure written by the Agency. They killed poor people to find a legal basis for what they wrote, so they quoted Article 1. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act. In the history of law, it has not occurred that the first member of a law defines jurisdiction or authority to initiate a misdemeanour procedure. It didn't happen. They've got somewhere to go. They are now our creators of the Law on the financing of political parties. We're not political parties anymore, you know. Now we're going to be political subjects. Why? Because the law is made for NGOs as political entities, and the media should create a sense of disgust for the National Assembly and for all politicians, to promote something else. Yesterday we had a chance to see by calling that he was a miner, and by weight we'd say he worked in a butcher shop. He represents mining rights. Today in Serbia, this is the situation, everyone can hang a board, and it is presented to be that and that. Can that go away? Depends on the media and depends on most. There's no other criteria. You know what would happen... Excuse me, do I have more time? What would happen in the profession of Mr. Paja Momchilov, Mr. Zoran Stankovic (no one of my Marinkovic), if the principle of the majority was applied in their profession, I'm sorry, Mrs. Djukic, and you, too, if you were to use the principle of the majority in your profession, would any of your patients ever be cured? Stankovic's none, he would by definition not be cured, but would any of your patients be cured? What would you say, Mr. Stankovic, if, by some principle, you wrote an expert report and took five of your colleagues to look at it? They don't have to see the name or the last name. That's what you've been doing in super-skilling, etc. Come on, let's get back to something normal. If we want to regulate an area, let's regulate it from all sides of the area. Let me remind you, we've been showing you all of this in time, submitting amendments. Do not choose those people in the Agency. I don't want to talk about names on purpose. You know why? Because they no longer correspond to those in power. You'll have to put up with them. Your choice was. You have to put up with them to get the courage to tell your boss that you can't unspeakably execute everything. That's our problem, with our regulations and our choices. There's a lot of confusion here. These aren't as independent, or as many regulatory bodies as they're given, but in public, it's because we have bad laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-16-0.u52022	You didn't hear me, time. Is there anyone else who hasn't used the right of Article 96? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search. I thank Mr. Stankovic, our Minister of Health, and you, dear Members of Parliament. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we begin today's session, please pay our respects to the victims of the disaster in Japan for a minute of silence. Praise them. We continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 94 MPs in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure? Allow me to inform who the representatives are: for the LDP parliamentary group Kenan Hajdarevic, Vjerica Radeta for the SRS Parliamentary Group, Veroljub Arsic for the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia. Is it one of the presidents, or... Mrs. Verica Radeta, please.
