ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65120	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that we are 94, i.e. I remind you that Article 88 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exist if the majority is present at the session, and of the total number of MPs, and in order to determine the number of present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic system. I figure there's 126 or 127 of us at this point, so there are conditions to keep working. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda, we are moving to the decision of the First Point of the Agenda - THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE SINGLE PURPOSE. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Single Election List of Principles. Of 128 votes to 126. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle and we move on to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandar Martinovic, Bojan Mladenovic, Milan Avramović, Dusan Maric and Zoran Krasic. Of 128, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Bojan Mladenovic, Milan Avramovic, Dusan Maric and Zoran Krasic. Of 128, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandar Martinović, Bojan Mladenovic, Milan Avramović, Dusan Maric, Zoran Krasic together Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Of 128, two for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandar Martinovic, Bojan Mladenovic, Milan Avramovic, Dusan Maric and Zoran Krasic. Of 128, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilovic, Srdjan Sapsojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Please let us plead. Of the 128, the amendment voted 110. I find that the Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment in the same text was brought together by MPs: Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandar Martinović, Bojan Mladenovic, Milan Avramović, Dusan Maric and Zoran Krasic, together Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilović and Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group. Of 128, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandar Martinovic, Bojan Mladenovic, Milan Avramović, Dusan Maric and Zoran Krasic. Of 128, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted an amendment with a correction. Of 128, it's 118 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. I remind you that the amendment of MP Milisav Petronivic was adopted as Article 7 which provides for this law to take effect the next day from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. Of the 128, 120 MPs voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Single Election List Act in general. Please make a statement. Of 128, it's 124 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Single Election List Act. We move to the Second Point of the Agenda – PROPOSAL OF KINEMATOGRAPHY After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on cinematography in principle. Please make a statement. Of 128, 120 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on the amendments, I remind you that MP Gordana Komic has withdrawn amendments to Articles 12, 19 and 33 during the search. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please make a statement. Of 128, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 128, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 2 and all the members mentioning the words "production" and "distribution", the amendment was tabled by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 128, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Culture accepted the amendment. Of 128, it's 118 MPs. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The National MP Lidija Vukicevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please plead. None of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. ` The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 9 for. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric and Bojan Djuric submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Please plead. None of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3, all members mentioning the "producer" the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs no one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 13 for. The amendment was not accepted pursuant to Article 156(3). The Rules of Procedure of Article 4 of the amendment have been tabled by the Committee on Culture and Information, and I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 117 for. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Djuric. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted on Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, 10 for. The amendment was not accepted on Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. None of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted On Article 7 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted On Article 7 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 116 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 10th amendment, an amendment with a correction, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted on Article 10 of the amendment by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 95 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 4 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 6 for. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted On Article 12 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, 114 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Djordje Milicevic and joint MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Djuric submitted an amendment, in the same text, suggesting that a new article 13a be added after Article 13. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, 105 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MP for the Progressive Group of Serbia. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, one for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Bojan Djuric. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 17th amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of 128 MPs, seven for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, 115 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 110 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Fa Tomic. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of 128 MPs, three for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the basis of Article 156, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure, on Article 18 of the amendment, were submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 107 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 19th amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Fa Tomic. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 17 for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 20th amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic Please enter the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group to Serbia. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MP for the Progressive Group of Serbia. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic submitted the title above Article 26 of the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group to Serbia. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MP for the Progressive Group of Serbia. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 103 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MP for the Progressive Group of Serbia. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 34th amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Fa Tomic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of 129 MPs, 112 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 108 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Zoran Popovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Fa Tomic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 114 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on cinematography in general. I ask the MPs to make a statement about the bill. Of the 129 MPs, 123 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on cinematography. We move to the third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Changes to the Law on Living. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I'm putting the motion to vote on the law amending the housing law, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 115 voted in favour. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting to the vote a bill amending the House Act, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the House Act. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the laws on the promotion of the construction of the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia in terms of economic crisis. I put the bill to a vote in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I'm asking you to make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 123 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan Skrbic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you it's Article 2. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier, only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly just reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 116 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 118 voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the Encouragement of the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of the economic crisis. We move to the fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the Agency for Economic Registers. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 118 voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new article be added in front of article 1. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added in front of article 1. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The MPs Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilovic and Srdjan Spasojevic together submitted to the 1st amendment, with a correction. The government has accepted the amendment, with a correction. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 109 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government has accepted the amendment with the correction. Of the 129 MPs, 104 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 92 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of the 6a be added after article 6. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 111 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of the 8a be added after article 8. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for Economic Registers. We move to the sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on registration procedure in the Agency for Economic Registers. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the proposal in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 120 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 98 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 74 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Miroslav Markicevic Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 102 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Radoslav Mojsilovic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 98 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 31st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Radoslav Mojsilovic. The government has accepted an amendment of 129 MPs, 105 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 37th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 100 for. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 41st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 44th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 48th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers, in general. Of 129 MPs, 125 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on registration procedures at the Agency for Economic Registers. We declare the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completions of the Law on Economic Society since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, 125 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted the amendments to Article 6. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 119 for. The amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the company law as a whole. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, 120 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Company Act. We declare the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF THE LAW ON THE PRESERVATION OF ACTIONARY SOCIES Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 118 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 97 for. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 97 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 98 for. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the takeover of stock companies, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 122 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Act on the acquisition of stock companies. We declare the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Security Act Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, 120 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law amending the Insurance Act, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 117 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Insurance Act. We move to the 10th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on the Obligation of the Republic of Serbia at the Commercial Bank A.D. BELGRAD FOR THE NEEDS OF THE BUYING OF THE AEROINJENJERING BUDGET AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF UNCOMMODATION WORKS ON THE PURPOSE OF THE FIRST BASE COURT IN BELGRAD Since the National Assembly has carried out a general search and before the transition to decision, I remind you that, under Article 105(4) of Article 105(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, the decision on public borrowing laws. So to vote, we need 126 votes. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted the bill, in principle, and we move to a decision on amendments. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 people's MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you of article 6. The draft law provides that the law enters into force the following day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", and in accordance with Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication, and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In the light of the proposal for a law, the Government stated that with particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law, within the meaning of Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia consists in the need for the loan agreement to be concluded as soon as possible, so that the ministry of justice does not fall into delay. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the last particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force of the law within eight days of the date of their publication, since we have completed the amendment decision we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting the vote on the proposal for the Law on the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the Commercial Bank of A.D. Belgrade for the purchase of the Aeroengineering Building and the execution of necessary work on the facility for the purposes of the first basic court in Belgrade, in general. Of course, 126 votes are required if we want to vote this proposal. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, passed a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at the " Commercial Bank" of Belgrade for the purposes of buying the Aeroengineering Building and carrying out the necessary works on the facility for the purposes of the first basic court in Belgrade. We are voting on proposals for a law confirming international agreements from 11th to 18th of the agenda. Since we have decided on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement of all these points, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3 of point 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I would like to make it clear about the proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement and the Programme for the "Rehabilitation of the Remote Grain System in Serbia – Phase IV" to the amount of 45,000 000 Euros between KFW, Francfurt on the Main and Republic of Serbia. Of the 129 MPs, 126 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote on the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Loan and Financialisation between KFW, Francfurt on the Main and Republic of Serbia, amounting to EUR 25,000,000 for "the water supply and sewerage programme in the districts of the medium size Serbia II – Phase 2". Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Amending Agreements and Supplements between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank on the founding and active activities of the European Investment Bank in the Republic of Serbia. Of the 129 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Syringe between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the fight against serious criminal acts, particularly terrorism and organised crime. Of the 129 MPs, all 129 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Assadism in the fight against organised crime, international illegal drug trade and international terrorism between the Republic of Serbia and the Council of the Ministers of the Republic of Albania. Of the 129 MPs, 127 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put it to a vote – Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on conditions of travel for the citizens of the two countries. Of the 129 MPs, 127 for. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has passed the bill. We declare the 17th item of the agenda: THE PROPOSAL OF THE SECURITATION LAW BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE BulgarianS ON SOCIAL SAFETY OF 129 National MPs, 126 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We declare the 18th item of the agenda: THE PROPOSAL OF THE VEHICLE ON AUTHORITY OF THE AUTHORITY OF THE AUTHORITY OF THE VEHICLE TECHNICAL VEHICLES FOR VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT AND PARTS THAT CAN BE INSTRUMENTED OR USED ON VEHICLES WITH VEHICLES AND VEHICLES FOR SUPPOSED APPROVAL OF APPROVAL ON THE BASE OF THESE PROGRAMMES OF 129 National MPs, 128 for. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We declare on the 19th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON CONSOLIDATION OF THE FINANCIAL PLAN OF THE AGENCY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2011. A year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 124 for. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision to give its consent to the financial plan of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2011. We move to the 20th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON DECLARATION TO THE FINANCIAL PLAN OF THE SERVE ENTERGETICS AGENCY FOR 2012. A year. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 121 for. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision to give its consent to the financial plan of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia for 2012. We're pleading on a motion for a constitutional court law. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly has not yet voted on the agenda of the 11th extraordinary session in 2011 held in September 2011. About that, and given the fact that the conditions for voting have been met. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Monday 26 December 2011, immediately after the end of the statement after the already scheduled vote today, as the day for voting on all the agenda points of the 11th extraordinary session in 2011. Also, I would like to inform you that the start of the scheduled session will be delayed and will begin after the vote is completed. We declare on - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Court. I'm putting it to a vote. Of the 128 MPs, 123 voted. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, table for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 102 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 5, was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 115 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 5a be added after Article 5a. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please plead. For one, of 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Of 128, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Boris Aleksic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Of 128, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please plead. None of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. None of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 12th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Of 128, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Please plead. For 101, of 128 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please plead. None of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. None of the 128 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 31st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 35th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 37. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please plead. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 40a be added after member of the 40a. Please plead. For none of the 129 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 41st amendment were submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. Of 129, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Constitutional Court Act in general. Of 129, 123 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Constitutional Court Act. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of Parliament to the violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provisions of Rule 103(6) and Rule 10 of the Rules of Procedure, which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without any justification, that the National Assembly, without a search, be declared in the day of voting. In agreement with the above provisions, we move to a decision. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 15 December 2011, at 17 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 27, 106, 107 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Of the 129 People's Rules of Procedure, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 16 December 2011, at 15 hours and nine minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Of the 129 People's Rules of Procedure, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. (The session is closed at 11.48 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65121	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY The 11th extraordinary session of December 26th 2011 (The session began at 12.10 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65122	Dear People's MPs, as voting day for the 11th extraordinary session, I set 26 December 2011 at 12.14 p.m. That means we're going to vote first, and right after the vote is over, we're starting a session that was scheduled for 12:00. So we continue to work by deciding on the agenda points of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2011. Please re-establish the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 126 MPs in the room, that is, most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for decision-making. We declare the 1st point of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft law on railways to the vote, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 11 voted for the bill in principle. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the bill in principle, which is why we do not further declare ourselves to this law. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF PANTS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the patent bill to the vote in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 123 voted in favour of the bill. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, one for. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 100 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 95 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 97 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 95 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic tabled an amendment suggesting that he add a new member of the 7a. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs no one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Donka Banovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the 21st amendment, with the correction, the MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic jointly submitted to the 28th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 31st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 103 voted. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 46th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 48th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 51st amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 95 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 61st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 61st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 68th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 96 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic to Article 78. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 94 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic to Article 79th point 5. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic Of 129 MPs, no one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 84th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 85th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 96 for. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic to article 87. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Of the 129 MPs, 99 for. The amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic to Article 97. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 125th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the amendment together. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 132nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to Article 168. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 177th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the patent bill, in general. Of the 129 MPs, 127 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed the patent bill. We declare the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and APPLICATION OF AUTHORITY AND ASSOCIATION Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 122 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle and we move on to a decision on amendments. The People's MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 2nd amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Diitrijević submitted together to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Diitrijević. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 7th amendment. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Of 128 MPs, 93 for. The amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 8th amendment together. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 98 for. The amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Goran Mihajalovic submitted to the 13th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojić Makorvic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted the amendment together. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 38th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 110 for. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act in general. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 123 for. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I conclude the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. The session is closed at 12.45 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65123	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly The sixth session of the 2nd regular session of 26 December 2011 (The session began at 12.45 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find 94 MPs are present at the session. I remind you that Article 88(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provides that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the units of the electronic voting system. Since we're 126, we can keep working. I would like to inform you that she was prevented from attending the session of Aleksandra Jankovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and exceptional for Monday, so other than those laid down in Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The MP of the National Assembly, for the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that, apart from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Milutin Mrvetkovic, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Ivica Dacic, First Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Minister of the Interior, Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Energy and Dr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, I have called for the sittings to attend: Dusan Nikezić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ruzica Stoiljkovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Nada Mirkovic, Head of Finance and Dejan Hadzic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance. You have been presented with the minutes of the Second and Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions, as provided for in Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 18, 19, 20, 25, 26 and 27 October and 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 14, 17 and 22 November 2011. Please press the corresponding key. Of 128 MPs, 97 for. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 5 December 2011. Please press the corresponding key. Of 128 MPs, 120 for. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, held on 5 December 2011. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the motion to merge the debate and the proposal to change the order of each item of the agenda. The Committee of the National Assembly of Justice and Administration has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the post of member of the VSS, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, 121 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on the 2012 budget of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda with proposals for decisions on granting consent to the financial plans for 2012: 1) of the Republic Fund for PIO, 2) of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, 3) of the National Employment Service, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 December 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 129 of us to the extent that he declares himself, 113 is in favour. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed that the draft Act amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 December 2011, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 113 voted in favour of this proposal. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Law on Public Roads, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 December 2011, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 107 is in favour. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed that the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, which was submitted on 22 December 2011, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 114 voted in favour of this proposal. The assembly also adopted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 106 is in favour. The proposal was passed. The government has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which was submitted on 22 December 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 108 is in favour. The proposal has been accepted. The government proposed that the draft law supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 105 is in favour. The proposal has been accepted. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 111 voted in favour of the proposal. The proposal has been accepted. The government proposed that the draft law amending the Law on Court Taxes, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2011, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 114 is in favour. The proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 118 is in favour. The proposal has been accepted. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Fund, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2011. Please make a statement. Of 129 MPs, 110 for. The proposal has been accepted. National MP Gordana Comic suggested putting on the agenda the proposal for a decision on the Commission's education to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for the implementation of UN-woman Security Council Resolution 1325, peace and security in the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 23 December 2011. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, 112 voted in favour of the proposal. I find the proposal accepted. National MP Gordana Comić, based on Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 170. 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2012, with proposals for a decision to give consent to the financial plans for 2012: 1) of the Republic Fund for PIO, 2) of the Republic Fund for Health Insurance, 3) of the National Employment Service; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Accumulations; Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contribution to Obligation of Social Insurance; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Amendments to the Laws of the Laws of Public Procedures and of the Rules of Procedures on the Laws of Laws of the Laws of the Laws of Laws of the Laws of the Laws of Laws of the Public and of the Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of Laws and of Laws and of the Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws. Then, the 2nd Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure; Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Court Orders; Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judicial Taxes and a Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Does the MP, Mrs. Gordana Comic, want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 131 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Proposal to change the order of certain points. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed changing the order of the sitting agenda, so that the order of the agenda points would be as follows: 1. Proposal for a Law on the 2012 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions to give consent to financial plans for 2012: 1) of the Republic Fund for PIO, 2) of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, 3) to the National Employment Service; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory insurance in traffic; 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads; 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Environment Fund. 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure; 12. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Regulating Courts; 13. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office; 14. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Court Taxes 15. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of a member of the High Council of the judiciary. 16. Proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for the application of UN Security Council 1325, the Women's Council, peace and security in the Republic of Serbia (2010). (2015) Does Vice President Gordana Comic want a word? No, I don't. ) I put the motion to vote for Parliament Gordana Komic. Of the 131 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, the proposal to merge the debate and the proposal to change the order of the agenda items pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. Of the 131 MPs, 125 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 in general and I ask the service to prepare a consolidated text of the agenda. 1. Proposal for a Law on the 2012 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions to give consent to financial plans for 2012: 1) of the Republic Fund for PIO, 2) of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, 3) to the National Employment Service; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory insurance in traffic; 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads; 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Environment Fund. 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure; 12. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Regulating Courts; 13. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office; 14. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Court Taxes 15. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of a member of the High Council of the judiciary. 16. Proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for the application of UN Security Council 1325, the Women's Council, peace and security in the Republic of Serbia (2010). (2015) We move to work on the established agenda, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Radeta reported. Just a moment to open the agenda. Mrs. Radeta is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65125	Ladies and gentlemen, member 27 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure because the president of parliament, who is under the obligation of this member to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, past the Rules of Procedure and past the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, has allowed the adoption of a completely non-regulatory agenda. The merger of grandmothers and frogs within this first group where the law is passed, the 2012 budget law is absolutely contrary to Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure which provide that the items of the agenda to be merged into a single debate must be mutually conditional or shall be mutually interrelated. I don't know if anyone can explain how the Law on Public Roads and, say, the Environmental Fund Act is related to the Budget Act for next year. What is even worse, you predicted that the vote should be voted, that is to say, to discuss the budget and these other laws, and you made it clear that the budget, the vote on the budget, was particularly regulated, not only by our Rules of Procedure, but by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 105. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts that a qualified majority is necessary to vote the budget, and that all other laws you put into the same basket require a simple majority. So it was absolutely impossible to connect these agenda points in the way that you did it. Of course, you want to talk about the budget as little as possible to pay attention to these other proposals that you have combined in this unique search, and I would also ask you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, if you have drawn from the hat ministers who are present and who are to attend the debate on the budget, instead of having the whole government here today in front of the MPs. Not to mention how much the deadlines for the Budgetary System Act have been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65126	You've broken the time limit allowed. So, Mrs Radeta, according to my assessment, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly decided to merge the agenda points, the common financial effect, and it is not really controversial. But if you are not satisfied with my response in the voting day, the Assembly will declare whether there has been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. MP Dejan Mirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65127	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, as an authorised representative of the SRS, I am protesting and I believe that Article 97 of Section 3 has been violated. The Rules of Procedure are simply, this is the most important law, the Budget Law, and we are not to blame for 45 days late for adopting this budget. It's simply an inadmissible violation of the Budgetary System Act. Also, it is a budget that has a thousand and some sides and it is just amazing that it is treated as one ordinary law and I think it is because of the normal work of parliament, because of an argumentable debate on the budget, and we have, and other parliamentary groups have objections. It's a very bad budget. I think the least you can do is just extend it in accordance with Article 97(3). Rules of Procedure, to duplicate a more precise debate on this agenda point. Because it's simply not, I repeat again, it's not about ordinary law, it's about the most important law, and I say again, the government is guilty and the prime minister is because 45 days are late with the adoption of the budget and almost 15 days late with the budget debate. It's just amazing, you have to show some kind of goodwill because it's, again, I'm repeating the most important law in this year that we're discussing. Therefore, I urge you and suggest you simply adopt my proposal and extend this debate, i.e. I mean, double it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65128	Mr Mirovic, you are getting applause but I must say that you are not an authorised representative of your parliamentary group until we open the agenda point, but since we have heard you hear about this proposal we will come forward in a timely manner, so when it opens the agenda point, and not now. All right, all right. I put Mr. Dejan Mirovic to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 152 MPs, 37 voted in favour of Mr Mirovic's proposal, and the assembly did not accept the proposal. We move on to a joint principled single search on the 2012 draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions to agree on financial plans for 2012. 1) of the Republic Fund for PIO, 2) of the Republic Fund for Health Insurance, 3) of the National Employment Service; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System Act; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Procedures and Tax Administration; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligatory Insurance in Transport; - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads; - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport Safety on Roads, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection. Consensually Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principled single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 10 of the agenda and before the opening of a joint principled single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups are five hours, as well as that this time allocates to parliamentary groups a proportional number of MPs, members of parliamentary groups, and the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of the Parliament group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if you have not done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MP groups of this moment have authorised them to represent them on the agenda points: MP Zoran Kasalovic, MP of the SPS – JS; MP Slobodan Samardzic, MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Bojan Djuric, LDP; MP Dejan Radenkovic, MP of the SRS; MP Aleksandar Vlahović, MP of the ZES Group, and so far it has been reported. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 192(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principled single search on the draft Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2012 with proposals for decisions on granting consent to the financial plans for 2012, the Republic Fund for Pension and Invalidity Insurance, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the National Employment Service, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises, the Taxation of Legal Persons, the Law on Contribution to Legal Rights, the Law on Safety of Traffic on Roads and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Environmental Fund. Does the proposal representative Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister and Finance Minister want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65129	Dear Members of the Parliament, I would like to welcome you all and express my great satisfaction that together with you, on the one hand, the Government, on the other hand, we have come to the situation to consider the fourth budget in line in the term of this government and, at the same time, to express the satisfaction for the great effort we have made together, not only on the budget, but also on the adoption and other laws, so here this session shows that we will be in the working atmosphere, practically by the end of this calendar year, and I am taking the opportunity to also congratulate you on the New Year's Day. The budget, as you know, is a key document that sets out economic policy, primarily the government's fiscal policy for next year, and I hope that through its comprehensive debate we will end up with the document needed by the state of Serbia, which will allow us to face the crisis and to go through as little negative effects as possible. As you know, the government has prepared the budget in conditions of slow economic growth, caused by the effects of the eurozone crisis, thus reducing projected growth next year to 1.5% of GDP and adapting economic policy by representing crisis conditions. Accordingly, total budget revenues of around 750 billion dinars and total expenditures of 890 billion dinars are foreseen. The budget deficit at the republican level was 140 billion dinars, while the consolidated deficit of the state was 152 billion dinars or 4.25% of GDP. The projected deficit level is lower than the fiscal rule, reducing the need for borrowing and leaving room for further adjustment in conditions of increased risk of recession in Europe and the world. The deficit will mostly be financed from the debt, but practically the total amount will be invested in capital investments. This also does not provide for debt to finance current expenditure, but also allows through the necessary fiscal input to increase domestic demand, and thus also economic activities in Serbia. Finally, through investment in capital investments, the deficit in 2012 is ensured to be invested in Serbia's future development. The functional structure of the budget is the following, 41.8% is set aside for social protection, 15.3% is defence and public order and security, 15.3% is education and science, 10.4% of economic affairs, i.e. incentives for economy, employment and agriculture. Furthermore, 3.8% of transfers to other levels of government, 3% of administrative costs, executive and legislative authorities, financial and external affairs. And finally 10.4% of other functions such as sport, culture, environmental protection, interest, etc. This structure clearly shows that the discretionary expenditure of the budget has been reduced to an absolute minimum, which is a continuation of government policy, a savings that has been consistently implemented since the beginning of 2009. The 2012 budget sets out social responsibility and covers all the necessary funds for the legal increase in wages and pensions, as well as all social benefits. The indexation will take place in April and October and the planned increase will be 5.5% year-on-year. The budget includes the effects of the reform processes that this government has done more than one previous in the context of the European integration process. These effects in the budget are most visible through judicial reform, pension system, military professionalisation, adequate resources for the work of independent institutions etc. The government's anti-crisis economic policy for the coming year also implies continuing the implementation of active measures to support the economy, agriculture and construction industry through investments in infrastructure, subsidies and favourable credit lines. Also, by rational use of public resources in the following year, we will achieve significant savings at discretionary expenditures and administration costs and thus contribute to improving the business environment. In line with this goal, the government does not plan to increase taxes or introduce any new burdens that would have a negative impact on the work of businesses in the coming year. As for the previous three years, we continue to encourage production investments where we have achieved excellent results in the previous period, and thanks to which Serbia takes a convincing first place in investment in the region. A combination of these measures, despite unfavourable conditions in the environment, will allow for an increase in exports and the creation of new jobs. I am convinced that only by investing in infrastructure, for development projects can we provide economic growth, maintaining employment and better life for Serbian citizens, and for the realisation of this goal we will engage all resources and energy in the coming year. Now allow me to refer in a few sentences to the other laws that have been given under this united debate and which will also show that they are connected to the budget, although we have heard of such opinions may not be general in this House. When it comes to the Law on the Budgetary System, the basic changes proposed, allow for the multi-annual budgeting of capital investments, which has not been the case so far. Then, the budgeting of deficits lower than the upper limit foreseen by the fiscal rule, which is precisely the case with this budget that will be discussed here and finally establish procedures for determining the financial effects of laws and other regulations. The most significant amendments to the Excise Act relate to tobacco processing and where the basis for calculating the minimum excise duty is determined on the basis of the average weighted retail price, instead of the most popular price that Serbia is harmonising with EU directives. It also reduces the ad valorence segment of excise duty from 35% to 34% in the following year, i.e. in 2013 to as much as 33%. Amendments to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance will allow families of entrepreneurs not to pay contributions on the basis of taxable profits achieved. It will also enable the determination of the level of the monthly base on which the mandatory social security contribution is calculated and paid for priests and religious servants in the sense that the minimum monthly base is multiplied by a coefficient ranging from one to five. The amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration allow the publication of a notice on taxpayers on the website of the Tax Administration. The delay in paying tax debt without providing security, for small amounts of debt, will be particularly appropriate for small and medium-sized enterprises. Then, the introduction of a higher degree of financial discipline, by allowing banks to pay their profits only at the same time as paying obligations based on taxes and contributions to compulsory social security for which special software will be provided to banks, while the responsibility for control will continue to be in the Tax Administration. Then, the relaxation of the conditions for the reprogramme and the write-off of the tax obligations especially in the bankruptcy and financial restructuring process and finally regulating the competence of local self-government units to conduct a second-degree procedure for all their sources of public income. The amendments to the Law on corporate income tax will allow tax relief to be made to non-profit organisations which are mainly made on the market. Next, the introduction of a tax incentive for users of free zones dealing with production activity in the free zone in the sense of reducing the tax on the profit of legal persons. And finally, neutral treatment for converting demand into capital of the company into restructuring. When it comes to the Law of Public Roads, here mentioned as a law that has nothing to do with the budget, the truth is actually quite different. This budget stipulates that excise duties that normally went directly towards the road company are now being transferred to the general budget of the Republic of Serbia, and then are being transferred from the budget to the road company, i.e. maintenance of roads, thus achieving the centralised principle so that we do not have so many users who have direct incomes that are out of control. Finally, the Traffic Safety Act defines the problem of temporary registrations for testing new vehicles. Namely, the current solution is that you cannot issue a temporary registration for more than 15 days, which is inappropriate when you test a new vehicle, as we will have a very quick situation for newly manufactured vehicles in the "Fiat" in Kragujevac to be tested and then their 15-day registration is insufficient. So I mentioned these other laws in a few sentences. I call on you to go through the budget in a constructive debate and finally, before we split up for the New Year, we vote for it, we adopt it and ensure the normal functioning of the state and economy in 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65130	Thank you, Mr. President. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives, of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65131	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister and representatives of the ministry, honourable MPs, the Budget Law is one of the most important acts brought by this assembly and therefore draws special attention to both Parliament and the general public. Our PUPS parliamentary group has looked closely at the 2012 draft budget, and I would like to put forward the views of our parliamentary group in this regard. We found this: the budget is made during the severe economic global crisis, also brought in during the euro zone crisis, we are under the circumstances of economic difficulties, the decline in industrial production, huge unemployment and insufficient GDP growth. On the other hand, we have undeveloped social dimensions of a state where there is not much solidarity and even less social justice. We already have over 1,700,000 pensioners, more than 700,000 unemployed persons and a large number of socially endangered households. There is no need to ignore the fact that in the next year, in 2012, we are facing elections at all levels. Under these circumstances, we should add that the state is on the verge of over-indebtedness. When we have all this in mind, then it is understandable why the government is late with the draft Budget Law and why compromises must be sought to meet the priorities in the adoption of this law. It should also be taken into account the need to negotiate with the IMF. Under these circumstances, the government has established the 2012 Budget Act and we are discussing it today. What are the basic characteristics of this proposal to us? First, there's a little money available, about 750 billion, and big needs, as you can see, are 890 billion. So we're going to spend more than we're making, and in that we're all complicated that it's not good. However, the PUPS parliamentary group has an understanding of such a proposal. Secondly, many users have seen a decrease compared to this year, which we think is positive. We highlight a special cost reduction with the President of the Republic, with the Government, the cabinet of Vice-President Dr Jovan Krkobovic, individual ministries. We think they're positive movements. We think it's not good, which has been reduced by the Ministry of Health and Social Policy. Thirdly, we point out that the draft budget has the characteristics of the development character with the intention of continuing key investment projects, some of which end, especially when it comes to the development and improvement of agriculture and the promotion of industrial production. These are key elements for the better tomorrow. That's why we think the budget and the development, no matter what, we have to agree with that, and it's not enough. Fourthly, we particularly appreciate and support the social character budget and respect the fact that many of those living below the social minimum are, above all, unemployed, socially endangered categories of citizens, children and a large number of pensioners. For these reasons, we believe that the Law on Budgets and Social Characters is. The PUPS parliamentary group particularly emphasises support for the budget to provide funds for regular pension payments under the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, which we adopted at the end of 2010. So our opinion is that in a different way, we need to regulate some issues when it comes to the pension and disability fund budget, especially for those funds that are not directly related to pension payments. I'll give you one example. Nearly 60 billion are directed into the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund, and these funds are automatically transferred to the Health Fund immediately. There are other examples like that. We don't think there's any particular reason for that kind of directional means. It should also be said that a significant number of military pensioners has been included in the PIO Fund since 1 January of the following year. In this context, commitments and funding for the payment of pensions from the PIO Fund are increased. All of this, according to us, guarantees that the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act will be applied as a whole and that in 2012 the rights of all millions and 700,000 pensioners will be respected. For all of these and probably others, the reasons behind the parliamentary group will firstly support the 2012 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia in general, support decisions on granting consent to the PIO Fund's financial plans, the Health Fund and the National Employment Service. We will also support other accompanying laws proposed to implement and implement the Budget Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65132	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65133	Presidents of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, should not be an economic expert to conclude that Serbia's economy is in catastrophic condition. There are economic and political reasons for that. When such a situation is even the budget can't be much better. According to finance ministry officials, it should be borne in mind that the largest part of the budget expenditure represents legal obligations relating to salaries, pensions, social contributions and government debt interest. When we talk about interest on government debt, it should be said that the expenditure on interest payments is 59.2 billion dinars. That's almost one whole AP Vojvodina budget. On the other hand, it should be seen that the repayment of the principal of these debts amounts to about one third of the budget. On the other hand, I quote representatives of the Ministry of Finance, reduced capital expenditures by 3.2 billion dinars and the Fiscal Council warns that public debt is at risk at the end of this year to cross the 45% of gross domestic products so that this could bring 55% of GDP closer. Economic experts warn that due to continued recession and disputed economic activity, inflows on the basis of some taxes are hampered in the draft budget. The growth of internal and external debt is a characteristic of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Taking into account the fact that it is alarming under the traffic of less than 17%, then we also know that we need to talk about the further growth of the grey economy and the strong decline in the living standards of the population of the Republic of Serbia. As far as income planned for value added tax is concerned, we should say that there is an estimated growth of as much as 6%. I don't know how much that is enough to make this happen, it takes growth of 1.5% of GDP projected, and if the projected growth doesn't reach the budget, it will become unsustainable. No savings are predicted on the bulky side to a sufficient extent, so the state will likely continue to be in debt. I said all of this, and most of these findings were quotes by either economic experts or the chairman of the Fiscal Council or the official of the Ministry of Finance. I have said all of this and quoted that we would find out what Serbia is in today's position, that is, what the draft budget is like. On the other hand, we must bear in mind that the aim of SVM has always been to support the draft budget. All these years, since the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been in effect, we have had problems financing the AP Vojvodina. First of all, we had a problem with the structure of the planned funds for the financing of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. the planned funds for capital investment in the territory of the province. All these years ago, we somehow managed to agree, most often with the acceptance of some amendments to SVM. It was only two years ago that we failed to agree after, in our deep conviction, that budget proposal was counter-constitutional and we voted against that budget. This year, it happened for the first time that we were allowed to discuss then another draft budget before the text was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It seems that only now have we managed to fight for a timely, timely discussion of the budget projection for next year. I am convinced that this has made a significant contribution to this draft budget in line with the Constitution on the position of the AP Vojvodina in this draft budget. I must say, I hope that it will not harm Mr. Nikezic, that we have great co-operation with him in these past few months and that these open talks have also contributed to this, that this budget be acceptable to us, as regards the position of Vojvodina in this text. At the same time, I should say that Vojvodina's previous years, since 2007, has been depriving here for certain funds. More specifically, there are no approximately 64 billion dinars available for Vojvodina for the past five years, how much minimum Vojvodina should receive under Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This means that from these funds, Vojvodina or Serbia could build about 60km of highway on the territory of Vojvodina. This means that of these funds that Vojvodina has tried to obtain under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 2007, up to today, it has been able to build around 20 buildings of the National Theatre in Subotica. This means that of these funds that Vojvodina was to receive under the Constitution, it could have built about 120 closed swimming pools on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. This means that the Constitution was respected from 2007 until 2012, each municipality in Vojvodina would today have 2.5 closed swimming pools. I think that this data is verifiable, that these data can be verified and that this is about the fact that Vojvodina's previous five years has been heavily robbed. That means the Constitution has been broken all these years ago. Why do I say the Constitution is broken? Because when it comes to budgeting, we talk about budget projections, I'm talking about the Republic's plans. At the end of the year or during the year, it is only possible to determine whether the budget projection was realistic or not. As I said earlier, in the past years except for one, the budget projection has always been such that Vojvodina was allowed to obtain those funds that the constitution minimum should receive, but eventually it turned out, that every year Vojvodina was robbed, as I said, for about 64 billion dinars, amounting to the one-year budget of the AP Vojvodina. At the same time, it should also be said that over the past 10-11 years, about 50 billion dinars have gone to KiM. Unlike the funds planned for Vojvodina, KIM funds have also been implemented to a large extent. I think that's one piece of information that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know. That is not different according to this draft budget either. Of course, I'm not just talking about the funds of the KIM Ministry, I'm talking about the total funds that have been allocated to KIM for the past 10-11 years. Of course, I do not dispute that the state has an obligation to finance certain Serbian institutions and national communities in KIM territory. These are all serious countries in the region, funding their countrymen in other territories, but this does not mean that about 50 billion dinars each year went to KIM in previous years. As I said earlier, the draft budget compared to Vojvodina corresponds to the constitutional minimum. It was one of the preconditions for us to vote for the 2012 draft budget. There was another precondition for it, and that precondition concerned agriculture. The spring was a protest by the Vojvodina farmers for not paying up to 100 hectares as planned. The paori, farmers were then promised to receive subsidies of up to 100 hectares for 2011 by the end of January 2012. This is foreseen by this draft budget, and it is very good that it is foreseen. It is also good that these subsidy items are provided for farmers for 2012. This should not and should not be different because the arbitrary cycle started for the next year in agriculture and it would be very unserious if the rules of the game changed during the game. For this reason, we are pleased that these subsidies are also planned for 2012. There are various data on the extent to which the agriculture ministry's budget has been increased for next year. There are also various data that the ministry's budget has been increased, i.e. that the budget has been increased by around 15 billion dinars. But we must say that the final sum will depend on how the incomes of the Ministry of Agriculture itself, which are planned at around 26 billion dinars, will be realised. Regardless of these details, it is certain that the Agrarian budget will not be less next year than it was in 2011. So, this precondition for our vote of the budget has been met. The third condition concerned funds for the work of the inter-academia mixed commission. I would like to remind you that an agreement was reached between the President of the Republic of Serbia and then the President of the Republic of Hungary on the establishment of an inter-academia commission of SANU and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in October 2000, with the aim of the two countries' academics to identify civilian victims in Vojvodina during and after the Second World War, since 1941-1948. The first session of the Serbian part of the inter-Academic commission was held on 23 March 2011, but the funds for work were very low. Now, thanks to the SVM amendment, which will be adopted, 10m dinars are foreseen for the inter-academia commission. These funds are not large compared to the Republic's budget. It is minor funds, if we look at the order of the size of the Republic budget, but at the same time they are very important, so that the inter-academia commission can work. I would like to remind you that the Republic of Hungary has already provided about 100,000 euros in this year for the work of Hungarian works and among the academic committees. That's how it's gonna be done in the next year. We are pleased that the government of the Republic of Serbia has also seen that this is an extremely important programme. I would like to remind you that our goal is to, after the end of the commission's work on determining civilian victims on a scientific basis, means that the work of that commission should be a joint declaration of guilty confession or of the historic reconciliation of the Serbian and Hungarian people. Those declarations should be adopted in the parliaments of Serbia and Hungary. I must also say that it is of paramount importance for us that the Republic of Serbia obtains the candidate status for full membership in the EU. The most basic prerequisite for this is for the government and parliament to function for the coming months, until the end of February, that is, until early March. Because we are forced to pass this exam that we did not pass on December 9th, we are also in early March, we want a chance for the government of the Republic of Serbia to do everything and to meet all the criteria that this candidacy could be realistic for the Republic of Serbia, or for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This would not be theoretically possible if we did not adopt the budget if we were in a situation or a state of temporary financing and in a situation which would mean the disbanding of parliament and calling for early parliamentary elections. For this reason, it is important for us that the government does its job, that conditions are created for this, and I hope that this possibility will be used by the Government and that it will meet all the criteria for obtaining EU membership, that the government will meet all those criteria that have long been clear to everyone in this country, and I hope that this trust will result in the serious work of the government and by receiving the candidacy in early March of next year. For all these exceptional reasons, we will support the 2012 draft budget. Once again, I want to underline that I hope that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do its part of the job and that it will not depend on us from the Government whether we win the candidacy or not. The criteria have long been clear in this country to everyone and I hope that they will work to meet these criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65134	Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 87. We'll do business today and after 1800 hours. Now I'm setting a break until 15.00 hours, a minute before, we'll start at 14.55.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65135	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our session in the afternoon. Otherwise, we are in the session where the right to say is given by MPs who are presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. Just to remind you that today, on the basis of Article 87(5), we will be working after 18.00 hours, and until the conclusion of a common principle and uniform search of the agenda point that is open and under way. National MP Slobodan Samardzic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65136	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman of the Assembly, we today need to discuss the budget, and this budget that we have received in the light of the draft law and in the light of the 1,000-page publication must not even be the subject of our debate as an exclusive subject. Our budget can only be interested in reality, the budget as a reason to discuss the creation of Serbia, the reality of a country that is territorially decreasing, which is economically falling apart from the inside and which is morally humiliating. So, we have one specific task and especially in line with the DSS Parliament Club and its decision not to attend the assembly sessions until the meeting on KIM is called. I can say that this is an exception precisely because it's an opportunity to say something to this country, so not only abstractally, but also about its government's policy and budget policy. The budget can be a good instrument and the government's most important instrument of action, it's quite certain and it's so in every country. However, if the government leads the bulk of its activities in a manipulative way, then the budget itself turns into a means of manipulation. That's the case with today's government, including this budget. I would remind you that every budget we have adopted in this House has broken the law in that it has not been passed within the legal period and that it has always been discussed after the deadline has been passed. This is the fourth budget this Assembly brings, and it's always been that way. As a rule, an emergency procedure has been used, as is the case now. So, in addition to these four discussions on the budget by emergency procedure and the overrun of the legal deadline, we've had five budget rebalances over the last three and a half years. Whenever it was necessary for the government to make a move that had to justify the change of budget, this manipulative method was always used, and we still have the same case today. The way it started, that's how it ends. Before I move on to some of the budget items, which best reflect the situation in the state of Serbia, I would briefly present some comparative indicators of the state's situation from the point of view of the budget and the macro-economic indicators in 2008 and 2011, i.e. today, given this projection of the 2012 budget. In fact, if we compare the figures, Serbia's public debt is 170% higher than the 2008 debt in 2011. Then, monthly debt service obligations at monthly level are higher in 2011 compared to the year 2008 by 490%. Then, the monthly deficit is higher in 2011 than in 2008 by 779%. They're increasing numbers. There are smaller numbers when we compare those two years. In fact, the average salary is lower, it is 80% in 2011 compared to 2008, and in absolute terms it seems far more dramatic. In addition, the total number of Serbian employees is somewhere at 88% compared to 2008. In absolute numbers, that's about 240,000 employees less. The only two more serious items, where values can be said to be about the same, are GDP, which is there somewhere in 2008, as well as inflation, which according to indicators at the end of 2011 is similar to the one that ruled in 2008. However, rightly this indication that GDP is almost identical tells us that social development and economic development have not been at all during this period. These are some comparative indicators and the frameworks of our budget debate. So when we put into such a parallel time frame, we can also evaluate these macro-economic parameters that the government has given in its 2012 budget projection. I remind you, there's 1.5% of GDP development. Then inflation is supposed to be about 4.5%, if I'm not wrong, and growth is 1.2% to 1.3%, productivity growth is 0.9%, etc. So these main parameters the government gave for the budget are positive. They're above zero. It is about income, the revenue side, and based on these projections, the budget that will reportedly account for 750 billion dinars of income and 800 and 85 billion dinars of expenditure, with a deficit of about 125 billion to 140 billion dinars. I'm sorry he's not the Prime Minister here, just to remind him of one thing, but whatever he's not here, I'll say it for the MPs and the public. When we had a debate on confidence in the government, on 17 December 2008, the debate passed, of course, in the dialogue and discussions on KIM, on the moment which was very dramatic for our southern province, but there was also a lot of talk about the government's economic policy. The topic of government economic policy was almost time-equal with this on Kosovo itself, as the government's economic policy led by the end of 2008 could in itself be sufficient reason to ask for the government's resignation. At that time, Mr. Cvetkovic, prime minister, came up with amazing figures, that, in fact, he planned 3% of GDP growth, single-digit inflation, employment growth for several hundred thousand jobs, etc. The budget, which was adopted a little later in this debate, had precisely these parameters and was seen very quickly, although it was also seen who was following the economic situation in the country and the world, that these were extremely unrealistic figures. Already in January, all the figures were revised, Serbia stagnated or, rather, returned for at least the first two years, it had a negative social growth rate, a negative employment rate, an inflation that was two figures, which calmed down in the last year, etc. I remind you of this for the simple reason that today's situation is almost identical. There's no difference. So there's a lot of brazenness here and it's obviously using numbers, so we've come from this random attitude and we've come up with these projections that I've briefly listed. Of course, when you look at reality, and that's actually a word, as I said at the beginning, that the budget always compares and conflicts with reality itself, it actually speaks quite differently and not only that it is different in a way that I would interpret, but many very serious factors in this country have given different estimates of this budget compared to the parameters I mentioned. So, growth of 1.5% of gross social product can hardly be said. Even two, three days ago, a statement was made that there could be half a percent higher, for the simple reason that no one can see that incomes will be such that such growth can be realised. So, at a time when in Serbia production falls and consumption also falls, it is impossible to predict the growth of gross social product. And that, among other things, was made very clear by the Fiscal Council when he said that in revenue we would remain at least 20 billion dinars at the beginning because all consumption indicators show that it was falling. Therefore, where will this social expenditure be made 1.5%? And, of course, consequently, all these other indicators must be as stagnant or negative as is the case with the growth of gross social product. The whole budget suffers from this kind of illusion, from one of these, so to speak the fog to which it is curved and it is quite disproportionate, not only because it is large and it is really hard to follow, but also because of the fact that it wants to be manipulated again by the public of Serbia. I'll only be a few things in a short while. When it comes to revenue, the budget has projected a growth in tax revenues by 3%. How realistic is it that tax revenues go up 3% in this situation when, as I said, consumption goes down and production goes down. It is, therefore, something that cannot be operated on as easily as the Government has operated on this budget, but must be set in a realistic way, but the government is no longer real and the government is no longer to have these, as I say, ideological and mystical projections that we are present with today. Then, a drop in customs revenues in the government's register is evident. According to this budget, this text, it is smaller by about 14.7% compared to 2011, i.e. the 2011 budget projection, for several reasons, of course. Otherwise, it amounts to around 500m euros in absolute amounts. So, the drop in customs revenues. The main element of the fall in customs revenues is the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, better put forward by the trade agreement, of that particular part of it. And here, in fact, we have, according to indicators that are official for both 2009 and 2010, clear costs that are new compared to previous costs, because just because Serbia is now in a position to, better said, a chance to slowly bring customs duties to import goods from the EU, these revenues are rapidly falling. For the past year, it was about 180m euros of lower customs revenues in the budget, but we also write off those 180m euros at the expense of our bright European integration and a brilliant future. In 2009, that fall was slightly smaller. In 2010, it was bigger, I said about 180m euros, and this year it seems to be even bigger since from year to year customs duties on industrial agricultural products imported from the EU are constantly decreasing. Today, we have somewhere below 3%, on average, customs duties on EU products, that is slightly higher for agricultural products, and smaller for industrial, almost zero, compared to the average rate of customs duty we have from other imported goods, from the rest of the world. That's about 8.5-9% on average. So, Serbia, for some foggy perspective, gives up about 180m to 200m euros without adequate compensation. I would remind you that the whole story of Serbia's candidacy, until a few months ago, was economically, financially explained by the fact that the candidate from pre-accession funds will earn about 300m to 400m euros. These were Djelic's estimates last year, up to about six months uninterrupted. We received around 190m euros each year, and then some new three items are being opened: first, agricultural production and rural development; then, Serbia's regional development and helping these human resources. We see today, even if we had won the candidacy on December 9th of last year, that we would get the EU from these pre-accession funds as much as we did last year. Why? Because their budget period expires by the end of 2012, and the money has as much as it has. Serbia will be granted 190m euros again. If you watch closely, it is about the same figure as the deficit we have based on the suspension of customs duties on imported goods from the EU under the trade agreement. In such a situation, believe every country, every government would take a pen and paper and start counting and since we simply don't have a certain EU membership until after 2020, so we should knock down these tariffs by zero by 2014. There, it's the government's policy, which, in a purely financial report, is completely devastating and negative. Money is crumbling over an ideological and political projection. There, therefore, we have, the Union's and the budget's obvious problems next year, and this is the direct consequence of how this government manages its economic policy, above all in relation to so-called. European integration and trade agreement which, of course, was not what it was in the 1990s for Central and Eastern European countries, because they did have some certainty of coming into membership status and subsequent compensation for losses resulting from the competitiveness of exports and imports. This is not what Serbia can expect and therefore such an examination is in place, but the government certainly does not think it is. Otherwise, when it comes to expenditures, there is the most interesting part about the deficit of about 125 billion to 140 billion euros depends on how it counts. In fact, expenditure can be clearly forecasted. But what's the problem with this budget is that some of these deficit elements are simply hiding. Serbia has its own payment obligations that it has not carried out in 2011 which will definitely be transferred to 2012, but this is not calculated into this expenditure part, i.e. In the deficit. If we take only the obligations that the central authorities have, then public and municipal enterprises, they move to about 100 billion dinars. They're nowhere to be found. Then, the health fund owes about 30 billion dinars, which is also not here. Therefore, and this side, therefore, this budget is extremely unrealistic, extremely impossible for the country as well. In fact, the state has the image of its government, of course, which is the most responsible here, has a certain way out under the allegations of this situation. It simply serves its deficit as much as it serves through loans. It's something that when you look at this budget in a very drastic way, it raises the question of not saying the country's financial stability but its survival as a healthy economy at all. You see, our public debt is three-quarters of our budget, approximately, and our liabilities on the interest we have to pay are about seven comas of nine to eight percent of the budget. And that's where we feel best, because that's just what we're going to do, and that deficit that I was talking about 125 or 140 billion dinars about, we're going to re-indemnify ourselves, and somehow we're going to pay it back in 2013, 2014. It is this irresponsible policy that acceleration of debt, cost and acceleration of evil, if you want for this economic situation that is constantly repeated and which actually says that while I am in power, everything is fine, and we will see what happens later. So, that's the biggest problem with this budget and these debts the country has. So it would be perfectly normal for us to draw some simple conclusion instead of what I said. Incomes are high, overrated. The expenditure is underestimated, the deficit is such that it cannot be paid out of real income and it is therefore pushed into another, third year, of course counting on loans. It doesn't count on privatisation or donations. So that's one circle, one string of circuits where we'll move as long as you're in power. In fact, Serbia has no opportunity to treat itself as hard as the government treats it and something understands has to be done, but it is no longer a matter of budget. The budget just shows that something has to be done to get this country out of its worst crisis in decades. At the same time, the state sector is growing, the administration is booming, the cost of growth, the pension fund is increasing, but the number of pensioners is growing at the same time that employees are falling, so there is no basis for filling these funds, but it is still projected as certain elements of the government require. So, quite briefly, if someone wants Serbia to no longer fail economically or to stop Serbia's economic collapse, if it wants to stop its territorial devastation and its moral humiliation, it will not vote for this budget this year and vice versa if the vote does not pay attention to these real indicators. The least he can do is not support this government, which is a winemaker of this desperate state, although it remains on and until the first elections, Serbia is not well written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65137	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65138	Dear Vice-Presidents, Ministers of Agriculture and Trade, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true, there can be a budgetary debate going on without the Prime Minister's personal presence in this House. I'm not saying it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But still, Mr. Petrovic, there is some elemental order. The budget is the most important law to be adopted in one calendar year. It is practically the last major law to propose to this Parliament and adopt Mr. Cvetkovic as Prime Minister and your government in this session. It's a plan to spend state, public, civil, whatever you want, at least in the first six months of next year, until a new government is formed after the upcoming elections. The constitution and the Rules of Procedure say 126 MPs must vote for the budget. It's not for no reason. Finally, the idea that the budget is such an act that citizens have the right to pay particular attention to its adoption, that MPs have a special obligation to do so, to be in parliament, to explain it, to defend it, is one of the basic flows of modern, parliamentary and every democracy. This fact that Mr. Cvetkovic is currently missing a lot of talk in parliament about seriousness and him as prime minister, but above all as DS leader, I do not only think of you as one of the most influential or influential vice presidents of the DS, but above all, the President of the Republic who actually directly decided that Mr. Cvetkovic would be Prime Minister from 2008 to 2012. I'm not talking about whether it was the first choice, simply because of a whole series of circumstances we were condemned to live under these four years, so to speak, by the political administration of Mr. Cvetkovic as head of executive authority. On the other hand, maybe it's not bad that you, even at the beginning of this afternoon's work, showed up here. Once again, as a very influential vice president and senior DS official, you may be much better able to answer some of the questions that interest the LDP but obviously other parliamentary groups. I don't know if you followed, Prime Minister Cvetkovic in his opening statement today almost at all, not to say he wasn't talking about politics at all. It is not common, his colleagues around the world, especially in the past three or four years, at the beginning of the first or second wave of crises, ahead of their parliaments, primarily come with political plans, as the state, as state institutions will finally face these negative consequences of the crisis. And when it needs to be saved, and when it needs to be tightened, it is now less diagnosed by all Western European societies, in which we have been diagnosed for at least 30 years, or 25 years as far as I can remember. Especially in these situations, first we need to hear what the political plan is. If not what is the political plan for this government that ends the mandate, then what is the political plan, above all DS as a party that obviously has the intention and ambition to participate in the next government. Especially in the situation, I was very careful to observe the latest presentation of President Tadic, the course and what was particularly launched in public after the last session of the DS Central Committee and it seemed to me that your basic intensity was, at least in the period until the elections, to develop the economy, to work on the economy. We have again heard these phrases that investments are and exports are our chance, and therefore I expected that in this budget, both in its interpretation and in its text, we can find a foothold for such political ambition. I especially expected that after I saw that the President of the Republic had practically devoted all his time or all of his activities to the economy, the economy, the opening of large plants. Two or three times a month, he just tours robots and halls in the Fiat. On every corridor and one that exists and one that has been invented in Serbia, such as Corridor 11, every little while the President of the Republic appears. Once with an organized press statement, sometimes reportedly surprised by the presence of journalists but always somehow a convenient opportunity to send some encouraging message to the public. Whether it's a message "don't touch me, Mr. Gristle" or it's a message that we're going to cross the whole country with a network of modern highways. Today, December 26th, as always, the prime minister also boasted that we will obviously end up working this year and this year as well as the government and parliament. We're facing this kind of budget proposal. In doing so, this is probably the only country in the world where the Prime Minister of a state publicly boasts that he is more than a month late with a budget proposal, so this represents a special pre-nuptial work effort and a reason for the great satisfaction of citizens, who, of course, in these few days will be condemned to see this hall again, these thousands of papers that are on the benches in this parliament. This force of numbers, which they absolutely do not understand and that then in front of this hall in a statement to the media, in a statement to reporters practically leaders of all parliamentary groups in this parliament, and especially the leaders of parliamentary groups still ruling, send a message to the public that the figures in this budget are not correct, that none of these projections will be realized, that citizens should only agree that we have to have some kind of budget and that this is a more technical solution. Mr. Petrovic, I'm afraid this is a technical solution. This is a budget that weighs nine billion euros. This is the budget that says that in the coming year, through different types of taxes, contributions, different other types of burdens that we suffer and as citizens, which suffers and the economy in our country will be delivered to the government, its budget, to the state's seven and a half billion euros, that we will have to get out of some loans from the sale of government records and bonds somehow another billion and a half euros, that we will be in debt in one way or another to four and a half billion euros in 2012. You'll say, probably as well as the Prime Minister, that doesn't mean that our total debt goes up by that much. They won't. Most of these bonds will be sold, we'll be in debt at interest rates of seven, seven, seven, twenty-five, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, and in order to serve old loans, and that doesn't have to be bad. That would be great, only if we could see what those loans from previous years have been spent in. Were we right when we said Serbia couldn't survive most by delivering 2.2 per year and 2.5 per year, so this year 2.8 billion euros, the money it doesn't have and is in debt for. Let's say the pension fund, which has not been reformed in the meantime, and nothing in it has been reformed. Will we in a similar way be able to be in charge of other almost imaginary political or quasi-economic projects in this country? The prime minister also praised the amazing fact. I think I've remembered or written down 48% of this expenditure side of this budget goes to different forms of social protection. That is not the reason or it is not an asset that the Prime Minister of any country, at the end of his four-year term, should boast. It's still one black statistic or black diagnosis of this society. And if that's the case, then we might as well hear what the plans are, at least for next year. Politically, first of all, let's partially fix this situation. Those answers must be political. They can't be economic, they can't be accounting. You can't walk around that thin edge most of the time, whether the deficit is 4.2, 4.25 or 4.5%. Whether different arithmetic achievements will hold a share of public debt in the gross social product at the 45% limit. Finally, what is the attitude of your government towards a fiscal council which is also, in some way, a state body, some kind of independent regulatory body, which it objectively needs to look at and tell the citizens of this country whether what the government is saying is when it designs basic economic or fiscal parameters. Look at this report in front of all the MPs. I believe everyone in the government has it. In each paragraph, the fiscal council tells you that none of what you stated in the draft of this budget is true. That at this point it is very likely that the share of public debt is more than 46%, that the adoption of the fiscal decentralisation law and all those regulations that followed, and without reforms of other budget segments and the state produced a very serious hole in this year's large national central budget. There's an absolutely amazing sentence in the reasoning of the law when you explain where you're going to find that difference to me from 40 billion, as we said half this year. The hole will be 40 or 43 billion at the beginning of 2012, i.e. for the fiscal year 2012, and there is a response that some of the 15 billion dinars will be charged from the bankruptcy of bankrupt companies. Are you really serious when you write a sentence like that in the budget? From what bankruptcy mass of companies? From the bankruptcy mass of those companies that, meanwhile, you take over major state-run losing public systems, and then they appear as sponsors of different sports, cultural and other events, all for pre-election purposes. The NBA championship started yesterday for this year. There's been a lot of negotiations, a lot of trouble, so it's in the market economy where the sports league is a company or a company, in the end they all agreed. The league's starting for Christmas, and everyone's gonna make a living. There are no problems in Serbia. A few days ago, the sponsor of the failed first basketball league became the company Agroziv, a company that took over a large holding company of Serbia's gas, whose director Dusan Bajatovic, an MP in this parliament, a company that is now in charge of over 600m euros, a company that without anyone's consent signs contracts for the next ten years for Russian gas imports under fixed conditions, a monopoly contract, without even having a decision of the government, and let's say this parliament for such a thing. In such a country, where 600 million euros, where 2.8 billion euros for a pension fund means nothing, then you can make whatever budget you want, say he was, what was yesterday's formulation? Socially with certain changes in development and investment. When you make a budget that has investment and development mechanisms in its tracks, then you can't expect that, not in the next five years, but in the next 50 years, this black picture that says that 48% of your budget cost goes to social protection and 15% more on defense. What's left for life in this country? What's left for culture, what's left for sport, what's left for education, what's left for health care? One third of the budget, which will eventually not even be reached by more than 80% or 85%. There is no political response to what this country will be in the coming year, or years to come. That is what the government, or DS, owes Serbian citizens. You also owe this because you are bound by these many budget proposals which speak about where we will be in charge or what guarantees we will issue next year. This shows which are the only political and then economic or most important key, the natural partners of Serbia who help us keep our heads above water in this age. One hundred million World Bank loans, 383m euros in European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, another 526m European Investment Bank, 115m euros in German Development Bank, etc. If these are our partners, I guess we must also cooperate politically with them and move towards them, first and foremost towards the EU next year, or you expect that it is really possible for Serbia to continue with its general state policy and that the money from these loans or some new loans continue to arrive in the coming years. Do you really believe that there is a situation like this in northern Kosovo, and that we are still one of the partners of the German Development Bank, from which we will draw loans of 2.5 or 3% a year, or we will be condemned very quickly to turn to that 800m dollar loan from the Russian Federation that we cannot yet realise or, as far as I can see, new loans that we are now taking from Azerbaijan and Uzbehistan, since you first invented Corridor 11 which does not exist on the European map of Corridor, in the meantime, began building 11km, and ended two and a half kilometers, if I understood President Tadic well when he visited the press opening of that big investment, and then you will finance it from Russian, from Turkish loans, from Kazakhstan's loans. I don't know if there will be any statues of some dictator deceased from some of those countries, as the Tasmajdan Park in downtown Belgrade has been adorning for months. If that's the price for such a Kosovo policy, say it honestly, but don't sell to the citizens once again fog or illusion, that it's possible to live even at this quality of life, with this kind of budget expenditure on wages, pensions, social protection, and nothing changes in our general, state, foreign, regional policy, however you wish. If we're talking about this 15% that goes to different parts of defense, then we're hardly going to be able to single out so little in the coming years, if you're still sticking to this concept of military neutrality, etc. You may find it strange, but I agree in part with what Mr Samardzic said. Of course, the LDP as an extremely pro-European party in Serbia is the fact that, for now, we are just paying the price of applying the SAA, which brings out a different political conclusion that our European integration must be renewed, must be faster. We need to gain candidate status as soon as possible and start negotiations in 2012 in order to start, as I would say, getting some sort of normal compensation for what we are losing today, say, on customs revenues by applying the SAA. What's happening today, this increasingly terrible symmetry in the costs we have, is the result of our mistakes. As a result, the SAA is not designed to apply to one country for 10, 15 or 20 years, but to apply it between three and five years, to enter into negotiations, to start opening chapters, to start pulling money from the EU structural and all other funds and thus compensate for the damage it has and to pay for the reforms it has to make. None of this exists in your draft budget, and none of it exists in these large and powerful statements that our political leaders, above all, are bombed by the public, by the president of your party, and by Serbian President Boris Tadic. Perhaps the topics held to join the presidential campaign in the second half of the following year, in some new coalitions, in some new stable conditions, in situations where it will not matter whether 127 or 135 MPs are here, when you may go through the creation of another type of coalition that will allow you to perhaps implement politics in a more successful way both Kosovo and Europe, by planning that there is probably no pro-European opposition in this parliament. The prime minister is somewhere in the break, which I managed to see in the media, said there would be no new borrowings. Please deny or confirm the Prime Minister's statement, because it is very important for the citizens of this country. At one point he said a really amazing thing to the Prime Minister, that the results, the consequences of the crisis, were somewhat better faced because serious reforms were launched in the meantime, and, among other things, the pension fund reform. Please answer me, to explain to me – what reforms are being implemented in the pension fund, unless you mean that reform is what you will do, after you have, in this great holiday, the state, pension fund, so to speak, in general, several years ago, drowned the money of funds that have, more or less, successfully done, self-employed activities, on the other hand, agriculture, now in that fund, in which there is no money, you are already making commitments towards military pensioners. It also increases those obligations that occurred in the previous year. You know that according to this segment, according to that population group, there are inherited obligations that have been very messyly served. Finally, the big issue of subsidies, the LDP has always insisted on it, for years we've been doing it, the situation is no better than it was in earlier years. Sixty-two billion subsidies totalling 130 million railways, several days ago you were robbed of railway equipment, several points, on the Belgrade track -- at least no trains were addressed. None of the great Russian help in that area. There is a single newspaper in it this year, otherwise the saddest segment of the budget covering subsidies, which are subsidies for Serbia's roads, is almost 90m euros. This is half the subsidies planned for the agriculture sector, which will amount to around 200m euros. You obviously belong to that school of opinions which says that the incentive, that is something to be included, but in the end you are facing that problem that the funds of incentives are not going to improve agriculture and production, but practically as some kind of social assistance threatened by agricultural households, but I have no doubt that my colleague Marija Bulgarcic will talk much more about it in the follow-up. Finally, perhaps the last question, apart from these political responses that we expect, is the question of what to do with the projection of the fiscal council, which says that the revenues at the end of next year, if this government of yours were to rule by the end of 2012, would be less than 350m euros than this projection. If that's true, where you'll find the money that's missing to service this social budget with the interference of development elements.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65139	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65140	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it is no doubt that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has found itself facing another significant challenge in terms of new hints of the devastating effects of the global crisis and, as a rule, of the maximum demands of the budget user, to design economic policy through the realistically possible budget, with the best answers in 2012. On the occasion of the 2012 draft budget from different angles, it is certainly possible to create some different solutions from the proposed ones and of course, the opposition MPs have already done so and we see some different solutions in this regard. In particular, we have proposed an amendment concerning the division of the Deputy Prime Minister with the idea that we further allocate the resources needed to develop young and talented students, as well as to speed up student standards. However, I believe that, despite all this, we must have one positive attitude and approach and say that this 2012 budget proposal is an expression of the reality of the Serbian economy, faced with problems affecting budget filling and that it is necessary to adopt as such, because it will represent the subject of the stability of public finances and economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. In this context, it is necessary to bear in mind that over 75% of the total expenditure of this budget has been defined by the laws and that this proposal has been defined by the level of fiscal deficit, the legal obligations of the state in terms of salaries, pensions, social segregation and others, and public debt service obligations. What the SPS-JS Parliament Club particularly appreciates, which we pointed out in the debate when there was a rebalancing speech, is that this proposal for the 2012 budget is in line with the fiscal rules, because the budget deficit at a consolidated level of 150 billion is moving within 4.25% of GDP, which is below the intended maximum fiscal rules, a certain reserve was left, predicting possible outcome effects of up to 4.5%, and then the harmonisation of salaries and pensions will take place according to the envisaged formula in accordance with fiscal rules, twice a year, in April and October of the month, and all of this is agreed with the IMF, which is one need for the credibility of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. We appreciate that this is the reason for support, because the budget that is in line with the fiscal rules, which we have provided for by the Budgetary System Act, is certainly a guarantee of the stability of public finances. The second thing, with this draft budget, some criticise it, and we think it's a government obligation and it's a good thing that this budget provides for around 280 billion dinars, which will practically ensure regular and smooth pension payments to all pensioners who have acquired that right. It's a government obligation, not a corporate obligation, not a private company, not a state-owned enterprise, not anyone else, but a state. I think this is a clear message from this draft budget. On the other hand, as regards the separation for social protection, when it comes to childcare, combat and disability protection, student and student standards, refugees and displaced persons, the funds envisioned by this budget plan offer approximately the same level of social isolation as in the 2011 budget, and will certainly be sufficient in that sense to meet all needs of the most socially vulnerable people. However, it certainly does not need to be satisfied. We believe that further efforts should be made in the coming period to allocate additional resources and that is certainly another important task of the state. On the other hand, we appreciate that the most serious need to take the warnings of the fiscal council and the professional public, analyse and prepare measures to maintain public debt within the legal framework of 45% of the gross social product, which means that public spending needs to be harmonised with the emerging situation under the conditions of an uncertain economic environment, especially in the country, our most significant partners from the EU and the world. In this regard, it is encouraging to say that the expected level of capital investment is 4%, which is a pandan to the deficit and thus can be said practically that all fiscal deficits go into capital investments and that the rest of the income and expenditure is in some kind of balance. We also consider MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia – Unique Serbia will always support such a possibility and such a type of borrowing and financing of capital investments that represent the possibility of leaving certain goods to future generations, on the other hand being a potential source of new jobs. In addition, the current global crisis has shown that there is not one uniform solution and that all countries have taken specific measures for their situation and their environment and that a certain type and dose of state interventionism is needed. In that sense, we really consider this kind of budget deficit to be good. Of course, we also consider that this budget provides for a reduction in the costs of the administration from 3.7% to 3% and that is, let me say, some introduction to future creation and behavior when it comes to the budget. Of course, in this whole concept, I think and we think that this government, and also some future government, must certainly approach one type of tax policy reform, or tax reform, seriously. At the very beginning, I think it is good and we can certainly support a reduction in the tax burden of labour, and on the other hand, a possible compensation of these revenues, it is certainly possible to provide additional, more progressive taxation of luxury consumption, which is used by enormously rich layers of inhabitants. Of course, what we have repeatedly as MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia – the Unique Serbia, we believe that perhaps if there is not enough political hearing for a more radical tax reform that the tax administration must definitely experience one tax reform in terms of more significant financial and material support and we think that in this sense it is fully time to make a significant step there. The new tax policy, in addition to the purely fiscal objective of raising sufficient resources for the state to function, I think that it is necessary to define certain social objectives and that such a single tax policy in these conditions of economic crisis can reduce differences in the material situation of taxpayers, above all, by achieving a redistributive function through the income tax of citizens, synthetic property tax, inheritance tax and gift tax, whose rates should certainly be progressive and more affected by taxpayers, whose base is higher. Therefore, more severe taxation of luxury consumption, the exemption from small-value property tax, the release of a existential minimum for dependent household members and the like should be considered. Of course, I also believe that future tax reform should also respect the possibility of achieving democratic goals because the Republic of Serbia has been facing a frightening low birth rate since the mid-80s, and this is certainly a state problem, and the state must take part in the cost of childbearing, their maintenance and education. In that sense, certain solutions are known, such as tax relief with a number of children, the introduction of a bachelor tax, as we had in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, France and Romania. Of course, all of this is possible, these extrafiscal targets, to implement that basic goal of fiscal, raising sufficient resources. We appreciate that such a proposal for future tax policy is good and that in this sense and in this concept it will appear on the scene of the Republic of Serbia, in legislation, of course, depends on some of the results of the future elections. We think most citizens will recognize this proposal and this tax policy as good for themselves. I would like to say that we support the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance will, in a special way, be governed by the basis of the contributions and the way in which the accounting, determination and payment of contributions for compulsory social insurance to entrepreneurs who use leave due to maternity leave, therefore to maternity leave, and continue their work through an authorised entrepreneur. To be attached to the previous discussion and the proposal of our parliamentary club, in that sense we also proposed a solution like this about half a year ago and it seems to me that dear colleague Milisav Petronijevic was deliberately defending a solution like this, but at that point it did not come to support. I think we've lost valuable time. With this in mind, I think tax reform needs to be more courageous and bolder to enter because it gives its effects with a certain period of time of a year and therefore does not need to waste valuable time. Contribution to a general environment of reported financing from the Republic of Serbia will contribute to a certain solution offered in the budget in terms of increasing the amount of funding for the DRI and the Fiscal Council. To remind you, 270 million dinars were scheduled for the DRI last year, and these 440, and for the Fiscal Council from 25 million dinars to 48 million dinars. Certainly, the government's intention is obvious, that in this way, through the strengthening of these institutions, transparency and security of public finances are contributed to the spending of each dinar in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I believe that this should seriously take into account and solutions that will be useful for all future governments in terms of the concept of the programming budget instead of the line budget, the programme budget that will be focused primarily on the measurement of results and the good part to eliminate and eliminate the lack of a line budget in which there are great discretionary opportunities for spending. What does that mean? In particular, someone with a 200 million dinar plan spends that much. It is thought that he may be successful because he spent a dedicated dinar, but the question is what is the result and what is the improvement made by spending these planned funds in the budget. I also want to point out, and I think it is good that the planned budget for 2012, when it comes to the MUP, is slightly increased, by some three billion dinars above all, because this year a negative trend in the reduction of the participation of the MUP in the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia, which, for example, was 9.5% in 2002 and around 6% in 2011. What's important is to say, for all this time, the MUP has been getting out of new responsibilities in terms of full security of the state border and certainly new responsibilities arising from the law in emergency situations, emergency management, anti-urban protection and so on. On the other hand, police officers were the only ones in the state who had no right to overtime, work during the national holiday, night work, shift work and others, which will certainly not be the case since 2012. In addition, members of the MUP were thriftful, patient, responsible for their work, sometimes putting their health and their lives at risk. Of course, citizens certainly recognize this and I think that Serbia needs non-selective justice and that the MUP, under the leadership of Minister Dacic, is carrying it out consistently in this term. Just like JP "Srbigas", when it comes to Agroziv company, which is mentioned here, I would like to say that it is a company that has increased its capacities by almost 100% in a year, that 1,200 employees regularly receive their salaries, warm meals, travel expenses, and that at this time, "Agroziva" can confirm that both trade unions that exist in this collective express maximum and full support for the new management, which has managed to win the CEFTA market and that at this point, "Agrosiv" is a complete leader in Serbia when it comes to livestock and animal products. Of course management as a socially responsible company recognized the possibility that and part of what it owns, shared with society and state-owned Serbia. He's invested to invest some of the money in sports. I think it's a really marketing move, because basketball is a brand in the Republic of Serbia. It's a good thing two leading leaders are working together in their own brands. I don't see anything wrong. I repeat once again, Agroliv has increased his capacities, good for good, and regular payments. On the other hand, absolute progress. As regards the other draft laws on the agenda of these united discussions, the SPS – JS will in principle support all these proposals. My colleagues will explain more extensively in the course of the debate. Once again, I would like to point out that the SPS – JS Parliament Club will support, above all, the 2012 Budget Act, because we consider it necessary, realistic and good for the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65141	It was used 18 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65142	Dear colleagues, the chairman, Mr Cvetkovic, I think you have had the shortest budget statement in the history of the Serbian state, the newer and older. You only spent a few sentences on a budget comment and nine laws that we should mention or explain in a united debate. There are two -- three things I will never get used to, regardless of the years, tolerance, patience that a man gets over the years, and one of these is to get a last-minute budget and from six points of the agenda, turn the agenda into plus 11 and of that nine with a budget that has 981 pages. It's not an accident. You think that some things will remain unseen, unsuspecting, and at least I expected you to say that – why are you corrupting the Budgetary System Act, which is you as the Finance Ministry and for a serious state, a small constitution by which the budget is passed, because it is not only valid for one year, but for all future budgets, and that we will discuss here, that the Law on the Budgetary System is also very consistent and consistently broken in the way that public finances are being broken and run in the state of Serbia. Budget is the law that's most important. Each individual law touches an area of life – health, traffic, education, and this area of life. Every single one. We cannot accept that you, on the budget or on the part that treats the Budgetary System Act, highlight only good things, and that those who are not, not good enough, but bad enough and reason for amending the law, are silent, not mentioning them, as if they do not exist. Because I have a little time, because my colleagues are going to talk about the principle, and I'm going to actually start with the Budget System Act, where for years you've been refusing to keep all the users of public funds, that is, everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia forms as an agency, an authority of the administration, any body that is called, no matter where they are called, you haven't used your legal right to keep them in a consolidated vault account, to take care of where their money is, where they invest it. Three years ago, when you were talking about amending and supplementing the Bill on the Budget System, first, making a new and then changing, you had just adopted as one legislative decree that the minister was making that list, and then you broke out of hand to the minister and said that he was going to work with some authority that deals with statistical affairs. Why? You are trying to convince Serbian citizens at the end of 2011 that some of the revenues that some of the regulatory bodies have, and they are huge, are not by the nature of the state's income stuff. You cannot change the methodology or twist words that suit you, and everything is always at the expense of the citizens of Serbia. One example of this is that today is not under the control of the state of huge money being taken to the Directorate of Civil Aviation and the Agency for Flight Control, and for the collection of what is called – a fee for overflying Serbia. Unfortunately, in the era of civilization, my Mrs. Comic, everything is often quoted lately, I hope she will not be ill, she says – ever since there is an Internet, everything we do is public. Unfortunately, in 2003, when you brought budget rebalances, due to the adoption and establishment of a key for financing the federal state with Montenegro, you said nicely that in that division of bodies and organisations at the common level, the number was reduced from 56 to 23, from which they crossed into Serbia – management, customs, Deposit Insurance Agency, recovery and bankruptcy, that is what now provides deposits and allegedly saves and spends more than a living bank, and spends the deposit of those four shut-down banks, the Securities Commission, the financial market, the Institute for Plant and Animal Resources, the Museum of History of Serbia-Montenegro, while in the next month and a half will form the Directorate for Civil Aviation and the Aviation Control Agency. One piece of information that negates all those who say the measurable number of those who have moved from the federal to the republican new one, which says- over 4,800 employees have passed from federal to Serbian level in this transfer. There's no way to explain the number from seven to 28, now over 30, by supplementing it from federal authorities. I purposely mention the 2003 budget, because the fee for using the airspace measured by millions of euros today is outside the budget and it was by the nature of things state income. Then, in 2003, you said nicely and clearly how to cover the budget deficit, precisely – donations of 14.9 billion, revenues from privatisation of 12.5, loans from international institutions 12 and domestic debt so much and so much. Instead of over time improving our way of obtaining funds, their records, spending reports, you constantly corrupt those laws, you allow money to flow out of the budget, so when they spend it and don't have those sources anymore, they return to our budget, as the Privatisation Agency. What newspaper is now being made in this Budgetary System Act, and past the request of the Fiscal Council, which wanted only to know the upper limit of debt and some technical, say, characteristics related to the domestic behaviour of the state? You're the new Budgetary System Act, and I'm just going to quote that member to let the citizens hear what you're doing, Article 18. The proposal increased the government's discretionary right to increase the current budget reserve from 1.5% to 2%, which is determined by the total revenue and receipt of non-financial assets for the financial year. What is it about selling non-financial assets, incomes and sales receipts? Printing, i.e. bond emissions. You're stimulating the government itself, yourself, to broadcast as much as possible. You are now forced to cover the Passive, from the time of Makijaveli to the present tried system, by lending you refinance the loan, and you are increasing your right to increase what you don't account for from 1.5% to 2%, measuring that percentage compared to receiving non-financial assets for the financial year. So what you get by broadcasting securities out of value is the basis for you to spend and don't account to anyone. Since the Budgetary System Act also knows a permanent reserve, but it is defined at 0.5%, it has defined purposes, so it is said - earthquakes, emergency events, rinks, snow applications, animal and plant diseases, etc., you are obliged to submit a report to the Assembly. This is a limitation of discretionary spending rights for you, which is why you did not resort to the requirement to increase this reserve through the Budgetary System Act, but this other one, because you were not few, was not enough for you to invest in the year of the election of money as you think you should through your own incomes. So, this power from 2004 to today, instead of continuously improving reports, centralizing accounts, it only in 2012 accepted the remark that foreign exchange accounts of users, indirect and direct, budgetary waters of the National Bank and that you have insight. You're leaving an exception again. Your exceptions to spending, not showing spending, have turned into a rule. If it weren't for the State Audit Institutions, they would never have learned much about how you have bad citizens' money. If it hadn't been for the Fiscal Council, who was honorably defending his name and role this time, bringing in one analysis of your 2012 budget, we would have really wondered if we were living in the Middle Ages? Since you analyzed the rebalancing, which you adopted in December, you missed out on it and not looking at it, this time they felt responsible and gave us an explanation that this government, what we all know, in fact its entire budget must be spent on legal obligations and on what has already been taken into account at the expense of debt, capital, domestic and foreign interest. But it's always left for you. When I say about you and your specialized and special services, it is always found, and so it is for the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, that through specialized services, regardless of your savings, you say – a thrifty budget, respects the crisis, respects the low estimates of gross social product, has been found, richly, and that Agency for Economic Registers 210 million dinars, and you have told us in the law that you voted today that the agency does not need money. Where is your credibility and how do you trust even this information? There's now a nice foreign investment agency, and there's a regular 508,190,480 dinars. What are the effects of diplomacy on the economic and export promotion agencies, performing at fairs, we haven't gotten that yet. It may sometimes be the health of God, who is experiencing it, but it has always been found, for subsidies to private financial institutions -- billions and 500 million and subsidies to private enterprises, where the funds from this appraisal are, and it is 10 billion 450 million, intended for investment of special importance for the Fiat and other. How much longer for "Fiat" and how much more for "Fiat"? When will the effects of the Fiat begin to come? Did the budget in which we all know that you have undervalued expenditures, and overrated revenues, the budget in which you are the first, and therefore I appreciate your appearance as finance minister, admit that the previous minister did not show debt to the Republic Health Insurance Service, then there were some, I think, 23 billion dinars, so the surplus turned into a deficit, and today you're doing the same thing yourself? The Fiscal Council accuses you of not showing all the obligations you have. Do not tell me later – you have opened many topics and principles, 981 pages have so many topics. You do not show all the obligations of the state as you should, as we asked you to do in 2009 the Budgetary System Act. There is no such methodology and these lines under which you can hide what has to be a budget, and it must be a comprehensive plan of income and income achieved on the basis of the sale of financial assets, everything that you broadcast as charters, borrowing and expenditure plan and expenditure on obtaining non-financial assets, financial assets and repayments of loans, because the budget is a basic document of the government's economic policy. It's not worth putting the lines below or in the middle of the budget, because when the interest comes and the devil comes for his own, then we enter the red zone and we say, I'm taking the chance that you're here and I hope that you'll answer me with a rebalance for 2011, in which we're still in place, Mr. Cvetkovic, you and your experts predicted that the interest on the side of the loans will be 14 billion dinars. By rebalancing, you realized that you needed another six billion, which means 50% of the interest payments on foreign loans. There's not one word and a line of reasoning in this rebalancing. Euribor didn't jump. Some secret loan, which you urgently and immediately had to pay interest, I don't know it existed, because usually everything goes with a grace period while this government is going on or at least taking a break for the next coalition capacity and some combination that you're used to doing. Payments based on activated guarantees are projected to be seven billion, and the rebalance is two billion less, but that's why this year you're planning 11 billion to pay off by guarantees, where you question the basic definitions of the instruments known to you by the weekend. On the subject of the Fiat, you act as the first debtor of that guarantee, not as an avalanche, not as a emancipator, not as someone who will if you don't pay the first debtor. You say "Fiat" and many public enterprises – we have to pay because they are non-profitable. Do you really expect the citizens of silence to continue to finance this budget, in which what is the cancer -- the early of this society, which is too fast borrowing in the last three years, an untraceable, poor assessment of the interest on these loans that are advertised here as the most favourable, without assessing the effects of investment, to call this rebalancing a developmental, social, thrifty, rebalance in which you predicted to buy a plane, a building for the Anti-Corruption Agency, which serves you to account for opposition parties. That's where the URS came in guilty and indebted. You need to buy a building for the First Basic Court and do it so you can buy and build another 50% squares more and you think it can take an unlimited amount of time. That's why you said it in these 20 minutes, to say as little as possible. What's the big deal? You have not forgotten to delete from this budget the fact that some item 481 implies paying out to political parties when holding parliamentary clubs. It's a shame. You have humiliated the Assembly so much as an institution and MPs, everything, that it has been difficult for you to delete a sentence that has no basis, because in this Assembly there is no compensation for a warm meal, not a daily meal for MPs, but it takes years, and they are not paid to maintain parliamentary clubs. Why does it say that in the material? So, it's a little something. Yes, let them spit on you, you look like consumers, and we, ministers, can, not all, but that's why you can estimate your own income, for example, in the Ministry of Agriculture, so that a man grabs his head and says, with five billion people now earning 15 billion of their own incomes. From where? I ask by amendment that you separate these own revenues from the dedicated ones, which the DRI asked you two years ago, so that it could track and obtain these own funds and spend them, as well as the dedicated funds, because with all due respect to colleague Diana Dragutinović, who here as a woman could hardly fight all of the coalition interests, but she could do well to say that two billion dinars are out of control of the budget, thinking in one large part and these own incomes that are not so well displayed, and you are lame and silent, but also that huge part, such as the Flight Control Agency and many of those 136 agencies that are outside of your consolidated vault account and which maintain liquidity to business banks, of which an unequal budget takes credit, or your own money by borrowing from business banks. What's the most interesting? We're all fighting for banks to work with the economy, and in fact, you're still pushing for the release of income, profit from interest to those who trade with these securities of value that you're issuing, and you're saying that you're neither for production nor for growth or re-industry, nor for development. You are for financial manipulations in which the misery of citizens and businesses is the basis for the luxury of this government. That's why this budget can't get a single plus, let alone a transitional grade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65143	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65144	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Cvetkovic, we in the URS see this as a purely technical budget. I don't think it's worth much to spend words on, because it's clear to those who don't understand public finances, when they look at the items of this budget, that this government has to do rebalancing right away and that this budget wasn't made for the whole of 2012, it's designed to make it possible to pay off pensions, salaries in education, health care and other things in the first months of the following year. It is unserious to give a serious analysis of this budget, because there are so many disadvantages that there is no point in even criticising it, but I want to take this opportunity to point out to my fellow Members that it seems to me, in the Ministry of Finance, which is the proposing of this budget on behalf of the Government, there is no clear idea and awareness of what should actually be done in our country when it comes to public finances, so that we do not constantly have such discussions about the budget. It is not clear to me that, a while ago, fiscal rules were proposed at all, when they were already violated by this budget law, because it does not matter whether public debt is 44 or 46% of GDP now, it will fatten 50% of GDP with this budget next year. It is clear and already seen how the 140 billion-billion-republic deficit, or 150, will be financed, and some billions of consolidated, rather than borrowing. It's perfectly clear and there's no dilemma that it's so only possible to happen. No donations, no privatisation revenues under crisis conditions. So one borrowing can be, and there is no proposal for a measure that follows this budget, which would lead to a plan to make it back into those frameworks, if these frameworks are ever well set up. I don't know if the government should have proposed that the level of public debt and borders be 45% of GDP, when even that old mastic criterion is 60% of GDP, when one Germany has a public debt of over 80% of GDP, without talking about those countries that have now entered the debt crisis, such as Italy, which has over 120% of GDP. I know the idea was that a small country like Serbia has a higher degree of caution, but the whole goal is unreal and now it's seen, quite certainly, exceeded. However, it is not the biggest problem, because here, apart from covering the budget deficit, guarantees are expected to be issued up to 318 billion dinars, and guarantees can also become, sooner or later, public debt, so it is very difficult to estimate how much public debt will exceed 50%, but 50 will safely be over by the end of next year. What worries is there's no idea how to stop this, how to put public finances on healthy feet. In fact, Serbia has a huge problem that has an excessive and complicated public income administration. According to an analysis by international institutions, Serbia is 177 in the world, out of 185 countries, according to how complicated the tax administration is. In Serbia, taxes are paid 66 times a year, and in Sweden, for example, only twice. It is not surprising, then, that one of the very unique proposals of the Tax Procedure Act of the Tax Administration, that the tax administration, which should control whether companies pay taxes and contributions, proposes itself to dissipate that job and transfer that job to business banks. We've been given here a bill of law that is completely inconclusive. I don't know about the example, and I'd like to say in which country it exists, that business banks control tax payments. They'd be a tax authority, and they wouldn't be business banks if they did. It's the state's business. However, our country has a bureaucratic tax administration that charges not only basic tax forms, but also numerous and growing every year quasi fiscal forms and therefore clearly does not have time to deal with its business or does not have a good organisation. What's the problem? The problem is that every year Serbia gets dozens of quasi fiscal burdens. What needs to be done in Serbia, not to change the Law on the Budget System in this way as the current finance minister and prime minister suggested, but to ban the Law on the Budget System from any other ministry, other than the finance minister, could introduce any tax impose. It should be prohibited for the Ministry of Agriculture to introduce fees for forests, for water; for the Ministry of Ecology to introduce environmental fees, for any ministry to introduce fees and charges. This must be the sole jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, and then the Law on the financing of local self-government should be amended, in that part which allows for the introduction of an unlimited number of taxis to cities and municipalities and prohibit some of the forms, e.g. Company. Now that the URS's proposal to make profit tax is one of the basic incomes of local self-government, the company should be abolished completely or at least for small and medium-sized enterprises. There's no need for that to exist in the Law on Local Taxes. The big question is whether the important source of local income should be land use fees. A completely different logic needs to be adopted. Not to charge charges for use, but to not use land, because the problem is that there is a lot of land that is not used, and it could be useful to use either for agricultural production, whether for construction, and it is not paid any compensation, and it pays compensation to those who do, to those who do not work, they do not pay any tax. And can local self-government through property tax possibly compensate for the loss of this fee. What do the URS think should do? The number of fiscal forms should be reduced to a minimum, to a minimum. You know what basic forms are. It's VAT, it's excises, it's tax and income tax, property tax, customs, profit tax, and less are key forms. All these fees should be lifted in the latest laws of the resolution ministries, as Serbia's total burden on such quasi fiscal burdens is now a billion and a half euros. According to the analysis made by the experts. There is a good potential source for reducing the burden of the economy plus the red tape in the tax administration. So, less tax forms, easier control and, of course, less imposing on the economy. Here is the problem of the current and budget, and the tax system that has been done in principle – it holds water, while the masters leave, because it is clear that it is unsustainable that forest fees are not used for restoring forest resources or water compensation will not be used to irrigate the construction of the dam, but to pay off debts for subsidies. So this is a unique law where the fees of various kinds that represent their own incomes are put into service of payment of subsidies. It's not transparent and there's Jorgenka right, I have to say it. So what she said rightly, it's not transparent to try to mask that the agriculture budget is still below 2.5% of the total budget, and the time I ran the finance ministry was 5%, so that's possible. It was 2005, in 2006 5% of the agricultural budget was allocated, and this is now below 2.5%. The only good thing about this budget is that local self-government will have more money than before, there will be 34 billion dinars more than this year, and four billion dinars of larger transfers, 30 billion more based on income from profit tax. But if we want to stop approaching bad scenarios like Greece, really the new government is going to have to do a full tax reform as its first step, to rebalance this budget, because without it we're going towards the collapse of the system. So this is what I'm saying most seriously, because it's not a simple situation, and it seems to me that the Prime Minister is giving his exposure easily. It does not warn of risks that all serious economists see, I do not think it is responsible for either MPs or citizens. Of course, in order for all this to be done, knowledge and serious will are needed. So it's not easy to tell the Minister of Agriculture you can't have forest and water fees in your division anymore, but you'll get money directly from the budget, transparent for irrigation and for forests through some other form, directly from the budget, but you won't have that income. Why? Because when ministries in coalition governments, and all governments were and will be coalitions in Serbia, when the ministries have no chance of anyone but the finance ministry. Many ministries that make up the government see it only when something starts to apply and it's bad. I even think the question is whether MPs can see all this because in 2003 there were about 120 different forms in Serbia. When I left the Ministry of Finance in 2006, it decreased significantly, and now in the last five years it is returning to a similar number as we found in 2003. Not to mention that the public debt in 2000 was 160% of GDP, that it was downed in 2006 and 2007 to only 30%, and now it has reached this 45% limit and is certainly going to over 50%. I think it's fairer to say they're not well-measured written rules and set fiscal rules that are real, and then have a lot of binding measures that won't allow them to break but go consciously to break a fiscal rule and say they won't break. The rule isn't the rule if it breaks. Many problems in our country exist because there is no order and because rules can be broken. I won't, at all, use the classic 20 minutes for my discussion. Once again, we vote on the budget for reasons to help pensioners have pensions until the election, that teachers have salaries, doctors should also not be considered as definitive he will change, the new government will change it. However, I would ask the government to consider withdrawing this experimental part of the tax code and tax administration. Instead of getting the tax authority here, he can control the so-called. The grey and black economy, because you know that today the tax administration controls only registered companies, and there is no authority to enter those that are not registered. The market inspection controls it. With a few hundred people she cannot control in 170 Serbian cities all possible businesses. Therefore, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration should be changed, but it should be changed in the direction that powers of the Tax Administration should also be exercised to control the black economy, not just to go to legal enterprises. Then we have unfair competition, and we should completely give up the order for banks to do something that is not their natural role, to be a tax authority. Plus what the law is written so that it cannot be interpreted clearly, it will not be applicable, possibly not bad that the government said it would apply from June 1st. And what will we have until then? We'll have a technical government. What if there's a blockage of the system? What if it doesn't work? Who's going to intervene here? The technical government and its motive. So my proposal is either to withdraw the whole part or at least to move formally on 1 January 2013, so that the new government will change the law completely and never enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65145	14 minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65146	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are confused today with the discussions we hear from the ruling coalition at a time when we need to pass one of the key laws for this year, and that's the 2012 budget law. We don't know anymore, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, who's in your hair and who's in the water? Who's Sjojic, and who's Cira, the Cirko? Now we've figured out who Sjojic is, and now we've figured out who Cira is here and what's happening right now. Please, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, get serious. You came here today to criticize each other and to get to the prime minister's face what was wrong, and that budget you've been doing together for two months and arguing about him, and we from the opposition have told you what's wrong. You refused, and you said you had consent, and you all kept quiet, and you all voted well, you brought everything, you covered everything, all in gloves to exercise power, and then of course, you started a story that doesn't look like anything. Who's with the opposition and what's your position? Who's next to the prime minister, who's against the prime minister? Are you all in government responsible for the work you're doing or someone is responsible, and someone isn't. Those who run away from responsibility now, they spent the most money from the last budget. Now you need to sit down and negotiate for next year, although this budget will not mean much, as one in the ruling coalition of speakers has said, we expect a quick rebalancing. So, you're going to bring the budget, the election budget, that this little church we've got to spend until the election, and then where that dear of mine is, and you're making a rebalancing if you think you're going to survive, I understand that. Maybe I'm wrong. But this is your election budget, and you can see that clearly. This is an extremely unserious budget for a serious state. Imagine, with the budget in the Budget Law, you put nine more points on the agenda that no one here has mentioned. None of these nine laws that monitor the budget and which are very important for Serbia are mentioned. The prime minister held one of his exposés, which lasted one four, five, minutes and thousands of sides from the budget, in a few minutes. He looked back at some things and quietly retreated. Now the debate has begun. We agree there's no money to invest, that's what you're suggesting here. But you also can't spend what you have like this. How? What about social security? What about the investments? You're citing some investments here so, and last year you were talking about the Belgrade-Cacchak highway as some 10km of big investment you didn't even start, and here you are now announcing in this budget, it's a huge job. Well, you're going to do the little work, so skip the overpass, the underpass, and then the tunnel, and then somewhere else, you'll screw up a little bit with those blue helmets, and you'll show up, and then you'll take a picture, and then you'll announce, so when you're there, you'll all be together, and when you need to talk about what to do, then you're ununited. These days you're opening a hotel where there's no way to that hotel. Millions of euros are spent unintendedly in this class when the country is struggling to survive. When thousands of citizens can't pay for electricity, they can't pay for basic obligations. We're listening here between you two to discuss how someone cut off the big burdens. It's true when two finance ministers meet, then they cross the spear, so this is really funny and sad to listen. Therefore, I remind you gentlemen of the ruling coalition that for this budget you have proposed, which is extremely bad, which is your electoral budget, which has no prospect of exporting programmes, employment, for some of the works to be carried out. You can't touch a big investment. You're here to announce, I went out the other day, I couldn't listen to Mr. Kiric when he started talking, and now I want to send him a message from here. I, as Minister for the same time, have done 15 kilometers more corridors than you have today who have only worked corridors, and four and a half thousand miles of roads. I didn't take anything home, but I did, go to Zlatibor Sicevačka Klisuru, go to Vrsac, go to Subotica that tape, Beška and what else, Niška Banja, the Macedonian border, take a look at it. You said the concession couldn't work, you shut down the biggest investment, and you told Mr. Prime Minister they gave up the Alpina, it's not true you drove them away. You didn't let them work, and now you're trying to beat up on Beška's investment, and you're boasting in Beška that the performer was great and he was great and he was great, and it's true that he would do a great concession. You're boasting today that this Por and that Alpina are supposed to be doing a concession. Why did you interrupt the biggest investment? You promised to come out of the budget, out of privatisation, make four highways. That's what the president promised, which is where your chief investment consultant runs some infrastructure advice. What did you do today after four years? Nothing. This is your fourth budget. Four budgets have passed, this one's for next year, next year's government. You promise now, next year everything moves, moves but without you, because the people are sick of hearing lies, false promises, false investments, false stories of which there is nothing. Did you promise the 200 grand car "Fiat 2009" here in parliament? Where are they? Did you ask for money for that investment, did you approve? What did you do today as a result? Nothing. Did you say you were going to do the Poiate, Nis, Dimitrovgrad, what did you do? You like those little machines, burying the earth's works, doing this a little bit and doing this to Novi Sad – Subotica, working where there's the least traffic, and it's good that you did it, at least that you did something, but you didn't say anything, that you destroyed all the toll companies in Serbia, all the construction companies in Serbia. I'm not going to tell you now about Chipsara again, I'm not going to tell you about LowBuild, about Mahgnochrom, I'm not going to tell you about the companies that you've been sick of in the privatisation process, about your customers. I don't know who ran those agencies of yours, but we have two people who ran the privatisation key and they sit side by side and we listen to them criticise and spit each other, Mr Dinkic and Mr Cvetkovic. You were the one who ran the privatisation. What's the result of this privatisation? That's what you sit down and discuss. So, you worked as you did, the end of the year came, and this may be the final session of the Assembly, most likely, because you will not be allowed to give a new session before the elections, so that this budget you adopt and these strong laws, it is irrelevant, because after a serious government and one serious parliament, one serious ruling majority, will sit down to make one serious budget. Of course, that budget will be extremely serious. You've raised some cities here into the stars, you've talked fairy tales about the Loznica, every morning in the morning program, Jagodina, it's all blooming, and here when you're out for the budget, it turns out that for those cities that you've spit most, they're the best, and these, they're not, they're gone, failed in the last category, and with the most resources you've singled out. What's true, I don't know. You know that for sure. What about the cities you've been praising so much, and you've been saying that these cities haven't paid you a billion street lighting, what's going to happen to them tomorrow, who's going to pay for it? The price of your authority was extremely expensive for Serbia and someone will have to pay for all this. Here's just some parameters to hear, when you came to power, in this budget, when you took over, there was a budget deficit of 47 billion, and now it's 140 billion. It's the crowns of your authority, it's the success of your policy and your organization, and now that you're fighting with each other, that's what you're sitting around talking about at the coffee shop, so you see how you're going to settle your accounts. The government's debt in 2008 was 92 billion and now 447.5 billion, gentlemen. I can't comment. The comment's too high. Then, when you came to power, the year before you took over, the payment of the annual interest rate was 46 billion. It takes 370 billion for 2012. Gentlemen, what do you think you're paying for this? I ask you who will pay you and what will the future government do and how to do and resolve this issue? Therefore, you have brought Serbia into an extremely big problem. You've brought agriculture into a great deal of trouble. You erased the industry. Milk producers don't exist, there's only one unit in Šapec, and there's no one in charge who buys all the milk from Serbia at 24 dinar farmers, drives to Shabac, processes, and then gives us back and costs us 86 dinars. His trucks are breaking. In the morning they drive milk, and in the afternoon they return our dairy products back, and our beautiful new milkers, you fired all the people, you let the workers go home, you closed the milkers in your privatisation process and the milkers, so I don't count now, you closed everything. Whether only this one in Capco can process milk or not, I don't know, but it's your crown. You've destroyed the milk producers completely. The village sells milk in 2008 at 34 dinars in the ransom price, and now, in 2012, 24 dinars. In the meantime, oil was collected for double, concentrates and everything else multiple, etc. Not to talk about meat, to talk about strawberry fruit, not to talk about vegetables. So, it's all about the decomposition of the system in agriculture. There is no industry in the industry, 70% of industrial production has been destroyed. During your term of office, gentlemen. There is no industry in Serbia, somewhere in the tracks. Today, 301,000 people are working, receiving salaries and contributions and should support a state administration that is over 118,000. You're just growing up with agencies and administrations day by day. Go to the police today and explain if they can work for 30,000, and some of them at the agency have 130,000. Is that okay? Say, they've been waiting for you there all day, Mr. President. They've been waiting for you both in front of the presidency and here in the park. We've been walking all day, we can't figure out where they're waiting for you all. Where they hear you will come, they will stop, and you will flee everywhere. It can't be, you'll have to stop once, explain it to them. So Serbia has a lot of problems, there is one unserious ruling majority that argues day and day. You're all hunting now -- this guy spits this, that guy, this guy's looking for this, that one. You're all smart now. When I listen to Vuk Draskovic for me, then when I hear after the second, then the third, then the coalition, and you come out, and you spit them out in full order, and you sit in government and share your responsibilities, gentlemen. I don't care how you made that combination of yours, but the combination doesn't work. You have no results and you're collectively ruining us. Some of the stories we're telling right now, some of them have been campaigning here with state money for a year. Wherever you move, their billboards. Ministers have been campaigning for a year, and they're doing nothing. Companies fail, the economy collapses, there is no exports, there are no unemployed people and those in the campaign are just thundering around Serbia. Make some regions, we'll get better. I see Kalanovićka's not shutting down. Ziric doesn't shut down the machine. You're all going on a campaign. Gentlemen, what's this about? What's this about, Mr. President? Do you have control of the government? As you sit at the head of the government, and one delinquent is in your campaign all the time in the campaign, telling stories and criticizing you, you're the worst prime minister. I'm listening to these discussions. Come here, let them film inside what is said – the worst prime minister since there is a government, a man who can't do anything, he doesn't wonder, he's been conducting himself from a center. That's the story, and here you sit together and here you support each other and vote. If you're voting for the budget you're criticizing, it's really a shame. Therefore, I ask you to sit down first, to reason, to withdraw this budget, to negotiate a little bit, and to go to some temporary financing to the elections and then to make a serious budget after a serious government. That's right, Mr. Vlahovic. And you agree with me? Of course, that's the only reasonable thing. Otherwise, what you think you're doing, going through with this budget, it really doesn't make sense. You might vote this out, you've secured most of it, you've worked it out, but this has nothing to do with it. It's a shame that this is done in this way, that you've combined ten points, that you want this to go away in a day or two, that there's not much to talk about and don't write about, that you're turning from the subject to other peripheral things at the time of the budget. What are you going to do with the infrastructure, with four billion dinars? Nothing. How come Kiric's on some highway about eight billion? Ciric solved all issues in the economy, in regional development, everything works like in the United States, people employed, exports go, pay good, and now he decides to make small and auto roads. After a man, he wants to be as busy as possible. How are you not ashamed to serve us that the Ministry of Industry is making the right highway? Is that all right? Think about it, Mr. President. Think about a lot of things. You heard today from the people who turned your attention that it was wrong. I repeat, this is the eve of the election. The election is expected at any moment. Two months goes by fast. The fact that with some of the loans you've now raised, with some of the bonds you're going to make, you're going to do some jobs, there's nothing to do with it. The end of the year is coming, he's in the other day. January passes, no budget filling, February is here and you have an election campaign and the elections are starting. Therefore, gentlemen, don't be so hard on us with these attacks on each other, with your criticisms, etc., but you see what you're going to do and how and how to organize yourself, because it's a shame to end up a calendar year in which you legalized everything you did during the year over the rebalancing period a month ago. I repeat, you don't have one toll company that works. Who owns your consortium for the Chinese Bridge? Who is it? What about the bridge? What about the companies, the giants who stayed in Serbia? It was an art to destroy the best travel companies in Southeast Europe. Therefore, I wish you all the best, but the dead cap says that some of you will be by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65147	MP Dejan Mirovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65148	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, we are amazed that, simply, instead of respecting the Law on the Budgetary System, the Constitution and all that you mention in the draft budget, you have publicly admitted in front of the Government, not personally but as prime minister, that you have delayed the adoption and adoption of the budget in the Government of the Republic of Serbia because it was requested by the IMF. We're shocked. It's just amazing. Does the IMF run this government's economic policy? Does the IMF write this budget? If so, tell us openly? Why is the budget running late for 45 days? Because of some Mr. Mark Allen you negotiated with, of course, not you personally but the Governor and Government of the Republic of Serbia, who was representative of the IMF for Hungary and Poland or for countries that today have debts, imagine, Poland has a debt of $625 billion, Hungary of $325. Is that supposed to be our role model? Is that a European standard? If so, he should tell Mr. Mark Allen, representative of the IMF, he brings the budget, he says how much we should be in debt, he tells us how much public debt should be, he orders us to be social issues, to reduce student standards, issues for health care, everything mentioned and listed in this very neoliberal budget, a budget that is directed against our pensioners, against our workers, against education, against health care, and above all, he is directed to support the family of Angeli, who owns the company "Fiiat", the foreign banks of the EU that you touch in this budget, and of course, above all, and always above all the EU. Here you have one scandalous fact from the legal and economic point of view, that in the Republic of Serbia's budget you have huge parts that indicate what we are supposed to get from the IPA funds. It is simply incomprehensible and therefore we believe that, in legal and economic terms, it is simply scandalous to bring the budget because the IMF requires it and to work towards the IMF projects. What exactly does it mean? This means that the budget will be directed towards further cost tightening, for health care, for social education, will be less subsidies and despite your tricks that you are trying to through excise and public roads, and will mean what Mr. Bogdan Listofik, the IMF representative in the Republic of Serbia, says in interviews it is generally known that you should fire, I repeat, that you should fire 5,000 people from health care, that you need to reduce education spending, that you need to freeze pensions, that it should be said that foreign banks, i.e. EU banks that have almost 70% of the financial market, are doing well and that good interest is the biggest interest in Europe. It's scandalous and it says what's happening to a country that doesn't run its economic program, which listens to IMF dictatorships. You know, I'm not saying empty, that you sent a letter to the governor about the intentions of the IMF, Mrs. Lagarde, that she inherited the unfortunate Stros Khan and you sent her a letter saying that public enterprises would be sold, that state property would be reduced, that there would be a new wave of privatisation, at the exact moment in the countries where the IMF representative Mark Allen came from, you have a kind of nationalization. For example, the Bank of Scotland, which is nationalized, although it is the largest bank in Britain, the Hipo Alpe Adria Banka, which is the largest interest in Europe. It's just amazing that you agree to such double standards and this leads to such protests as this police protest, because you're directing funds to pay interest, to dotting foreign banks, to dotting the Fiats and the family of Angels. You'll admit that they're really not in a worse position than our pensioners, health workers, education, etc. Simply, this is one budget that is incomprehensible from the social point of view. In that sense, we have submitted 70 amendments. These amendments are aimed at reducing costs for the EU, for travel to the EU. For example, in your finance ministry there are huge costs, cost of contract service, travel costs and all of this is justified by travel, some meetings in Brussels, the EU, which is totally strange and inappropriate, if it is known that after the European Council's decision of 9 December, there is no way for Serbia to become a member for the next 10-15 years, God forbid, the EU. It's just that it's amazing that so much money is being allocated at a time when it's such a difficult economic situation. In this regard, we have directed our amendments and our remarks towards the Office for European Integration, towards the costs of your cabinet travel, the cabinets of the President of the Republic and other officials who go completely inappropriately, harmfully and economically non-independently into the EU and spend money that would be much better used. That's the purpose of our amendments. Also, to strengthen Serbia's institutions to KIM. That's what needs to be the basic essence of the budget. It is these funds that you allocate to the EU, for a completely inappropriate project that may last, 10, 15, 20 years, if that creation exists, that should be directed, it is billions of dinars, towards strengthening our institutions to KIM. Why not? You are right, it is not likely that Mrs Merkel is also leading the country's economic policy, you have the right to reroute those funds, for example, from the European Integration Office, from this ministry of Mr Djelic, to focus on the Kosovo-Mitroval Management District, the Prizrenski, the furnace and any other which exists here in this budget. On the other hand, we believe that the National Investment Plan is a complete failure. We believe that the two billion dinars you have defined in the budget for the National Investment Plan should be directed towards subsidies in agriculture. Experience shows that the National Investment Plan is used to create projects favouring EU firms. I will give you familiar examples – a bridge near Beška, where the Austrian firm is just asking the Serbian state to double the costs. Imagine in this crisis, for the bridge that built the Bridge. Can you imagine what that is? The same is happening with the Žeželje Bridge, the same is happening with bridges in Belgrade, etc. Of course, it should all be covered up with one propaganda, and here we have in the budget such nonsense. For example, you have, I think it's Article 2 or 3, and it's about IPA funds, as EU development aid. When you look at it in the budget, it's about the assistance the EU gives to firms from Italy, Spain, Austria, who build our bridges here and hold our famous builders as subcontractors. It is about helping through IPA funds for EU propaganda in Serbia. That should be made clear. That's why you have this press office, you have various offices, and finally, you have one office that is completely pointless, and that's this one for Mr. Borko Stefanovic, it's the office for some kind of negotiation process. To our amendments, we have completely rerouted those assets, which are essentially being thrown away. We referred them to those who need them most – health care, learning standards, social protection, military pensioners and, of course, to strengthen our institutions in KIM. It's something where I don't see any reason why you don't. I don't see why we shouldn't apply our amendments, because our intention is good and we think Serbia doesn't have an alternative. As far as the EU is concerned, it is, believe me, one project that is more than discriminatory. The SRS is against it in economic, political and other terms. It's just scandalous not to know what the public debt ratio is to GDP. You're talking, not personally, but the finance department says it's working around 44%, and the NBS says it's working somewhere around 46%. That's scandalous. Two of the most important institutions, or your colleague, who signed that shameful letter on the IMF's intentions, the governor of the NBS says it's 46% long, and you speak 44%, i.e. the Ministry of Finance. This shows what chaos is and what kind of cohesion it is in the government and the financial sector. As a result, we are coming into debt with foreign banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and all of this is entering, as you wrote in the budget, into the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. When you look at the budget, when you look at the draft budget, and when you look at the interest paid, that's the least said, it's not even vegetables and there's no expression for that. You have 5% interest and below. You have interest on the loan of the European Investment Bank of 8%. On the other hand, it's also said in the budget, you have a loan with the Russians and the Chinese, who are advanced here, the malts, the Chinese and the Russians are using us, but, behold, miracles, these loans only have a three-percent interest rate. How is that possible? So we don't want Russian loans, we don't want to build a project for Russian investment here, this same Russia gives $20 billion to the EU. It's just that it says it's a kind of guarding something that's gone down all over the seams. I can't believe you're so in debt lightly and on such interest rates. Look, for example, you're in charge of the Unicredit Bank, which is seven percent interest. The same Unicredit Bank announced a few days ago that it is withdrawing its employees from Ukraine, Romania and Bulgaria, to close branches all over Eastern Europe from Ukraine and beyond, but, behold, miracles, not only in Serbia. Because Serbia is a paradise for foreign banks. Serbia is a paradise for banks from Western Europe, because they are exploiting our citizens, because authorities and governors do not have the courage to oppose them. They have and give here the biggest interest in Europe. It's a scandal and that's why in the first article you have a huge increase in interest rates, if I'm not mistaken, about 14 billion dinars. So Serbia is working to preserve social peace in Austria, to preserve social peace in Italy, to preserve social peace in rich EU countries. That comes from this poor budget. Also, I don't quite get it, you're saying that Serbia should meet European standards. You know what the European public debt standard is - 85% in the EU, respectively, DBP, 85%! That's a fact. On the other hand, you have the Russian Federation where the public debt ratio with GDP is 12%. That's our goal, to have such a debt, not to copy something that's bad. This should also be your goal, to copy such a successful country as Russia, which has 12% of the debt in relation to the GDP of the public debt, not to copy something that is already on the verge of collapse, and where they themselves do not respect that stability pact that was made by the Amsterdam Treaty in 1997. I'm sure you've heard Mrs. Merkel, your partner, who said that the Stability Pact, or that 60% percentage, has not been respected and that about 60 or 70 times has been broken in the last 10 years. So they don't respect it themselves, and they're asking us to. I'm not saying it's a good borrowing, but I'm still telling you that you just look at something that doesn't exist in practice, that you look up to something that's actually lived a century in economic terms. So it's a completely incomprehensible policy. Also, you have debt with the European Investment Bank and funding for Serbia's 8.5% roads. It's a scandal. It's an incredible interest and it's something that doesn't exist in a civilized world. Our particular concern is yours, not of course your own, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which you represent, simply an incredible insistence on so-called European integration when it comes to the Transition Trade Agreement. Look, the budget says that customs are still dropping compared to last year's budget. You now have a loss of six billion dinars or 60m euros due to the application of a harmful Transition Trade Agreement. More specifically, and to make it clear to our citizens, 60m euros in this crisis, in this standard of living of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to whom do we give? We give the EU. It's just amazing for such a simple excuse. Here you should congratulate your honesty, it is good to admit that these losses, it says in the budget, in the light of the budget, are due to the application of the Transition Trade Agreement. Also, you're saying there's going to be an increase in excise duty here. You must know as a doctor of economic science, as prime minister, what excise duty is in economic territory. It's a tax that affects the poorest parts of the population. That's the essence of the excise. Instead of showing a kind of national, economic and political responsibility, to abolish the Transition Trade Agreement and thus save 60m euros, to shift it to health, education, pensioners, you simply raise acacise and take additional funds from poorer citizens to direct them to the EU. This is the essence of this budget, and that is the essence of the neoliberal policy of this government that you and Mr Tadic signed in the letter you sent during the application, where you say – even though there is no more neoliberal policy in the world, but protectionism is being introduced, we will introduce a transitional trade agreement. It's just amazing and we're surprised that something like that is possible at the beginning of the 21st century and at the moment when the social state, when social givings are reaffirmed around the world. Also, as regards individual parts of the budget, e.g. Section one for the Assembly, as MPs, as part of this society, we want to save costs and we propose that our one amendment, that 60 million dinars, which are defined for travel, be more accurate for travel to the EU, be directed towards the Kosovo-Mitroving region. Why not? What's so terrible about 60 million dinars to point at someone who needs it more? That's what we think of the press office. We feel the same way about the cabinet of the Prime Minister, i.e. Your cabinet. That would save four million dinars, and that would, for example, be directed, as well as from the European Integration Office, for education and the like. We don't see any reason to pay that kind of money for the airline. That's where we saved 30 million dinars and, of course, we headed them to the Kosovo-Mitrovian environments. It's something that's logical and appropriate. So we did for the Press Office, where we directed those seven million dinars to the Colubary region, where there was, as you know, an earthquake. It is particularly incomprehensible that the Ministry of Defence is devoting huge funds, if I am not mistaken, of some 80 million dinars, to fund EU-led military missions. At the same time, you have a terrible problem with military pensioners, with their housing problems, and we think that throwing money and giving money to the EU would be part of some kind of mission, while they take 15% of our territory. This should be directed to military pensioners, to those who have difficulty living. You've seen the terrible things happen, a few weeks ago we saw it, you all know what it's about. We also find it scandalous, it is your ministry, the Ministry of Finance, that you are giving us 211 million for membership in the World Bank or in the World Bank which has recognised KIM or the World Bank, which is trying to impose a programme called "The Road to Progress" through its representative here, and which propagates the next formulation – a job to fire, or – it is good that Serbia is in charge, quoting the programme, for a billion euros on the financial market at 7.5% interest. That 211 million needs to be directed, of course, towards education, towards those most needed, to health care, to our pensioners. Also, we're directing, and I don't see why you don't do that, two billion dinars just for agrarian payments from the NIP, and we think we need to help our agriculture. We direct these 100m euros, which you have defined to the Fiat or to help the Angeli family in the economic crisis, to subsidies to Serbian enterprises, to those companies that have over 50% of Serbian capital, and not to Fiat cars that have 67% of Italian capital, i.e. The Anelli families. We're simply trying to make this bad budget as good as it can be done under these circumstances. We also find it scandalous, it is also said in the division of the 20 Ministry of Economy, that Serbia is funding foreign banks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to subsidise loans to such lenders with the largest interest in Europe. It has to be interrupted and you just have to stop and reroute it to subsidies. Also, we believe that a number of agencies should be abolished, agencies that are doubled during your government and you certainly know that there are now over 130, and when you became prime minister, there were 60 of them, if I'm not mistaken. In that sense, these are our well-intentioned criticisms and if you want good to this country and this people, adopt that and this poor budget might be a little better. In that sense, I urge you to adopt our amendments and I call on you to leave this so-called a European path, to turn to our friends in Russia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65149	Does anyone else want a word with the representative? Yeah. ) Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, before I begin the budget analysis, I would like, for the sake of the public, to say a few words about the findings made by some speakers that concern privatisation. So, all the companies mentioned, which Mr Cvetkovic spoke of before me, were privatised during the period when the gentleman in question was a minister in the government and had nothing to do with the period when Mr Cvetkovic was the director of the Agency and I was the minister of privatisation, or later, when Mr Cvetkovic became Minister of Finance and later the Prime Minister. So if you're criticizing that something was wrong when you were in government, then you're criticizing yourself. It would have been a very clear and precise time for this period, which has been constantly trying to demonstrate itself here since 2000, to be divided by certain sub-periods of responsibility, even when privatisation is at stake, and we will get really different results from those who have been very conscious and very trendy for years. Now I'm going to talk about the budget. It is interesting that many speakers have had the same opportunity and responsibility to participate together with the Democratic Party in creating economic policy and it is interesting to hear proposals concerning essential fiscal consolidation, which the Democratic Party has been talking about for the past ten years. But here I will remind you that for essential fiscal consolidation, both essential political support and fundamental political consensus are needed. If we are talking about the work of the government headed by Mr. Cvetkovic and if we are talking about the 2012 budget, then we cannot look isolatedly at this budget compared to the entire economic policy that the government has led since 2008. The fact is, as much as anyone likes it or not, that Mr. Cvetkovic's government made the most radical cut towards fiscal consolidation, the more accurate reduction in public spending. It was the first immediate response made by the government in 2008, when the global economic crisis knocked on Serbia's door and when Serbia's economy, along with the financial system, faced major problems. I remind you that, thanks to such fiscal consolidation, we did not have a crisis in the financial system, our banks were not in front of bankruptcy, nor did the disastrous prophecies of many politicians occur, but rather ended in 2008 and 2009 without dramatic consequences. We ended up today, when you look at Serbia's place compared to the environment, then you can conclude that Serbia is a leader, but in a positive sense, at the level of the budget deficit, in other words, all the surrounding countries have a larger budget deficit, except for Serbia, the fact is that Romania has a smaller budget deficit due to their actual consensus of agreed entry into essential fiscal consolidation, which I will discuss later. When you look at the level of foreign direct investment, all surrounding countries have a lower level of direct foreign investment, Serbia is a true leader, when you look at the level of public debt measured by percentage, compared to the gross social product. Serbia also has the lowest level of public debt. I will not mention that Romania has a debt crisis, that Hungary has saved itself from bankruptcy thanks to the help of the international monetary fund, I will not tell you about today many predict that Croatia is waiting for a Greek scenario, and of course you are all familiar with what problems Greece, Italy and many other over-indebted countries are going through today. The fiscal rule of 45%, which some here have criticised, have proposed to raise it to 55%, has not been chosen by accident and it has not occurred to anyone that 45% has declared the upper limit of debt, but that the upper limit of debt relative to the gross social product has been measured in relation to the capacity of the Serbian economy, and we must all agree together that we have not completed the economic transition and that the core-fiscal adjustment is just waiting for us. Therefore, the 2012 budget has three basic characteristics that were identical with the 2011, 2010 and 2009 budget. The first is that it is a continuation of fiscal adjustment. Saving up to the limit to save further in the budget is simply not possible unless you want to deny the rights that have been defined by law. If you want to cut your pension and pension fund spending, if you want to cut the expenditure that some of them have mentioned here, of course, that's not the Democratic Party's proposal, if you want to reduce the other social benefits that someone here has also mentioned, I forgot who, if you want to reduce the second level that's defined by law, if you want to cut the rights, you have to change the laws. There is no longer the possibility of making more significant savings without incurring the rights that have been defined by law. The second feature of the budget is that he's anticyclical all the time. When someone says we had a budget deficit of 45 billion, and now we have 153, he doesn't really understand what the budget deficit is for, he probably didn't even bother to read the budget, but I'm not going to get into it. The budget deficit is the basic instrument of economic policy. If you have a positive economic conukture, then you can also have a budget surplus. If you have a negative economic conukture, your economy is in crisis, the whole world around you is in crisis, who's going to stimulate economic activity, if the state doesn't increase the level of capital investment? The fact is that the retail percentage of capital investments or public investments is identical to the percentage of the budget deficit, in fact, says that the total budget deficit is just aimed at stimulating the overall economic activity. So the second characteristic of this budget is anticyclicality. This anti-cyclicality is not only seen through the level of public investment, but look at the amount of subsidies, and in particular the subsidies in agriculture, which we will specifically discuss, of course, the part relating to the stimulation of which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been very skillful and, I would say economically effective in using, stimulating or subsidising private financial organisations that concerned the reduced credit price, which was one of the main economic policy responses in 2009 and 2010. The third characteristic of this budget, which can be said to be the characteristic of all budgets, but I would also say the characteristic of the state where we are as a country, is its social component and social dimension. Today we transfer a third of our income to the Pension Fund. If you look at the percentage of public expenditure, it's not a third, it's significantly more, it's almost 40% of the total public expenditure. When we add to all this the state or budget part that is allocated for social assistance or social protection of 12%, then it is clear that more than 45 - 46% of the budget has this expressed social component. So the budget is also anticyclical, in other words stimulating, developmental. It may be a developmental difficult word, but it is a real word and, I would say, an appropriate response to the economic crisis that we are in as a country, thanks to the global economic crisis that is all around us. On the other hand, the budget and how it takes care of those layers of the population that demand this support from the budget. I'll remind you that the budget and the mechanism are redistributed, and therefore that social component of the budget must be particularly expressed. If we just look at the structure of the budget, before we go to the income and expenditure analysis, we need to see what this budget projection is based on. There's a key three parameters. The first parameter is the projected growth rate. In this year we're going to have a growth of approximately 2%. That growth was corrected in September. The initial projection was 3.5%. He was corrected as a result of a second wave of crisis that began to have its facts in Serbia somewhere from half this year to 2%. We'll have 2% growth by the end of the year. I'm talking about 2011. In 2012, growth of 1.5% is projected. Given the expected other macroeconomic parameters, which the Central Bank also spoke of, I believe that growth of 1.5% is realistically justified. As for inflation, inflation is already in the corridor between 6% and 8% right now and has a clear downward trend. The deflator effects are very present. There is no objective fear that there will be an increase in inflation over the next medium term, or over a year and over, because there is simply a drop in traffic, something that needs to stimulate inflation levels. Thus, 6% inflation is realistic. I'd take advantage of the opportunity here, not wanting to get into the risks that many of my colleagues are doing, making no difference between monetary and economic policy. But the fact that we have deflator mechanisms will probably affect both monetary authorities and something different, probably a looser monetary policy, which will significantly help the overall economic activity. So I conclude that the parameters based on which public income and public expenditure are projected, that these parameters are realistically justified. When you look at the revenue side, there is a correction, with a simple calculation you will conclude that the correction is actually just the result of the inflation achieved in 2011. And really, at first glance, it looks like that, because if we had a income level of about seven billion in 2011, and projected 750 billion, that's an increase of about 6%. However, these revenues are certainly significantly higher compared to 2011. , considering that part of the revenue went to local self-government, thanks to the changes that we adopted in this assembly by the Law on the financing of local self-government and on the other hand the changes are also observed in the changed excise collection, i.e. changes to the Excise Act. What is important to point out is that this growth in excise revenues is partly in the budget, which is also essentially a technical redistribution, as part of the excise revenue went directly to the Public Enterprise Roads, but partly absorbs the fact that the budget remains short for the amount of money, I am talking about the budget of the Republic, for the amount of revenue that goes to local self-government. When you look at it at the level of the general government's budget, there's no big difference. In fact, there is no difference at all, because the general government budget, as you know, covers the Republic's budget, the AP budget, the local self-government budget and the JP's budget. The expected VAT growth should be only the result of better and more efficient work of the tax administration. I'm sure not only of VAT, but also of other forms of taxation, that there is absolutely room in the partial coverage of additional public revenues in that sphere that is popularly called the grey economy sphere. If you're looking at the other side of the expenditure, that amount, the increase is about 25 billion dinars, but what I would point out now is that it's falling, the level of discretionary expenditures is going down, and the level of non-discretional expenditure is increasing. What does that mean? That's good. A rise in the level of non-discretional expenditures is the growth of those expenditures that are legally defined, so rights. The growth of discretionary expenditures is subsidies and all that results from the discretionary policy of individual ministries. And that's where I'm going to say and I'm going to try to cut my story short, because I see that time is going on, and time is a resource that's not coming back, and that's where I want to say that if we're talking about anticyclicality, I mentioned that 4% of GDP refers to public investment. Of course, they don't show up in the Republic's budget, but in the budget of the state at all, you can find those 4% and you'll see. What's very important here is that the subsidies that go to the railroad are reduced. This means that it should be expected that the Railway will enter into the restructuring process with the effects of the next period. The amount of subsidies to public enterprises, other public enterprises, is being reduced, which I consider very positive, because it is necessary to expect a more rapid, more efficient process of restructuring of public enterprises. Where do subsidies increase? In agriculture, the agricultural budget has increased from 20 billion to 30 billion dinars, or nearly 300m euros. On the other hand, the total budget found at the agriculture ministry has increased from 33 to 49.5 billion. I have already mentioned that the government's socially responsible policy has been looked at, above all, at the transfer that goes towards the pension fund and on the other hand in the work relating to social protection from the state budget. So what I want to say in the end, and that's what the critical points are, is that this budget is in the next period, and it's being realized. In my opinion, the first critical point is the growth of economic activity and it is not just up to the government, because today no one in the environment can predict with an enviable dose of precision what the amount of growth or perhaps stagnation of economic activity in the euro zone will be. As you know, Serbia is with 85% of its foreign trade exchange related to the euro area. Not because it has no intention to place its products in other countries, but because the facts say that 50% of the exports Serbia is making in Italy corresponds to the total exports Serbia is making in Latin America, Africa, Russia, Brazil and all other friendly countries. These are facts, which means that with careful and due care, we need to look at what is happening in the euro area and measure the effect of positive or negative developments in the euro area on the realisation of the budget and in general economic activity, as I will remind, lower economic growth will mean a greater share of public debt in GDP, which is a minor problem. But lower economic growth will certainly mean lower tax revenues. Therefore, it is very important that the incentives defined through public investment are fully realised with the idea of raising this economic growth. Here, many have expressed concern about covering the deficit. Personally, I'm not worried about covering the deficit, because I'm sure there's enough money in the budget to cover at least 2/3 of the deficits that are forecasted here. You gentlemen forgot that we had a euro bond show and that money wasn't spent. This government is a guard, no matter what you think of it. You forgot that the euro bond emissions have just been defined by the idea that at a given moment that was moderate, at the world economic level, much more favourable, the valorisation of the euro-bonds that Serbia has made. If he did that now, the price would be much higher and the question is what level of success. That is why no one has said – the government has done this good job, which I personally expect from the opposition, because in this pre-political era we cannot expect the opposition to say a word of praise. As it may be strange for all of you if someone in the position says a critical word about what the government is doing. But it seems to me that this should be a manners in our future dialogue, especially if we want to, and I'll end it if we really want to get into fiscal consolidation. I'll remind you what fiscal adjustment means. Independently, two sentences, you won't be angry, you're always missing those two sentences. Regardless of the respect for fiscal rules, that means a different definition of rights, that means reform of the health system, and the education system and reform of public enterprises, and tax reform. We shouldn't just be on words, even when it comes to the opposition, it should be on deeds, and it should especially be on works, because it's for the good of all of us. So, DS, Together for Serbia, or ZES, that group will support the Budget Law and all long accompanying laws, and I am sure we will not have any rebalancing anytime soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65151	The word is Prime Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank you for the participation of the heads of Parliament in the discussion, and I have been closely monitoring the presentations, and I must say with pleasure that most of the presentations, i.e. they were related to the budget. Namely, there have been various trips, but I think it's over half the exposure, that it's concentrated on what's in front of you. In that context, I wanted to make three or four comments about what was said, given that this type of exposure gave me enough grounds to have material to talk about. First, I would refer to the findings that came from the MPs, where it is said that expenditures are underrated in the budget, and that revenue has been overrated, calling for fiscal advice. The truth is, however, that we used the rate when determining income, the estimated growth rate of 1.5% for the following year, which the fiscal council itself accepted. The second thing is whether she's well predicted or not, we'll see about that, because it's too early to talk and be so pessimistic and say that we won't be able to grow by 1.5%. I think we will anyway. In any event, that rate was the basis for defining income and, in that context, derived from that rate, they were not overrated. As for the remarks that the expenditures were underestimated, it was a surprise to me, because it was parallel to the finding that this was about the election budget. I can't imagine what an election budget it is where someone consciously reduces their spending rights compared to what even the opposition thinks would be logical to be. Anyway, I think this time I thank the opposition, who talked about underrated expenditures, by practically giving us some sort of assurance that we didn't make artificially fictitious budgets. The other thing here was troubled, and that's one story derived from a budget item called selling non-financial assets, and then it's about issuing bonds, the current budget reserve, etc. I don't want to answer to the construction, because it's based primarily on the wrong, basic premise. So, selling non-financial assets is not the same as issuing bonds as the MP said, even as one of my friends would say, as the name itself tells him, non-financial assets can't be bonds that are financial assets, so I point out this for the reason I expect that in a day or two a debate will come according to the amendments and in the details, so I would suggest simply that we know what we're talking about and that we don't make constructions based on the wrong basics. Thirdly, I would like to comment on the question that one MP mentioned, and this is about the police, where the satisfaction of how she was treated in the budget is expressed, and I really support that view. I've collected a few digits here that I'd like to give you. So, on the salaries for the police in the original 2011 budget, 36.3 billion dinars were budgeted, and when the number of employees was reduced to a net salary of about 48,000 dinars. In 2012, this amount of 36 was raised to 45.8 billion dinars amounting to an average salary of about 56,000 dinars or an increase of 16% compared to the original budget. It should be borne in mind that this 16% increase is not a real figure, for the reason that it is done as an average, however, the law that has been passed, makes a distinction between those who work outside with guns compared to those who work as counters or other officials, where those who have the job required is the possibility of a greater increase, so that some will get less than 16%, and some significantly more, and this particular category of people for whom the law has been passed and should protect. In that context, I think the police are really well treated in this budget. The fourth thing I wanted to talk about was the level of public debt, which the MPs also spoke about, but I would first of all give some kind of my vision, and not just my sighting, but some of the internal debates we had. In fact, the definition of public debt that is within the law is essentially a definition that would make sense to change and fix. We were thinking whether or not we were doing it, and of course, that repair would go in the direction of reducing public debt, and that's why we decided not to do it, so that someone on the side would tell us, yes, they did, and now they're changing the definition, so it turns out it's not true. So we left the next government to change the definition, and now I'm going to simply explain to you why I think it was necessary to change. First, because one MP said, public debt counts at a gross amount, at the moment you are in charge, your public debt is growing. The fact that you made it through that debt doesn't absolutely affect the level of public debt according to the existing definition, and you now have one situation, that we have, say, a billion euros in account and we have that they entered as our debt. What's gonna happen? We will in the next period without additional borrowings from these couples settle the debts that come for payment, and we will have a public debt to fall. The second reason why it makes sense to change the definition is that it contains not only effective government responsibilities, but also contains guarantees issued by the state for various public enterprises etc. These guarantees in one part, unfortunately, state and salary, are enterprises such as railways that have no ability to pay, but also in one significant part of the absolutely does not pay, it is an EPS or some other companies that have been given guarantees, only for reasons that they, based on state guarantees, could achieve more favourable credit conditions. In that context, part of the guarantee to be served makes no sense to be part of the public debt. Finally, the third thing I want to say is that public debt represents a two-digit ratio, we know that from primary school, and divided by b, where a is the level of public debt, and b is your level of GDP. At the moment we talk, the level of GDP is the one that was found on 31.12.2010, and during the week when we talk, b will not be the one, but will be the one that was found on 31.12.2011. Since we have experienced growth between 2010 and 2011, this fraction will now be larger and more consequently, the debt will be lower. Based on these two circumstances, one of the current flows will pay for what has been coming and the other that our GDP will grow for about ten days, in terms of the formula. We will have a public debt drop, starting next year and of course it will continue to grow due to deficits in the budget that will not be covered for example. Privatisation revenues or other internal sources. According to the calculations we've made, he certainly won't cross 45% by mid next year, and then we'll face the problem that he's going to beat him. Until then, I expect that maybe that definition to be changed or we should sit down and make a plan for how in the next two, three years we're going to take care of it, which, of course, I wouldn't talk about it now because I heard that this fiscal council has also proposed some measures. These are the measures for which this government is behind them and that it will begin to apply them. In the end, this is the fifth and not the third thing. One MP said he allegedly listened to us arguing with each other and mentioned that I was taking part in the debate. First of all, you're my witnesses that I took my word for it now for the first time, so I didn't take part in the debate. Otherwise, I don't generally argue with people, because I think it's my job to listen to them, to hear their arguments and to answer those arguments. In doing so, it is irrelevant whether they are from a position, opposition, etc. All those who start to argue with me, to insult me or anything, I essentially feel sorry for them, because I think that any insult is essentially a matter of some kind of lack of arguments and maybe some fear. That's why I don't want to get involved in any story that I've been answering someone, calling them names like that or whatever. No, and those who do this to me, I'll be patient to listen to them, if there's any arguments, I'll answer, if there isn't, I'll just laugh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65153	I thank Mr. Prime Minister. I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principled search and a single search for a word in writing with the order of MPs submitted a parliamentary group of Manjina, LDP, SPS-JS, SNS, URS, SRS, ZES and New Serbia. I give my word to the MP, Jovan Damjanovic. So we move on to participation in the work according to the schedule of the MPs, according to reports on the common principle and uniform search on proposals for items 1) to (10) of the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65154	The Democratic Left of Roma believes that the state has seriously made economic research and greater social stimulation possible through the programme and the development positions of this budget, as well as the capacities of financial ZIP funds, possible. We find this very important in this budget. Also, improving human and minority rights, the capacity of development exists which will improve human and minority rights, because it is an affirmation of the state and a step towards the democracy of our country and minority peoples. State subsidies under the civil sector project under the Fund projection, which account for 10% in civil sector programmes and projects, enables this very 10%. This is very important for the undeveloped branch of social programmes and other programmes in the Roma community project. There were problems with writing projects, there is no 10% to grant, but now it's the state, it's a big relief. According to the project of the Environment Protection Fund, I would like to say that the fund has large development capacities in this budget that will enable, and how the Roma community is implemented by the opening of multi-recycling centres. The government of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled to open 100 recycling censors in the state of Serbia. Of those 100 recycling centers, 26 were won by the Roma community. Four of us will soon begin to build, and this very fund and this budget allow for the implementation of other recycling centres, which is a very important and important factor for the Roma community, for the employment of Roma and not Roma. On the Democratic Left of Roma, it remains to mobilise the Roma community through this development budget programme in order to integrate and strengthen economically faster. This is the first time that the state, and this budget, has made it possible for the Roma community to go through its mini-enterprises, factories to get a job and have a better economic and social programme and development in our country of Serbia. When we look at countries in the environment and much more developed countries than the Republic of Serbia, which are in a major financial and economic collapse, which are in major recessions, and when we look at the Republic of Serbia, is not good, but is still good at it. It is the mirror of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when much richer than us have recession and collapse, and our country is still wearing it, I'm not saying it can't be better, but it's good. We hope it gets better. The Democratic Left of Roma as a representative of the Roma community in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia has never been a destabilising factor, nor has it worked on destabilising and will never be a factor in the destabilising of Serbia and its citizens. It will now work to establish all progressive and stable ideas and programmes of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Because of all this today's carrying out, I want to say that the Democratic Left of Roma will vote to wrap the budget with pleasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65155	The People's MP, Riza Halimi, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65156	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that it is very difficult to secure the development budget under the conditions of the severe economic crisis in which the state is located. It is also very difficult in these conditions to prevent further deepening of gaps between developed and undeveloped areas. However, this does not justify the government's unserious approach towards undeveloped ones, especially towards the most underdeveloped areas that are obviously present in the draft budget. Last year, the Assembly passed a law aimed at reducing the number of employees in the state apparatus, including in the administration of local self-government. Meanwhile, there has been a significant increase in this number, so I asked for information on how many employees have increased in the service of the co-ordination body since the position for salaries of employees in this government body has been increased three times this year. Similar increases occurred in local structures in local self-government. Due to this behaviour and due to the lack of security and budgetary discipline, the majority of the increased funds for the transfers of underdeveloped municipalities have been spent on salaries, not on the development component. On the other hand, direct assistance from the central government in solving underdevelopment is always symbolic in this budget, and this symbolism, here, to present to those 92 million dinars foreseen for transfers for underdeveloped municipalities, for financing investment projects, as well as for projects to reduce poverty in all these municipalities within the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped municipalities. It is very indicative that, in the context of non-intentional transfers, the transfer of solidarity has been distributed by very inexplicable criteria. Namely, the Presevo municipality, which is the most undeveloped municipality in the country with about seven times the population's population income, with a record unemployment rate of over 70%, receives significantly less than 13 other municipalities with a significantly smaller population. It's probably this way of trying to compensate for allegedly surplus funds or so on. the additional funds which are reportedly provided to these municipalities, which are made available through the coordination body, although these municipalities are not able to apply for funds in most republican investment funds precisely because of their involvement in the coordination body. After all, the funds provided for through the coordination body are reduced each year, and there is a reduction in rebalancing, and at the end of each year, part of the unused funds is returned to the state budget. Unfortunately, the increasingly difficult economic situation and the rapid rise in economic poverty in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja are confirmed by the mass departure of Albanians to the European countries, especially Belgium, Germany, Scandinavian countries, and Kosovo, although Kosovo is much less developed than Serbia. This means that the government's coordination body does not deal at all with the economic problems of this area or with the poor privatisation that was taking place, and at the time there was this administrative body, nor with the drastic reduction of the number of employees in this period nor is it trying to create any favourable environment for the development of a bar for small businesses. In addition, the coordination body does not deal with the most sensitive life problems of this most underdeveloped area in the country. That's why I've submitted the amendment, and I'm going to try to explain that amendment in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65157	Thank you. The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65158	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bosniak List for the European Sandzak will support this budget, but not just for one reason why these donations that our citizens expect in the coming year, health and welfare, and all the appropriations that go out of the budget, are simply of interest to us that the state works in one normal way. This budget is trying to solve the accumulated economic problems, but for a short period of time, I only want to point to two things. First, we have proposed an amendment to increase the resources for the Office's work on underdeveloped areas, for their development because it is normal in such a difficult economic situation. In these municipalities, as you know, a population list close to a million inhabitants lives. I think the Government of the Republic of Serbia will accept our amendment because it is necessary to increase resources and instructions towards the undeveloped areas of this country. Given that the economic situation in Sandzak is in an extremely difficult situation, the difficult situation in the economy, in the area of production is particularly difficult, I have repeatedly proposed to the government one measure and it is potentially related to something that the government has been doing for many years, and this is that from the budget we give 10,000 euros for a newly created job when it comes to foreign companies investing in the Republic of Serbia, since we do not have foreign investments in Sandzak. We have heard here on several occasions that the Republic of Serbia is a leader in attracting foreign investment in relation to our region's countries, but in Sandzak we do not have any foreign investment, and so on several occasions in the government I suggested one measure, if we do not already have any foreign investment in Sandzak, we cannot increase the employment rate, let us prevent the unemployment rate. We lost thousands of jobs in Sandzak in a few years. I suggest one measure that would be effective on short notice. She's justified because in Sandzak it's an extremely difficult situation not only in the economy. It's just a result of the fact that those who don't invest in us say they can't invest where the most underdeveloped infrastructure is. In that sense, we are voting, because we hope that this period will be invested in the Raška-Novi Pazar railway, the pipeline, Corridor 11 and all that is provided for in this budget. It is precisely the measure that would mean that companies in Sandzak who work for at least five years and have more than 50 employees, are given 1,000 euros in the form of subsidies or grants. If we give foreigners 10 grand for a new job, let's give it in such a weak economy 1,000 euros for one job. That's how we eased the layoff in 2012. Of course, this would be a short-term measure. This is not the measure of state interventionism, but the state must interfere in a situation where we have no investment in an undeveloped area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65159	Thank you. The word is from Vice President Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65160	Thank you. Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it was really nice to hear optimistic tones in this room about the budget debate. It's less nice that optimism comes exclusively from the ranks of government. It's even less beautiful that optimism has no cover because real life shows something completely different. It's just enough to get out of this room and immediately we'll understand how this reality disproves any kind of optimism that doesn't spread thoroughly when this budget is being discussed. When compared to this draft budget for 2012 and the 2011 budget, then they can learn the crucial things. First of all, incomes don't increase. However, they also expend as they increase. The deficit is quite stable, and public spending is untouchable according to this draft budget. Something is said that the intention was to keep this budget social and to have some elements of development. How is this budget expected to be social, unless those parts of the budget, such as the economy, the economy, agriculture, are expected to create some new value, so to fill the budget, and then finance those who are unable to create new values and who are in fact representing that social category? So there's already some kind of conflict between how the budget is conjectured. We've heard enough about this to be about one continuity of economic policy. And that's the problem, which is that the economic policy that's been led back a few years has produced the results of what she's given and what we're living right now. So the budget is definitely indefensible. I listened carefully to Mr. Prime Minister's explanation and I really expected him to give some clear reasons why he decided that this public spending as a sacred cow is still being cherished, and it is known how much public debt is actually, it is known that the debt, in fact, is passed on to the future, it is known that social peace is kept only by some demagogue moves and only by saying that this budget is going to protect those most destitute and poorest, I do not think anything is achieved in the real creation of economic policy. It has proved – without serious reforms and ending this poor continuity, we cannot expect to ever overcome this crisis that we are in. We can't expect anyone else to help us, someone else to understand, to take new loans. I guess we should try something and do something to achieve positive effects in terms of growth and further economic progress. But if you look, there's no growth. However, there is a growing unemployment rate. If there is a rise in unemployment, then how can we talk optimistically about any part of this budget? In doing so, we are aware that this is public spending, as regards some budget spending that is not so clear and obvious, when it comes to ministries, but when it comes to agencies and similar parts of the budget, so, budget users, then we are really coming to this situation to ask ourselves why we care so much about 130 agencies, and we are creating another new agency – the Office for Professional and Operational Affairs in the negotiating process of 24 million dinars. So, in addition to those 130, here's another agency, and there's only one comparison that works, to remind you that Germany has six agencies. So here's the chance to save, and there's been talk about saving, that this budget has that component -- why don't these huge agencies go away? Why don't you cut yourself in half? Here, for example, Croatia has 47 agencies and plans to split that number. If Croatia, which has reached this level of development that will soon be part of the EU, why couldn't Serbia show some potential in this sense to reform itself and force itself to be saved? If you look at those 100 agencies on average, it's multiplied by 24 million dinars, you get two billion. That's a very large sum. And not to mention the administrative environments that also carry very large resources, very large expenditures, not to mention the administrative districts of KIM etc., etc. I would particularly point out that unless there is an increase in the agricultural budget, and there is no, you will allow, last year was 2.7 and today is 2.1, unless there is an increase in the budget for the economy, why is there an increase for the KIM Ministry, or why is there an increase in the budget for the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora? So it all just connects, and in this context it's debated whether it's a social budget, whether it's a development budget, whether it's a thrifty one. I'm telling you -- no, just not.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65161	MP Dejan Radenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65162	President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the draft budget law that is before us is not ideal, but it is realistically possible. At this point, it is unlikely that any other congregation majority would make a significantly different proposal than that before us. In a country that tends to be responsible and based on the rule of law and elemental social justice, it is not possible to cut across its knees and say – we will bring a budget that is significantly different from this and how many people like to say – significantly more thriftful. At this point, most of the budget is the result of some previously broadcast rights and the way these rights are realised. The maneuvering space for reducing public consumption, which is some imperative in the medium term, is limited. This reduction can be carried out only gradually and with respect for all the interests of all the groups in our society, and not only those who are loud in making their demands. The SPS-JS parliamentary group believes that if we want to carefully analyse our budget as a crown result of the overall fiscal system and fiscal policy, without pointless and cheap-day political promotion, we need to look at the overall fiscal system and reach a consensus on its reform. We are already proposing, for example, that this be the first point on the agenda of the new assembly majority to continue reforming the current majority, whether we are part of it or be a constructive opposition that we are going to offer proposals instead of criticisms that are our own goal, and that is often present here with us. We know that the current situation is not ideal, but we also know that the challenges that have been set in the past three years are less the result of our weakness, and much more is the result of factors that Serbia could not significantly influence. Serbia is waiting for a balance between fiscal income and expenditure, and we all know that this can only be done through a better one at the same time and, I dare say, a fairer and more efficient tax collection and a gradual reduction in budget expenditure as part of a gross social product. Our maneuvering space is narrowed down, and therefore we need to act clearly in the coming years, which is what we're going to do. Let's look at a rough picture of state spending. If you look at how much we stand out to subsidize pensions, health care, education, subsidies to citizens and large systems, as well as for the minimal functioning of the state apparatus, I can say in the beginning that 90% of the expenditure is cemented. The fight can be fought for the remaining 10% on short notice, if that's the amount. It's very easy to cut without seeing if such savings can lead to even higher costs in a few months. Should we be saving on investments? Should we give up minimum quality standards? Does anyone expect capable personnel to do hard work on minimum income reforms? Should we bury another big system? We are for a decisive reduction in the number of imaginary jobs in the state administration, but these are not costs where huge savings can be achieved. It's a simple moral question, but it's not a question of which our public finances will recover. Just as it is not a key motive for MPs to deal with the cost of services policy in a congregation restaurant, so our budget does not depend on things that are popular when it comes to costs. That's fair to say, even if it wasn't popular. We really don't mind, just like our coalition partners, coming up with a broad social consensus on where our public finances should go and what we should do next. We know exactly what the level of public debt is, what the legal amount is, and how much deficit we've projected. What we really don't believe is that the exact black forecasts of 2012 are zero growth and reduced tax revenues. We don't believe that our debt can increase more than 55% of gross domestic product. We don't believe we're gonna have a problem with course. We do not believe that the capital will escape from Serbia, in fact we hope for much better. I will repeat once again that the financial markets do not perceive us as a highly risky country, and we are not highly in charge of any parameter. The current majority made great efforts to attract foreign direct investment during the period when it was a very difficult job. We didn't project a 3% growth rate for no reason. We expect 2012 to be the crown of our efforts, not because it is an election year, but because it takes time to feel and some positive consequences of strategic policies. The growth rate of gross domestic product, based on budget revenue and expenditure projections, is the result of estimates of both domestic experts and international organisations. Given that the budget is a document that requires a certain time to be valid and meets the legitimate interests of all Serbian citizens, the fact that at the end of December it audits the growth rate and forecasts that it will be lower cannot significantly revise the document that has already entered the assembly debate, i.e. the procedure, and which should be voted out in order to avoid a well-known manner of temporary financing, which was a common practice in the times of the former congregational majority. In particular, it is not possible to change the budget simply because, instead of a reduced projection of growth, black forecasts are also being made in the year to come. Even if cautious and black hunches are true, there is always the possibility of rebalancing, because in turbulent times, when and much more developed market democracies, with a long tradition, are not able to answer the question precisely – what brings us in 2012, Serbia cannot be expected to be a wonder country. It's just not possible, it's not realistic and it's not fair to expect us to be better than the best in terms. The planned budget revenues and expenditures are not a reflection of the set of good wishes, but of the serious analysis and planning on the Imputs that were available to us at the time when the budget was made. Is there too much baseless and dangerous optimism here? Well, it just isn't. The proposals for amending and supplementing the laws that support this package in today's debate are one of the reasons why we believe in our projections. The planned reforms should enable just better collection of contributions and create a kind of partnership between the state and the private sector. This is something that the SPS-JS parliamentary group has been talking about for years, which is that our society has to have a consensus on some basic issues and then it won't be easy, like today, to avoid paying contributions and obligations to the firm, leading to a situation that some people only pay when they want to, and that those who do their job fairly have to bear an intolerable burden. However, if we will stick to this idea of consensus, which has not yet come to life unfortunately, but which will have to be our reality and in matters that are not only principled and rhetorical, then we simply cannot ignore the fact that there are no simple and fast solutions to our situation. The Socialist Party of Serbia as a state-of-the-art and responsible expects all relevant entities in our country to make their constructive contribution, instead of making big promises, and that those who run the state today are shown to be incompetent and corrupt. The reason is very simple, because we know that whoever realises this particular budget in the second half of the year will not be able to keep the big and cheap promises he makes today. We, who are advocates of our society having to rely on values and basic consensus, want to point out that the greatest harm will be that those who criticise the budget, if they come into the situation to realise it, are in a position to step up their criticisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65163	Thank you. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65164	Dear Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will primarily focus my exposure on the agrarian budget, because I think it is worth it and that it is very important that our agricultural producers hear exactly what this government has prepared through the budget for the coming year 2012 as an incentive means to improve agricultural production and to increase the competitiveness of our agricultural producers on the European and world market. And when I first heard the number of the agrarian budget, I was truly happy and hoped that at the end of my term, the government had at least partially fulfilled some of the promises it made during the pre-election period, that the agrarian budget would be at least some 400m euros in the first year of power. However, when this agrarian budget is looked at more closely, as it is conceived, then it can be determined that it has tried to extort the figures, that the really agrarian budget has been seriously increased and that it will contribute to the improvement of agricultural production and the populist attempt to explain to our agricultural producers that, for God's sake, the government has finally realized that agricultural production in this country is also a serious business branch and that it needs to be invested more in it. However, when it is detailed in paragraphs and by administrations and distributed what they represent in the right sense means of subsidies for agricultural production and what is merely fictitiously set up as a subsidy, and will essentially be used for other purposes, then another picture will be obtained. I'm about to try to compare what was given in the 2012 budget and what was given in the 2011 budget rebalancing, just to show you people's MPs and, above all, to our agricultural producers that the truth is a little different and that essentially this agrarian budget, according to those projections relating to the subsidisation of agriculture, was almost nothing increased, that it remained in the amount that it was in the previous year. Here, let's start at function 420, where it applies to agriculture, forestry, hunting and fishing, where, among other things, the profits of those who work are shown. I will not look at the number of total employees and how many contracts have worked, but what can be seen immediately and noticed is that in the 2012 budget in this subsidisation function compared to subsidies, I again underline, in the budget rebalance, almost 300 million less. The total amount of this function in 2011 was 4,079,000,000, and planned for 2012 was 3,949,000,000. So, for not full 150 million, this position in the 2012 budget is lower than in 2011, and the resources of these functions will be used to establish a meteorological biological reporting service system in agriculture, thus enabling the timely implementation of electrotechnical safeguards to protect the stability of agricultural production, preserve food security, etc. Furthermore, the funds of this function will be used for the selection measures in livestock, to ensure and improve the genetic potential of the livestock stock, to improve meat production, milk, eggs, wool, honey, etc. Then, the assets of this function should be used as support to non-competitional holdings, those of the owners who, by their production and market positions, are not able to monitor trends dictated by the market and which, based on the placement of their own products, do not provide a satisfactory level of income. So this position should finance what I read, and I think you could see that the less funds were planned in 2012 than in 2011. The next fund is to encourage the development of agricultural production in the Republic. The explanation given by the ministry, which is written in the budget's explanation, states that this fund will be used to encourage the development of agricultural production and that it is educated to encourage the development of agricultural production through the subsidisation of agricultural production, in particular the lending of loans to registered agricultural holdings, which are entered in the register of agricultural holdings. So, for giving or subsidising above all interest on short-term and long-term loans. It also explains that funding sources of the fund were provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the current year, funds collected from the repayment of loans and other funds made in accordance with the law. In this function and economic classifications, the total planned funds are about 250 million less for 2012 than they were in 2011. In 2012, 2,050,000 were planned, and in 2011, this budget position was 2,333,000,000. Those who plan to apply for loans or to use incentives through these economic classifications and this function should see for themselves how truly this government and the Ministry of Agriculture have come to an honest approach in terms of an increase in funds. Furthermore, I would like to point to other positions in the budget and indicate the funds planned for the Plant Protection Authority. In terms of total planned funds, they were increased by almost 100% and amounted to around 1,043,000,000, and last year they were not full of 700 million. These resources should be spent on the protection of plants against infectious diseases, pests, control of plant protection products and fertilisers in production, internal and external transport, control of the use of plant protection products, production and registration of plant protection products, plant nutrition, phytosanitary control, inspection, seed of fruit material and other business. However, what is symptomatic, as part of the Plant Protection Authority, is the most increased EC 424 relating to specialised services, amounting to 842 million dinars, and these funds should be used to settle the obligations related to the two-year examination of varieties in the country's field and laboratories for plant species for which DUS - tests are not carried out in the Republic of Serbia and the extension of the reference collection of varieties. DUS – the test is used, essentially, as a test to prove the uniformity of plant species. Anyone who wants to do that test as a seed manufacturer, he's funding himself and paying for it. That is why it makes no sense for me to increase in this amount, and these funds have increased significantly compared to last year, in the 2012 budget. Let's just say it's not so bad. There are some more drastic positions through which you can see how they are planned and where these funds will be spent. A budget fund for the Republic of Serbia's waters is set out. The funds are intended to finance operations of general interest, with resources being provided in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, other than the territory of the AP, for the benefit of water, for the use of water goods, for water discharge fees, for the disposal fees, for the use of water facilities and for the system of water compensation incurred in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, other than the territory of the AP. The resources of this budget are intended to finance operations of general interest, namely: water flow management and protection against harmful water facts, water treatment and use, water protection against pollution, construction, maintenance and management of meliocide systems, construction and management of regional and multi-purpose hydrosystems and other activities of general interest. The funds of this fund, compared to 2011, were increased by 5.5 billion dinars, and that, above all, by increasing the ministry's own funds, with the EC 451 increased by as much as 3,200,000 dinars, and that no word in the explanation is given where they will be used and for what purposes. This is, to say non-transparently, and also to indicate certain positions, such as buildings and construction buildings, with an amount of 4,550,000, is also something that is suspicious, in terms of showing that position. Furthermore, I would like to point out the similar positioning of budget funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia Forests Fund, where this fund has also been increased by nearly 750 million dinars, and again primarily by increasing its own income from the Ministry of Agriculture. Where the most drastic relationship between the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture with agricultural producers can be seen, this is a demonstration of the funds in the Agency for Agricultural Payments, as the most important part of the administration is to pay off incentives, meaning subsidies. The total amount planned for 2012 is lower than for 2011. It's not a significant and significant reduction, but it's obvious. The reduction for 2011 was planned for 16.815,037,000 and for 2012 the minority was identical. But more importantly, that's what's all settled down as obligations from that agency, how much will be transferred for 2012 and simply how these planned funds will cover all the costs paid through the Agrarian Payments Agency. These are primarily the subsidies of the instructions, so, fuel subsidies or those payments per hectare and that fuel, then certified seeds and artificial fertilisers. Unsettled commitments based on agricultural producers are about six billion, you said in the report that the total amount is 14 billion 806 million, and that only eight billion 584, was paid off as of 28 November 2011. So there's still six billion dinars left. Furthermore, about 700 million were left unsettled for milk premiums, about 750 million dinars were left unsettled for genetic improvement in livestock. These are all the funds you need to charge this position in 2012. It's just not going to be for that money, because according to just my roughest budgets, what's not settled and what's supposed to be financed, it needs a minimum in this position, so the position of the Agrarian Payments Authority should be 28 billion dinars. All in all, so, due to a lack of time, I'm going to leave something behind and speak to the amendments, but what I want to point out is that this kind of projected agrarian budget simply doesn't comply with the budget law, and it's also beneficial for agricultural producers, and it points to exactly the Fiscal Council. So on page 12 of this report of the Fiscal Council, it clearly states that inaccurate and not transparently planned consumption of its own revenues, which could jeopardise the achievement of fiscal objectives in 2012. A large part of the public administration, ministries, funds, administrations and institutions and the like, the fact is that they make their own incomes from different fees. However, the Fiscal Council's analysis found that the way these funds are used and that they are shown in the Budget Law are not in line with good public finance management practice, and this could jeopardise the achievement of fiscal objectives in 2012. Furthermore, the Fiscal Council states that the budget planning constraints in 2012 have been bypassed through their own revenues where unusually high expenditure growth from their own sources of budgetary users, where there has been a sharp reduction in budget expenditure and they see that some of the economic functions of the state, such as subsidies, have been transferred to funding from their own sources, which they believe are not in line with the Budget Law where spending control is weaker. So, the Ministry of Agriculture, we see an extremely high growth in the planned payments for subsidies compared to 2011 through the budget of the Republic of Serbia Water Fund, the Agricultural Land Administration, the Forest Fund budget, where these funds are essentially fixed, based on subsidies, increased by 15.5 billion. In fact, it is impossible to predict exactly how much the growth of the singles will be for subsidies from their own incomes. In essence, such spending bypasses the fiscal rules aimed at reducing the allocation of earnings compared to GDP. Unfortunately, due to the lack of time, I have failed to show everything, but in the end I want to realize that this fictional increase of 16.5 billion dinars will by no means contribute significantly to the improvement of agricultural production, and if the positions shown in the budget are respected, essentially by our estimates, it will not be enough to settle those underlying debts either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65165	National MP Jelena Travar – Miljević, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65166	I thank the chairman. Dear Presidents, the Presidency, today we are discussing the 2012 budget and the budget is a legal and political act. Before us today is an act that depicts the country's political, economic and cultural structure. Given that 2012 and all the forecasts for 2012 will be another difficult year, I believe that after the adoption of the budget, it will approach the adoption of an anti-crisis package. Also, we'll agree that some ministries in this budget have more resources and less. For example, already within the framework of the work relating to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, funding has been reduced even in that part of the NSZ, but investment support funds remain as agreed. They'd say there's one consensus for this budget to be adopted and to continue so-called. as normal a function as normal. Since I come from a municipality where about 80% of the population is engaged in agriculture, I've paid a little more attention to the funds relating to the implementation of agrarian policy. Also, it may not be a pleasure, but we will agree that during the previous period since the formation of this government, there was no single agricultural policy. Agriculture in our country can contribute significantly more to overall economic growth, but it also needs greater support. As it is written in the explanation, a quarter of Serbia's employees make up agricultural employees. The participation of agriculture in national GDP carries around 10%, while the participation of agro businesses exceeds 20%. We will also admit that under very difficult conditions, because it is difficult to implement in a particular area, unless there are clear guidelines and frameworks, there are certain results. Aware of the fact that the budget has been included and donations through projects since 2008, it is clear in the budget that 22 billion and 858 million have been allocated directly from the agriculture budget. So I would disagree that we have a significant increase in the agricultural budget in 2012 because only about 2% of the budget is allocated directly to agriculture. What is expected of its own income is a much larger figure, and I also have to mention that in 2012 there are lines of borrowing and income from earlier years of 11.3 billion. What also creates me a personal doubt, is a Article 27 that defines the use of funds from the lease of agricultural land. I wonder if perhaps today we should have had amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. Also, I must stress that as the previous colleague said, there are debts from this year to farmers and only for subsidies they amount to, when we talk about wartime of 6 billion dinars. I simply wonder where 13 billion more will be charged this year than the last one, and I think that agricultural land represents a resource to be taken care of and returned to. I think farmers are closely following what's going to happen this year, given the experience of earlier years and last year's experience. I also believe, given that I come from a municipality where a large number of farmers are not even a little naive, that they know very well that they judge and think, that they are extremely valuable. And therefore, I think it would be responsible to give them a real picture of what they expect in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65167	National MP Nemanja Sarovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Cvetkovic, you have managed today to prove once again that the country is absurd, and I am entitled to tell you surprised by your arguments, you have succeeded in the budget that lies on a thousand sides to explain it with five minutes, then you should have been replicating Mr. Vlahovic longer, after his presentation. Today in Serbia, you don't know, and that's something that's been following your government for four years, you don't know who the government is, who the opposition is, you've pointed out as some kind of information, which is something to be proud of, that this is the fourth budget you're bringing, but I really don't think that the citizens of Serbia who are completely impoverished, who have lost their jobs, who are really barely making ends meet, have any reason to celebrate your little jubilee, I think it's clear that the worse government has never endured a longer period of time. The day you were elected, we also predicted that this government would last a long time, not because it was quality, but above all, because there is no principle around which you formed the government, except for the mere desire for power, and it was then that there was no principle that could lead to the collapse of that government. That's why today we have this completely schizophrenic situation, that those who will vote when it comes to voting day for this budget may be harsher critics of that budget, than we who are indeed the opposition. You tried to introduce some new concepts and democratic, and economic, etc., so today we heard of zero growth, for example, it would be good to say if then there was a zero drop, because, we heard of some kind of market democracy that, as one of the previous speakers said, works in Serbia, I don't know if by market democracy you meant buying MPs, which characterized the previous period, because perhaps it could explain that the people's treatator, who spoke first, indeed, even though the formal opposition, was all the time praising the government. We also heard the question – should we save on investments? My God, now someone in the opposition should stand up to it, and you said it's actually a budget deficit because all that deficit goes into investment and it's actually a substitute for thesis. If you were able to fill that state budget, then you would never have to be in debt and make out of investment and debt, but there's always a second question possible, the opposite question, which is much more correct, whether the investments, especially the ones you've been making for four years, should introduce the state into a debt crisis. You, Mr. Cvetkovic, tried to change through your discussion and some of the laws you've passed, such as the Public Debt Act, so the moment your government came into conflict with the definition of public debt, the law was re-injured, and you said it was not a public debt, but a legal definition, of what is a public debt, we could change it, and we didn't want anyone to object to us. I don't know if you've been notified to Mr. Cvetkovic, at the time of your term of office, the Public Debt Act has been amended three times, each time to allow the City of Belgrade to be further in debt. Each time, therefore, to the insistence of Dragan Gilas, the vice president, or vice president of the Democratic Party, and all this has led to today 80% or even 90% of the public debt of local self-government in Serbia wastes on the city of Belgrade, which is in charge of incredible 82 billion dinars. This is a much worse percentage in the case of the City of Belgrade, so about 100% or over 100% of the projected own incomes are 76 billion, we are already in charge of 82, meaning around 110% of our own income already in debt, you say – that your government's debt is between 44% and 46%, and that's supposed to be not much, so Mr Dinkic even said that one Germany has a public debt of over 80%. I don't know if your coalition partner has informed you, but one Germany has a thousand-billion-euro export, and on the other hand, one poor and poor Serbia under your 11-year-old rule has a total of barely around 10 billion. So, you can't compare any of the grandmothers and frogs in any way. Another genius thing we've heard from Mr Dinkic is that the company needs to be completely abolished, or at least for small and medium-sized enterprises. I would really like to know where it was implemented in practice, as long as we can listen to the brilliant plans of the United Regions right before the elections, and when will we finally be able to see any results? It would be good for Mr. Cvetkovic, I tried to find it in the budget, I failed to see if this initiative of the United Regions, which tours Serbian citizens, convinced that the local community will receive tens of millions of dinars in the next period, so for example, they said that the local community of "Fontana" in New Belgrade will have 23 million, so I don't know the local community "Ripanj" has 30 million, so the various other local communities will also have 20, 30 million dinars, Mr. Cvetkovic, it doesn't say anywhere here. I would like to know if it is included in this budget and if it is, whether you will pay off that money first, or whether you will pay off those famous thousand euros, which you have deceived Serbian citizens in previous elections. We have also heard from your coalition partners that Hungary, Croatia and neighbouring countries are waiting for the Greek script, and that gives me the right to wonder why you, Mr Cvetkovic, are pushing the country into the EU and trying to introduce European standards, if these very European standards are neighbouring countries, or those that are a little further, have led to the brink of collapse. Greece has been a member of the EU for 30 years, and look at what effects are devastating, these European standards have on their economy. After all, I thought to Mr Cvetkovic, that you had completely broken up with these European integrations, the moment you heard clearly from the enemy of Serbia, which you represent to some European associates, that the EU is also openly seeking Angela Merkel, as a representative of the most powerful country in the EU, asks the Republic of Serbia to lift what they call the parallel institutions and what we call the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia, and that Guido Westerwelle is asking that Serbia respects the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, I am surprised, that is, the territorial integrity of Kosovo. I am surprised by Mr Cvetkovic, that you have not responded to another of your coalition partners, Mr Balint Pastor, who, as an authorised representative of his parliamentary group, said I will also quote, because the Republic of Serbia has about 50 billion dinars, so with this money reconciles Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, he said that this is not unusual and that all countries in the region finance their countrymen in other territories. Please, Mr Cvetkovic, whether Serbs from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija are yours and our compatriots on other territories, or the AP Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia, and Serbs living there are full citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, it is obvious to me that this government is fully on the path of silent recognition and maltene twisting of the hands of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, to agree to peaceful integration into the Shiptar quasi state. In addition to that, government regulations that you have adopted on December 22, these are regulations on these border crossings, not as you call them administrative, because the term is used (foreword), and the boarder is an English word, which marks exclusively the border and cannot be interpreted in any other way, at the very end of the line, it is not important to interpret, it is essential. You recognise the Cypriot ID cards, recognise the Cypriot driver's licenses, recognise the Supreme Court of Kosovo, recognise the Kosovo Catastrian Agency, no longer issue registration marks with city codes such as Pristina and others from Kosovo and Metohija. You will no longer issue registration marks with marks of cities such as Pristina and others with KIM. I want to know whether that revenue you have charged, that 24 euros with the plates of the Republic of Kosovo and that they will enter, and will go in uninterruptedly in accordance with this regulation, whether you included that income in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I want to know, not so much that you would announce that in this way you might be collecting a million, two, three or five euros, but primarily because it is necessary for the citizens of Serbia to know how many 30 of Judah's silver coins are in today's course in dinars, euros, or any other currency, it doesn't matter. In the end, since I have already said that Serbia is a state of absurdity and that on one side you are spoiling the unfavorable, and that you do not have the other for the most basic needs. One of the items of the budget is the procurement of planes for the government's needs and for that you have foreseen a amount of 30m euros. Mr Cvetkovic, in action B 92 that has just been completed, gathered some 200 incubators and that was enough to solve the problem in the territory of the whole Serbia. Are you ashamed to spare the money to buy a plane for the government of the Republic of Serbia, which you could buy 3,000 incubators? On the other hand, the government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Health, participates in everything, as far as I know, five incubators. Are you ashamed to represent such a government and continue to promise Serbian citizens a better European future, although it is clear to everyone now that Serbia cannot get anything from Europe?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65169	Used 11 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic. After her, the Parliament of the People, Maria Bulgarcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65170	Thank you. Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, what is seen in the 2012 budget debate, especially by the professional public, and I would say today in parliament, is a fairly balanced and rational approach, i.e. as if finally all the critics of the government, so in the last three or four years, have admitted that there is a global economic crisis, and that it is affecting both our society and our economy, and that in such conditions our government, as well as other governments, does not have a very large room for manoeuvre, or some endless series of economic measures that could intervene in such a serious crisis as we are witnessing. With what I would say and for the sake of the public, our government with far more success controls both budget deficits and public debt, which fails many governments in the environment and governments in much more developed countries. At the same time, if we follow first of all in the professional public, so I'm thinking of a debate that's being held among economists, I'd say there's no consensus. What is the model of economic policy that quickly stabilises economic opportunities in such a major crisis and opens up some prospects for development? It's still being discussed, and there's going to be a debate, but I think, basically, at the base of all these discussions, it's actually a question of what kind of society needs to shift the burden of the crisis, or who can, or should pay the price of such difficult economic conditions? The proposed 2012 budget speaks of our government having this problem, which the parts of the population bear the consequences of the crisis, in the most successful way to solve, above all, by protecting the interests of the largest part of Serbia's population? It is obvious that the proposed budget also has a development dimension, but also that it is socially responsible. On the other hand, it provides what is important for citizens and price stability and keeps inflation control at projected 6-8%. It is also very important to ensure regular financing of foreign commitments. In this situation of the debt crisis, it is not irrelevant, on the contrary, it is very important to keep the rating of the orderly payer, and this is Serbia, and it guarantees it with the proposed budget. When I say that the budget also has developmental characteristics, this is supported by the fact that the total subsidies in the 2012 budget are 10% higher than the amount of subsidies in this year's budget. So it's a serious support and economy and agriculture, if investment in infrastructure is added, it's really not an easy assessment that this budget also has developmental characteristics under the given circumstances. In addition, I would like to stress that the policy of incentives, especially the policy of incentives in agriculture, has already been heard, but I think it is necessary for citizens to repeat that agriculture is receiving almost 30.3 billion dinars. That's 9.2 billion more than there was money in this year's agrarian budget, and only 26.6 billion dinars will be allocated for subsidies, almost 50% more than was provided in the budget for this year. Of course, we know that and we can measure when there was more and when there was less subsidy. So, the subsidy has been so far, but it seems to me that the main problem in the agrarian subsidies was that they couldn't adequately track the results, therefore, of the money invested. Are the target results being achieved? Are the citizens even informed enough? I think hiring a number of experts in the field of agrarians should just contribute to that goal. Therefore, the effective use of subsidies by agricultural holdings. This budget gives the assumption that we will achieve such a single goal. Subsidies mean that premiums for milk also remain, means five dinars per litre, and for heifers wrapped, but subsidies also provide donations in the wartime of 14,000 dinars per hectare. The envisaged support for the economy, agriculture and infrastructure investments gives real assumptions that the government's projection, I will repeat what the prime minister and other MPs have said, so these projections are not only governmental, but also the IMF and the Fiscal Council. So that this projection that in 2012 we can expect the growth of the social gross product by 1.5% is relatively realistic and such investment in both the economy and agriculture, the infrastructure should also produce increased investment and stabilisation, above all, labour markets, therefore increasing employment and ultimately improving the standard of living of citizens. When we talk about this second dimension of the budget, that we have a responsible budget, it is primarily seen in providing the necessary funds for regular pension payments, but also for earning in education, health, culture, police, in the whole public sector. I will especially remain on social protection in the narrowest sense of that word, as it is set out in the budget. I think the budget takes care of, so the budget is meant for social protection, especially those categories of the population, which, without organised support from the state, cannot provide even a minimum of social security. This is the role of the state, or central level of government, to guarantee a minimum of social security to citizens who, for various reasons, cannot provide it themselves. I will remind you that this year we have adopted a new Social Protection Act which is seriously, in a better way, protecting the poorest citizens, especially multiple households, especially poor, over 60-65 years old and better targeting, slightly more relaxed criteria for those who can enter, to have financial social assistance. Already in the last few months of 2011, it has been seen through the fact that we are additionally protecting 30,000 of the poorest citizens. Today, Serbia's basic social assistance receives 200,000 citizens. These are serious budgets. At the monthly level, that's 950 million. It's one of the measures that we're fighting against that absolute poverty and those social groups that are in constant danger of being completely marginalized and excluded. The Social Protection Budget also provides support for less developed municipalities to take responsibility for developing social services within the community. First of all, it is meant to help in the house, to the elderly and disabled, to the living room for children with developmental disorders, but also to different shelters, shelter for victims of violence. I think it's very important because for 10 years we've been reforming the social protection system with the idea of decentralisation, but obviously without support from the national level, many municipalities couldn't take responsibility in social protection. I would especially like to remind you that the new Social Protection Act has introduced a new right, a right for a parent who is not a child with developmental disturbances that could not have achieved a working relationship, and this child is not placed in a home, a social protection institution. In this way we try to keep the children in the family, in the natural environment, developing services in the community, but also through a new monetary right for these parents, when they meet the age limit under the Law on PIO parents who directly cared about their child can achieve a minimum pension and that the amount, the fee, benefits for the rest of their lives. It is certain that when it comes to social protection, as I have already said, it reduces social marginalisation of the most endangered and reduces social exclusion. I understand that there is a certain skepticism about the specific GDP growth projections given. It is really very difficult under the conditions of the crisis to plan these basic parameters of economic development precisely. I think the government has taken care of that and will make sure that the deficit does not increase beyond the allowed limit because surely achieving this growth rate would lead to an increase in deficits. The government, as far as I'm monitoring it, has respected the opinions and views of the Fiscal Council, but we've heard here today in the debate and those critics of the government's work or this budget that are only held to the views and opinions of the Fiscal Council when it suits them, and when it doesn't suit them, they tend to completely ignore those views. I think it is very important for citizens to know that the deficits foreseen by this budget, i.e. borrowings above all, are funded by development projects and budget revenues by what are legal rights. I mean pensions and profits in the public sector. In that sense, I think it is not correct to fear both pensioners and employees that in the event of lower economic growth, or greater deficits, that the measures the government proposes or would do that is to freeze pensions, or earn or increase VAT that would affect all citizens, I think that the Government is available and other mechanisms, above all, still reducing the costs of the administration. We see that this effort has been made in this budget as well. Repeatedly, this year's administrative costs amounted to 3.7% of the budget. For 2012, they were planned for 3%. This can certainly contribute to better tax and contribution. We'll come forward about that this week through the adoption of amendments and additions to the law. This would certainly contribute to a new law on public procurement in terms of greater savings. I also agree that tax reform needs to be continued, but in the direction of greater taxation of those who have more, what is a luxury goods, because this government has received trust with such a programme, a socially responsible government, and intends to ask the citizens again. So there are different ways to reduce deficits without being burdened by the largest number of citizens. That is exactly what the proposed budget is talking about, and therefore the ZES parliamentary club will support this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65171	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Maria Bulgarcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65172	Dear Presidents, honourable Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, listening to today's budget debate, I was under the impression that I and the vast majority of Serbian and government officials do not live in the same country. Me and most Serbian citizens live in a country with the lowest salary, with the lowest pension, with a huge public debt, with the highest unemployment rate, and therefore we have little reason to be optimistic. Before I say anything about the draft budget law, I would like to remind you, Mr Cvetkovic, this parliament is interested, and most Serbian citizens are interested not in how their money will be spent in the next period but as their money has been spent over the last eight years. In fact, this parliament has not received a final check since 2003, it has not had the opportunity to see the final bill, thus notifying Serbian citizens that their money was being spent. It's already been a practice for the last eight years. My colleagues and colleagues have talked so far and talked about the anomalies of this draft budget law. I'm going to try to point out some other shortcomings in this short period of time that I have left. I would ask you, Mr. Cvetkovic, does the Government mean anything to a report by the Fiscal Council, which is an independent regulatory body and which denies almost every paragraph of yours? Public debt at the start of this government was 33% of GDP and at the end of November this year it was 44.8 GDP. What the LDP has always insisted on in the last four budgets is a reduction in public expenditure, pension reform, a fundamental reform of the tax system. Without a fundamental reform of the tax system, there is no suppression of the gray economy. That's what we've been saying for the last four years, and we're going to keep saying that, and there's nothing in this budget's proposal. Col. Djuric noted that I would talk more about the agrarian budget, which is 2.6% in the draft budget law. It is slightly larger than last year's agrarian budget, but it is only an illusion, with last year's 22 billion being raised to 30.3. Is that enough? We don't think that's enough and that should have done much more for the development of agrarians in this country. Agriculture cannot be treated as the strategic goal of a country with such small budget cuts. For subsidies in 2012, 26.6 billion dinars are allocated. This money envisions paying off new incentives that will amount to 20.8 billion dinars, and the rest will be covered by funds to regress wartime production from 2011, as well as commitments made in the last quarter of this year. First of all, I'm talking about milk premiums, organic production incentives, multi-annual plantings, and genetic improvements in livestock farming. The difference between 26.6 and 30.3 billion dinars, according to this plan, should be used to finance the selection and loan measures in livestock. And while the Ministry of Agriculture pays off last year's debts by agricultural land, this year it was paid up to 30 hectares, and in January 2012 we have a difference of 30 to 100 hectares. That's 14,000 dinars per hectare. We'll see that all these incentives for all these subsidies, nothing new and no improvement will bring to the agricultural producers. If agriculture is a Serbian export opportunity and is the most significant area for development, its potential, you will admit that they were also unused by this 2012 budget. The rate of agricultural production decline in Serbia last year was 1.5% in GDP. The agricultural budget, in a country like Serbia, with 2.6% of the current amount, in order for agricultural producers to feel some improvement, would have to be 10% and the LDP stands for it and will also stand for the future period. 'Also, what I would like to mention in the draft of this budget law is dedicated transfers to local self-government and I would like to ask the Government if the current criteria for redistributing these transfers are celebratory? How is it possible for one Jagodina, when the municipality is so developed, when she has enough resources even to pay for the marriage, to receive 358.408.930 dinars and has 71. 185 inhabitants, and one Uzice, which has about 80,000 inhabitants, gets 228 million 505,000 418 dinars? Is this because Mayor Užica was one of the first speakers to say that the Law on fiscal decentralisation is not good and that is why the citizens of Užica and Mayor Užica are being punished to receive less funds from the dedicated budget transfers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65173	Thank you, Miss Bulgarian. I give my word to Parliamentarian Miletta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65174	I would start by saying that it's hard to talk about that it's a balanced development social budget, because today the basic thought of Serbian citizens is, those who work, especially in the private sector, whether and how long will they stay in the workplace and get paid, and those who are close to retirement for five, six, ten years, will they get pensions and pensions? There are no clear guarantees, we can pass laws, we bring them, we change them, we adapt them, but there are increasing numbers of social service users, for the amounts offered and the reduction of each individual fee. But I won't hold on to it too long, I'll try to point out how it might be in education and health care differently with this same money. It is obvious that there is an inert behaviour of ministers who, even in the conditions of the United Ministers, what is the Ministry of Science and Education, or of a stable constitution as is the ministry, although with the new minister, the Ministry of Health, cannot, within the very distribution of funds that are smaller for these latter health ministry than they have been, I have in front of me the parallel budgets of the last three years, so that we somehow reroute them and that we do not come under question whether the health care of citizens will be increasingly expensive and more and more to go in my pocket. According to what is proposed here, we see that less money, than before, although inflation has gone, is quite clear in 2009 and 2010, given for sanitary supervision, for drug surveillance, is given less for primary health care, but much continues to be financed by Batut and other institutions of that rank, which, apart from passing on the powers of the ministry, can earn themselves from selling their services on the market. So the enormous pay gap that exists between doctors at clinics and public health institutes is becoming striking. Bahato is the behavior of some directors, and that is clear to the public. You remembered Torlak, after an affair of vaccines that took a lot of money, where many other institutes could have been saved, say the Kragujevac Foreign Cereal Institute, which could have been saved only part of the money that went to the vaccines, not that people who burned diplomas, 57 employees, with over 100 years of tradition in labor, took away the land, took away property and promised that sometimes some of the debts that the state had made in their name, and the contracts were all clear to me, people had to lose their jobs, lose their prestige in their ability to create new varieties and, etc., to spend time on the street instead of at the institute. This is one of the problems I've gotten into, and it's an accident, because it's about an institute like Torlak. Of course, direct relationships don't. You go to prevention, and you shut down the diabetes counselling. A million dinarasque years, probably for a promotional campaign. That's one nonsense. You've shut down a serious institution and the minister isn't trying to fix it. It is simple, as if in the term of office, except that the MPs are holding sermons as they are to be delivered in office, and to preserve what has come to him. It's simple, he's got an inert behavior, and I guess he's in charge of what he found, that's how he's supposed to end it without changing any of it. When we talk about the Fund of the Republic Health Insurance Institute and the items that I followed here in 2008 to 2012, we see that for the issue of medicines for, say, a prescription of 20 billion and 59 million to 24, 46. It's from 2008 to 2012 and it's four years. Already, 20 billion are due to RZO pharmaceuticals, wholesale drugs, etc., and in Serbia, there are shortages of serious drugs. Is that coming back in 1999 and 2000, when we went on duty and carried the drugs in our pocket? The most basic – aminophylia, lasex, nitroglycerin, etc. That's not happening today either. Yesterday's paper report, and besides, you don't need a newspaper, everyone who works in the health department knows there's nothing weird about cheap. Why has no different policy changed, faster and more efficient imports? Why hasn't the law changed properly? Nothing is unchangeable when things get out of hand. Treatment abroad. We're tired of watching kids and parents beg their children to operate abroad. Various public revenues, various evidence, sometimes you pay for it, so look down at what was in Kosovo around the monastery, picked up some money, and we all paid in a row. It's very suspicious in this way to give money. Only four hundred million go for this kind of service and nothing has changed for five years. If we look at the Red Cross, they're smaller than they were, as if we don't know that the public kitchen and the Red Cross, unfortunately, we need them more and more, because that's also the reality in Serbia. Just for the shortest time, I'm gonna fly across about what could have been done differently and what was unclear. Let's just say, I haven't been able to find it in the budget, and every year I miss asking, the student competition, and that's clear to me, professional training of employees, and high school and elementary schools. There are significant funds, even ten times reduced. Don't those kids get laid? Then, givings that I can't really understand -- individual help to students, and that's for students where it's measured by billions. If it's something about giving scholarships, providing free doctoral studies, it's at the Ministry of Science, it's not given in education, at that department 140 stands, but it's a very vague place and what it refers to. (President: Time. Bring the end. We are very aware that even talented children and children of an extremely high average can not achieve any additional stimulation. Unfortunately, that's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65175	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft 2012 budget we are discussing today is extremely bad. He actually shows how bad Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's pest government is. Of course, we are not surprised that this is such a bad budget proposal, because this budget has not even been written by our government this bad, but this budget has come from the IMF. Mr. Cvetkovic says he's pleased to be here today, and he's pleased to be with the MPs today, and he was supposed to be 45 days ago. But he said in the media the other day -- yes, we did break budget deadlines, but it doesn't matter, it's important that we fit into the deadline that the IMF gave us. It is a shame to have such a relationship with the National Assembly, which means you have such a relationship with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You say the budget will serve as a basis for government anti-crisis measures. You may have written that somewhere between the lines of some invisible ink. What you see, Mr. Cvetkovic, don't talk about it. In this budget, agencies remain as large vermin and consumers of Serbian citizens' money, the rest of which are such offices, other NGOs, and a large number of contract employees remain. That's the scam you made when you passed the Reduction Act, apparently, the number of employees in the state administration, and you left the possibility of being hired by contract. Well, in your cabinet, Mr. Cvetkovic, there are 14 million employees' earnings, and 12 million labour contracts. As many as you have regular employees, you will be employed or employed under the grain. So you haven't reduced the number of employees in the state administration, and obviously you have no intention, on the contrary, of predicting new employment, which you can see well when you look at these items of the budget. You envisioned another 3,000 new jobs on the back of Serbian citizens. There's only 2,000 jobs in the police, about 1,000 in the gendarmes. Mr Cvetkovic, you are planning one special unit of 650 people, and there are already two special units in Serbia, the SJ and the Counter-Terrorist Unit. Right? That's right, of course. Three hundred men in the facial and object security unit. Who are you going to keep with 300 new people? Let's say you've increased the number of police officers who take care of the citizens, who are officers, or that you've increased the number of firefighters, and you talk and we read every day what a problem that is. Of course, you don't take care of what's of interest, which is general interest. You, Mr. Cvetkovic, are headed by a government that has contributed to 130 people losing their jobs a day. Out of 50,000 people, as long as they run out of work in 2011, it's only 1,000 from the public sector, and you're still increasing the number of public sector employees. You have a budget where you predicted a deficit of 140 billion dinars, and you have, Mr. Cvetkovic, 500 billion dinars of tycoon debt, which represents three and a half billion budget deficits. So, to charge off those tycoons that made this government, to charge for what they owe to the state, not to be a deficit, but to achieve both surpluses and solve many problems. A few days ago, these days, there was a topic, as if a student snack had been reintroduced. Of course, no one normal has anything against it, but what happened? You say that you cannot provide money in the budget for this, but you are calling on socially responsible businessmen, and then you will beg for students' lunches, and under quotes, socially responsible businessmen, which are actually tycoons that owe the budget and the state five billion euros. Then they will appear as, my God, caring, according to Tadic, socially responsible. Since this government is in power, so since 2008, this is data from September 10th, since you started in debt, Mr Cvetkovic, you've put us in charge of 6,626,942,300 euros. Now just a few things why you've been taking loans and how do you actually spend people's money? However, Tadic said the other day it was morally justified to be in charge. So you're in charge, among other things, of energy efficiency, of the Clinical Center, of building social housing, of improving services at local level, whatever that means. You got a loan from the Government of Spain, which is spent on buying Spanish goods and services. Unbelievable! Well, for the development of the private sector, the financing of the budget deficit and debt, and the loan, the regulation of the commitments made, and the release of the liabilities of domestic banks, the development of public finances, the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, the JAT, then credit to the Republic of Serbia, research and development in the public sector, etc. So, out of these more than six billion euros, Mr. Cvetkovic, not a single dime of debt has gone into production, and you're saying that we're first in investment, as you like to say, in the region. Mr Cvetkovic, please state one significant investment that is currently ongoing and ongoing. We also heard here that subsidies for the economy, even for agriculture, will be 10% higher. What kind of subsidies are you talking about? Mr Cvetkovic, no subsidies have been paid for agriculture for 2011, and you deceive people and farmers to give them even more in the coming year. What more? More than anything you gave them last year. What did you do with the pension fund? Among other things, you no longer have planned military pensioners within the Department of Defense. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister and Prime Minister, do you know that the lawsuit is under way, that a large number of them have been legally resolved, where are you obliged to pay 11 billion and 985 million dinars to military pensioners? I'm asking you where you're going to pay for it when you didn't predict it in the budget. Do you even know if you have that information? Of course, you don't care about obligations. Let's illustrate a few examples of how you predicted it in this budget. I've already said that in your salary office there are 14 million 770 thousand dinars, and you have a contract of 12 million and 93 thousand dinars. So obviously you have the same number of employees by contract as you have employees in a regular working relationship. We have a press co-operation office -- 62 million and 948 dinars, Mr. Cvetkovic. What's this office doing with, for example, four million dinars? What are constant costs? Do they spend this much on phones, electricity, water? I guess it's a constant cost. Office for European Integrations – 199 million and 240 thousand dinars. Why do we need this office, Mr. Cvetkovic? What black European integration? I guess it's more clear to you that there is none of these European integrations. And thank God there isn't. We from the SRS have long advocated this and are running a serious campaign against Serbia's entry into the EU. Imagine, we have a staff management service. Mr. Cvetkovic, what does this mean to you? What is this service that costs citizens of Serbia 89,390,000? Air Force - 314.516,000 dinars. So, you buy planes, you drive planes, and you don't care how Serbian citizens are and what these people who are on the edge of existence are going to live on, a million unemployed. Has it occurred to you that they're somewhere in this budget? Mr. Cvetkovic, 300 thousand children without a third meal. Do you have them in this budget? Of course you don't. But that's why you have the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Tribunal, so-called The Hague tribunal, and now we have 48,190,000 dinars. Then, the Office for Sustainable Development underdeveloped areas – 353,933,000 dinars. Mr. Cvetkovic, why didn't you focus these 350 million on these underdeveloped areas, but on an office that would take care of this sustainable development? Office for Co-operation with Civil Society – 36,154,000 dinars. This is really a disaster. Then – Office for regulatory reform and analysis of the effects of regulations. Imagine – 24653,000. Office for Professional and Operational Affairs in the Negotiating Process – 24.7388.000 dinars. Worse than worse. Who needs all these facilities that you've predicted here anyway? What are they for? The War Crimes Prosecutor's Office has a million and 200 grand to travel. Where they're going to travel, nobody knows. The Constitutional Court has huge travel expenses. The defence ministry, imagine, is being touched by international organisations with four million and 401 thousand. Probably these "coachs" sitting around the Department of Defense in the offices. All in all, we will talk about amendments in particular, a disastrously bad budget from which Serbian citizens will have nothing but enormous damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65177	National MP Milan Vukkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65178	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is the fourth budget this government brings. Four years of the global economic crisis and we can say, as for each previous budget -- that this is a budget that preserves the standard of citizens in difficult times, preserves the stability of our economy and opens up prospects for greater economic growth when the crisis is over. They say art and religion come from the same root, they have many similarities. On the other hand, art and economy are total strangers. We've heard a lot of free interpretations today, a lot of MPs counting on the artistic impression, which would be popular. They wanted to impress us with metaphors and interpretations. But when it comes to economics, there's not much room for impressions and art. It's about numbers, and we need to tell us what the numbers are telling us. They say the technical budget, on the one hand, is the other MPs say it is the election budget. Let's see what's true. When the budget's on the agenda, we don't have to be unrealistic and imagine what we should finance. Some say – you need more in agriculture. You should. It takes more for health care, for social services, etc., but it's not real and it's not a serious debate. That's what it is -- how little Perica in school imagines that state needs should be financed. What is it we have to pay out of the budget? Total budget revenues are 750 billion dinars. Pensions donated from the budget are 278.4 billion or 37% of revenue from the budget. More than one-third. Salaries are 218.8 billion or 29% of income. Interest 59.2 or 7.9%. A total of 74%. So what do you suggest we do now? Should we cut pensions? Are we supposed to cut wages and fire cops, teachers, teachers, doctors? That's not the answer. They say a PIO reform needs to be implemented, only no one says a pension-inhabitation reform should be implemented. Many reforms have been implemented. There are others left, but the essence of our pension fund is that we have a large number of pensioners and a relatively small number of employees. Until this proportion changes significantly, we can't expect any less out of the pension budget. Because it is our duty to protect the standard of those citizens who are retired. In 2009 and 2010, we froze salaries from budgets and pensions, and this year the increases followed the growth of gross domestic product and inflation growth. That's the plan for next year. So, the budget is not electoral, it is not pre-election, it is not planning greater spending than those foreseen by the Budget System Act, among other things. Should we be concerned about the budget deficit of 4.25% of gross domestic product? Elemental economic science, but also the Budgetary System Act, tells us that the recession needs to go with the increase in deficits, in order to stimulate the economy with additional money. This is something that counterpart Aleksandar Vlahovic explained to you in an adequate way. Our estimated growth rate next year is 1.5%. That allows us a 4.5% deficit. So we're below that limit by 0.25% and we're allowing a certain margin in case of unforeseen circumstances. With the beginning of the crisis, the vast majority of countries have been identified for higher deficits and higher debt, to give an injection to the economy and this has produced results. It's a case everywhere. I won't tell you European countries, because you objected to what Britain is, what Germany is, what France is. But here in BiH, for example, in 2007 the budget was 0.6 in 2010 was 4.2; Montenegro 6.7, surplus, then 4.9 deficit in 2010; there was a similar situation with us. Serbia has dealt well with the crisis in this regard. The adjustment of the economy without major cuts has been performed. Just remember the crisis from the end of 2008, withdrawing deposits, calling, chasing banks. Today's savings are at a record high. What's amazing is that we're the only one in my knowledge in Europe who's managed to improve the image, the blood count of our economy in the eyes of foreign investors. I will now try quickly to read you long-term credit ratings, standards "en purs" for countries in the environment and, of course, for Serbia. What's going on? Croatia, 21 December 2010 – credit rating reduced. Slovenia, 20 October 2011 – reduced. Macedonia, 1 May 2009, credit rating downgraded. BiH, 30 November 2011 - reduced. Montenegro, 31 March 2010 – reduced. Hungary, 17 November – reduced. Hungary, 30 March 2009 – reduced. Romania, November 10th 2008 - decreased. Bulgaria, 30 October 2008 – reduced. Greece, 14 January 2009, 16 December 2009, 27 April 2010, 29 March 2011, 9 May 2011, 13 June 2011 and 27 June 2011 – each time a scale lower, so reduced. Serbia, 16 March 2011 - increased. That's the facts. Should we be concerned about a public debt approaching the 45% limit of gross domestic product? First, it needs to be clarified that this is the limit that we set for ourselves in order to avoid excessive borrowing. On the other hand, the public debt of Germany and France is over 80%. If you look at the euro-zone countries and EU countries, over 60% are everywhere in almost every country. This budget, as I have already said, preserves the standard of those who are threatened, so those who are employed with low incomes, pensioners, it preserves stability, because these are data that rely on what follows in the 2011 budget and enables some growth in the future, of course when circumstances in the world allow it. Serbia is not an island, so the crisis that took place in Europe and the euro zone in the form of the letter doubles, first in 2008 and 2009 is a huge decline, in 2010 and in the beginning of 2011 a certain decline. It's a fall that has been happening all over Europe and Serbia has followed such a trend. We, unfortunately, have no opportunity to stand out and have an economy that is completely independent of our environment. But besides, in 2011, we have a stagnation of private and public spending, which is good for stability, but also economic growth, which is primarily based on investment growth and this growth in investment, so the total investments in Serbia in this year are bigger than all other former SFRY countries combined. To some extent, growth is also based on export growth. How connected we are to the environment is clearly telling us this data. We cannot expect 2012 to be a year of too much growth, but this is an indicator to which we are dependent on how vulnerable we are, and it is also an indicator of what direction to look at future economic development. We export 80% of our products to the EU countries and countries closest to the environment and want it or not, whether we like it or not, Europe is our destiny. We are tied to the European continent, we are tied to the European economy. No one can convince privates to export to EU countries if it is not worth it or to export to China, India, Brazil if it is not worth it. The state did not regulate our economic relations with Europe, but it was arranged by people who deal with the economy because it is most worth exporting to where they export. The same thing about imports is similar. This is why Europe is our destiny and thank God that it is because Europe is the most prosperous part of the world, no matter how many flaws it has and the flaws we see every day. One more thing and I'm done. So what also enables and encourages development in the next period are 4% investment. So we're coming into a situation where what is running costs is financed by current incomes, and what investment is funded by this deficit. In this sense, since moral borrowing is mentioned today, it is morally justified to be in charge, because these investments will bring the greatest benefit to future generations and will raise the capacity of our economy in the future. Also, there has been an increase in agricultural yields of nine billion dinars. I think that agriculture is under-exploited and I see that the measures taken by Minister Petrovic deliver results and I think that in the future we can expect an increase in agricultural exports and more significant ones, which would help us and that we have a slightly higher budget and then we give a little more here or there that naively some colleagues are trying to represent it today. So we have a budget that preserves the standard of our citizens, provides wages and pensions, which is very important. They're not people from outer space, they're our citizens. They pay the bills, they have their children, their grandchildren, and of course we have to provide funds for it. He protects the stability of the economy doesn't owe us too much, he's very skillfully balanced, he's not looking for funds on the side, he's looking for a gobber. Also, as I said, this budget encourages and develops, among other things, through the investments I've listed. That's why I'm sure we need to adopt this budget, get out of politics, that this debate could take up to 12 hours tonight, but we couldn't have a better budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65179	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not wanting to compromise with Mr. Vukkovic, and why is this budget realistic to Mr. Vukkovic? Why? Explain to me. Because he was proposed by DS Mirko Cvetkovic, because he was well defended by Aleksandar Vlahovic or you or what are the preconditions for a budget being realistic? The budget is only real because it expresses our cruel reality. This reality is neither you nor I nor we should be proud. These are our defeats and these are very, very bad perspectives expressed in the figures and numbers that you and I are going to talk about. What difference does it make, dear fellow workers of the Belgrade department store, what kind of credit rating is this country? What do the employees of Kostana, Jumka or any other stormy company like Macedonia's credit rating? They expect the 2012 budget to give them a chance. There's no way for them here. Neither will they be seen socially nor will they be seen to the work. No one else will, dear colleague Vukkovic, 30 years of employment, no one needs them anymore. And the very government that proposed this budget, and you'll vote for it to turn your head or go on the road when workers come before their ministries or government to strike, protest or exercise their rights. The reality, unfortunately, is harsh and for the SRS, is that we change reality so that we convert healthy and quality reality into numbers and figures. You are talking about the need, a little more reform, Mr. Vlahovic says, we are expected for reforms. He's talking about some radical cuts. What is it that qualify this government as the government that made a single radical cut? You've dealt with tycoons who, as you've heard, owe billions of dollars to the republican budget. Did you cancel the public agencies? Have you dealt adequately with problems in public procurement, corruption? Did you really solve problems in health care, in school, in education, in the judiciary? These are the radical cuts this country expects. Which you've been offering and promising for the last ten years. And after ten, eleven years, you've been telling us again about the needs of reform. How long are we going to listen? How many decades longer should DS and G17+ be in power to implement reforms? How many of those pockets or accounts do they need to be harder and fuller, so that these reforms can be implemented? So this real one we have to look at in a very, very different way. In one way that really is real. But I'm sorry Mr. Cvetkovic isn't here right now just because I'd like to ask him something. The night the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose prime minister, if you remember well, was chosen in that old hall, was sitting in front of me as I spoke on behalf of the SRS, Mr Cvetkovic, Mr Dacic and Mr Dinkic. The SRS also said that politics in Serbia is at the height of its distaste. However, what qualified this debate today has definitely overcome that lack of taste. I'd like to ask, this very prime minister in absentia, who's right about this budget? Mr. Vlahovic or Mr. Dinkic. I have to admit for the SRS this gentleman from the front row, he's gone now, he's a revelation. I think his name is Mr. Dinkic. The real revelation, I just don't know what that mind has been for the past ten, eleven years? I am deeply convinced that you knew about Mr Dinkic, for the last ten years, so that you would hire him and bring all your mind into your laws, acts, papers and government efforts to live ten times better today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65181	I'm just going to ask you to express your admiration in a way that doesn't degrade this tall home.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65182	You know what Mrs. Djukuć – Dejanovic, you should have responded to the mockery of a man whose ministers sit in the government and spit on this budget, although his people in the government voted for that budget and he will vote for that budget. You should have listened to Mr Dinkic laughing at you and this congregational majority that he belongs to, so the reaction was lagging behind, and now you're bothered by my admiration for him. You know, he's still a man of capacity, and if admiration were to fall short, I think Mr Dinkic would really be handicapped. And it really is a mockery that a man who spent ten years each fee, a fee for using natural goods, because he dominated finance. Instead of being incomes, let's say, the local self-government is turning into the revenues of the republican budget now sharing the mind on the need to abolish taxis, the compensation that this should be shifted to local self-governments, etc. And I really expected your reaction back then. It's a real humiliation to the congregation. It's the humiliation of the Assembly of you as the first man of the Assembly, it's the humiliation of the nation, we're all imbeciles and fools and we don't know what's been going on and who's been running this country for the last 11 years. And now you need the same one to teach us that this isn't good, so they will provide us with a better and different life. That's right. But, since I don't have enough time, I have to get here a little Mr. Cvetkovic, since, here you are, now I am asking you to answer me when this budget is right, Mr. Dinkic or Mr. Vlahovic. Here, I beg you to tell me when you're done or when you're done talking to the MPs about what it is and how it is. Now, this is for the SRS pointless and stale. What you have translated into this document, Mr Cvetkovic, and this is a real picture of that so-called European Serbia. And if you were to compare this Mr. Cvetkovic's document and what it says and the perspective we expect in 2012 based on it, to what you were saying when you were putting out your exposés, that would be, I don't know how to express myself without insulting this high house as the president just said. Now, you're very casual, I see, you're laughing. You know that this budget, not one budget, has been chosen more casually by your majority. But not Mr. Cvetkovic because those who will vote for him, spit on the budget, care for teachers, educators, doctors, doctors, pensioners and employees of the public sector, but because they know that with such budgets they will have more money at their disposal, than they have to finance their political activities from temporary funding, and that's why they will vote and they don't care about the second half of the year. Everything they're interested in, they're interested in the May moon, when they're not early, or if, and you're expecting them all together, elections. What is it, Mr. Cvetkovic, is characterized by this budget, you've been talking about the whole two minutes of the budget. You say, Mr. Cvetkovic, the deficit will be invested in capital investments, and something similar Mr. Vlahovic said, business activities are financed from the deficit. Mr. Vlahovicu, you should have heard Bajram Omeragic, he is impressed by the economic activities financed from the budget, especially in the Raška area, where he comes from, but you weren't here at the moment. I would like to thank you for all the investments and business activities in southern Serbia that you finance from the deficits of the Republic of Serbia's budget. You know, Mr. Cvetkovic, why did you say this, just because the level of these capital investments is the same as the deficit. Do you know what that funding of capital investments will look like? Almost described by Mr Milutin Mrkonjic in your place. When we removed money for capital investment on budget rebalancing, you know what he said, yes, we went through Serbia, we found that 10% of the projects were largely not realised by creating a condition to take off the money. That's how you'll take this money off, because when you get into a situation, unfortunately yours, and unfortunately for a long time you won't be in that situation, to choose whether to pay the interest and pay the principal or to make your way, Mr. Cvetkovic, you'll be paying off the debts you've charged to this country on your neck, and for the same, the rich citizens haven't received much. Say, Mr. Cvetkovic, that discretionary expenditures are reduced to a minimum, and why didn't you do that in all the five budgets you've adopted so far, because the SRS has always suggested that you reduce discretionary expenditures. You didn't, Mr. Cvetkovic, because it was a source of funding for your political parties and your political partners through public procurement and abuse. Now, when you were forced against the wall, you gave up discretionary reasons, but very perfiduous. Where the Republic's budget is narrowed down, they're gone. Where, Mr. Vlahovicu, the own revenues of the budget users, are there and there, there are, you know very well where they are. It's very interesting that you've thought of it now, because since it hasn't occurred to you before, how come you didn't think of that saving before, why didn't you cancel a bunch of agencies and offices, why didn't you think of that? It would be a radical cut, it would be the abolition of discretionary rights, those for which you gave guarantees through this budget, so the public company "Srbigas" will get a guarantee of 400m euros to be in debt, and at the same time will deal with losses and while doing business with losses, the managers will receive millions of dinar payments. It is a cruel reality and a denial of discretionary rights in Serbia. You say you continue to support the economy. What economy, Mr. Cvetkovic? The economy, which you say is inequitable, the economy that you say will stagnate in the following year or that economic activities will fall, that the number of unemployed will grow, where industrial production depends on whether one or two high furnaces work in one company or threaten to shut down the other too? The economy you've reduced to an investment called "Fiat"? Unfortunately, I don't have any more time. As far as the SRS is concerned, this budget really represents a cruel and disgusting reality, and I am happy, along with my colleagues from the SRS, which is the last budget that you have presented to the Assembly and the public, and I hope that the citizens in the next elections will cross with the policy of European delusions and illusions and that they will all descend together to the country and that we will focus on ourselves and our own problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65183	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Cvetkovic, speaking of the draft budget, we could say that the government has missed another chance to change the course of economic policy, show determination and start a fallen economy, strengthen agriculture, invest more resources in health, education, social protection. However, we could also say that the government has not missed yet once again to show that it is there to protect the interests of foreign companies, such as the Fiat, Beneton, other companies, the interests of the banking sector, the IMF and the EU. The government also sent a message through the draft budget that due to the IMF's interest, it would be ready to violate the Budget System Law, that it would meet the IMF's ultimatums to make harmful decisions by citizens and by the Serbian economy, not by the EU's economy, but by the Serbian economy. The draft budget also tells us that by not giving up on politics, the EU has no alternative, the country will continue to collapse, not only in territorial terms but in economic terms. To move forward, the budget is so projected, that it is unsustainable and that its rebalancing is expected in the first half of the year, primarily expected to fall in income and expenditure growth. Tax incomes are unrealistically optimistic, you expect an increase in VAT revenue, although you still have a problem with its payment. The drop in customs revenues continues, up to 14.5% as a direct consequence of the implementation of the transitional trade agreement. The expected growth is coming from excise duties based on their increase, will reflect the inflation tax, and thus the budget drop on this basis. The expenditure on interest payments is increasing, so it will amount to 59 billion 197m dinars, which is about 14 billion more than this year, and by as much as 30 billion more than it was last year. It can also be concluded that EU pre-accession assistance, which is expected and is actually constantly announced, will go to the greatest extent possible to comply with EU standards and to finance projects in Serbia carried out by EU firms, such a single project is the Željev Bridge. It must also be noted that those budget allocations that remained unchanged that they are less in real terms by, at least 8% of the amount of inflation. The subsidies to agriculture amount to around 20 billion. However, we must stress that subsidies cannot accompany the losses suffered by agriculture under the Transitional Trade Agreement. The ratification of the Transitional Trade Agreement reduced customs duties on agricultural and food products coming from the EU. These are products that come from countries that allocate much larger subsidies to agriculture, so that these products are competitive on the domestic market and are more competitive than domestic products. The government doesn't do anything to protect the domestic producer, it destroys it. If it destroys it, it automatically means less income, it means more unemployed, it means more inflow to social isolation. But when you talk about liberalising trade with the EU, you talk mainly about saving Serbia's economy. However, you simply keep some facts and some numbers quiet. It should be open and said, what does the EU bring to Serbia? What does Brussels offer Serbia? And as it seems in practice, we can give an example from the environment. Since 2000, Croatia has started applying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to date, imports of agricultural goods to Croatia have increased twice. Over the past decade, the regime there has singled out as much as 6.6 billion euros through subsidies to the development of agricultural production. However, the result was a drop in agricultural production of only 341m euros, so 6.6 billion were invested, and the jump was recorded by only 341m euros. Simply put, the money was dropped. That's what Serbia does. To repeat, subsidies cannot wash out the losses, i.e. the damage caused to farmers by the Transitional Trade Agreement. And that's a fact. Also, when we talk about the agrarian budget, even the agrarian budget, it's still very small. Partly because of the overall difficult economic situation, and partly, as we could see, because of the misallocation of these budgets. Agriculture is a profitable branch. However, the government does nothing to increase this profit, but rather makes decisions that threaten its destruction and collapse, or reduction of profits. We also have one characteristic example of the economy of how the government behaves. Instead of disbursing the economy with various fees, considering reducing the income tax above the EU tax average, the government simply creates an unhealthy business environment, and then allegedly the same economy it destroys helps them by providing them with the possibility of applying for subsidised liquidity loans or approving funds to settle amounts for subsidised interest rates. You have to be honest and say that the biggest benefit of all is the banks. Let me explain. So, the government subsidises the interest rate to 4% on an annual basis to an unpaid part of the loan. According to the government's regulation, the government transfers the amount of interest to banks or to lease houses in advance for each year, instead of the government, like its counterparts in other countries, affecting banks to lower interest rates, it does the opposite. It not only agrees with such rules of the game, but brings out regulations that directly help banks make even more profit. Finally, as it turns out, and as this draft budget tells us, the citizens of Serbia are paying, i.e. the funds are being allocated from Serbia's budget. You tried your best to make the state look like a bank. You're the ones who are willing to charge the state on green interest in banks who have no reason to take those interest rates for credit to the economy or the population, because the state agrees with enormous interest rates. Why don't you think about increasing the tax on bank profits? There's a chance you have a bigger flow of funds into your budget. No, you have no political courage and determination to take such a step. The state of Serbia would not be the first country to do so under the conditions of the economic crisis. Mr Cvetkovic, the prime minister really needs exceptional courage and a little impudence to make a proposal for a budget that, under conditions of severe economic crisis, in conditions of unemployment, poverty continues to provide for the allocation of one-off funds for numerous agencies, administrations, directorates, parallel state institutions, budgetary parasites. I'd like to, Prime Minister, if you could count all the agencies, directors, budget-funded offices, which are financed by taxpayers' money at this point. Probably couldn't, and no one in this room could do it. Now we could ask one question, if you're not able to do it, how is that possible if you think they're an important part of the state administration? They are important to the government, however, not to the citizens. How do you explain to a man who's been unemployed for years, how to explain to a businessman whose company goes bankrupt, how to explain to a farmer who can't from his work why it's important for this country to finance, say, the Antidoping Agency, the National Capital Assessment Agency? How do we explain that we have the Water Directorate, but we also have the Water Budget Fund? How are you going to explain to the army of unemployed, poor, disfigured, fallen economy that you are right, not one Germany that has only six agencies. How are you going to explain that there's money for the agencies, and there's a reduction in social protection allocations by about two billion dinars? How will you explain to Serbian citizens that there is money for agencies, and that the NSZ transfers are shrinking drastically. They're almost halved. How do you explain that under the conditions of the deficit of the state, the taxpayers' money for, say, the Office for Co-operation with civil society, and it's only one in a series established by the government's regulation, there are really many? Do you really believe that anyone in this country will understand the fact that taxpayers' money is spent on collecting and distributing information of importance for the work of civil society organisations? Well, of course no one will understand. Also, I'd like you to answer how you're going to convince these citizens that it's justified that their money, taxpayers' money within the Ministry of Economy, among other things, is now being spent on hiring a production house that will monitor the work of this ministry. What are the results? In this economy, they pay attention, to remain recorded for history, to spend taxpayers' money on a production house that will record it all. It is insolent to suggest such a thing, or to point out in the draft budget. Remember, Serbia today is a country with a very large number of unemployed, with a very large number of poor people, with very low average wage, with a large number of bankrupt companies. These are just some of the reasons why your claim that social responsibility is embedded in this proposal is more accurate. These are just some of the reasons why your claim of rational consumption of public resources is not true. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party, of course, cannot support this draft budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65185	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. You've got 16 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65186	Mr. Cvetkovic, I must praise you. You were all attacked today. I was just embarrassed. Why should I praise you? You didn't realize people, Mr. Cvetkovic did everything as agreed with the International Monetary Fund, as agreed with Brussels, because little Brussels says – to your feet, you go there and get tasks and Mr. Cvetkovic has done it. I commend you, Mr. Cvetkovic, for jumping this election budget. This is the election budget. If you'd gone to temporary funding, it would have been problematic, then the sponsors would have to open up. This is how you've done the surgery that pleases you. Why is it satisfying? You said 70% of this budget on the bulky side, those are the obligations prescribed by law, and no one can dispute that. There are also salaries and pensions etc. Paying and pensions can't go up with the cost of living and what's really going down every day, that's another question. However, you amended the Budgetary System Act, so in a few years you planned how it would be a alignment, so you took those two criteria. As much as it takes to meet these needs, pensions, wages, something small of that social, it's primary. The other thing is, you've reduced discretionary expenditures to the necessary extent, i.e. you've moved to local self-governments, and local self-governments since New Year's, will pave the way for a fund for capital investment in Vojvodina to expect elections, that your local officials prove themselves, and that in the case of a subsidy, etc., if someone wants to protest, that they're not coming to Belgrade to stop traffic like these cops here today, they're making some problems here all day, so one police in uniform is providing the government, and the other police in uniform are protesting in front of the government. Mr. Cvetkovic, you can see that today is the safest house of the National Assembly. If you'd gone to the government, you wouldn't know which cops you could talk to. In the meantime, you'll make these 600, the unit that needs to finish the dirty work in northern Kosovo and Metohija. I hope you're also counting on extremely good results based on this regulation that you've brought under Angela Merkel's orders, which is about controlling the crossing of the administrative line towards the AP, etc. So you completed your mission, Mr. Cvetkovic. I don't know why these guys are criticizing you. Who's satisfied with this budget? tycoons. Why? They don't have to pay back anything, they don't have to, and they'll ask themselves again what the future government will look like. Who's still satisfied? Organized crime, Mr. Cvetkovic. They're too happy. Why? The black economy doesn't exist, gray, according to the fiscal council, it's plumbers that fix houses, so we had the whole science of what traffic is, and what is additional value. You know, great sense. Who, Mr. Cvetkovic, will still be pleased? Anything that means a mirrored Brussels administration in Serbia. These are special categories of civil servants and those in these agencies and others who will be well. Why, Mr. Cvetkovic? Only three categories see Serbia in the EU, although the EU does not see us in its composition. Mr Cvetkovic, you received an answer on December 9th that Serbia did not get candidate status to start talks, not membership. No, it's a distant membership, membership will never be. No, for the start of the conversation. You made a deal to put in IPA funds with about 180 and some million allegedly euros. Keep an eye on it, that's only true if this constitution passes. If this constitution fails, it is not valid. However, there is something that will continue to apply throughout 2012, which is the bill of financing the government's liabilities of 510 billion dinars. Mr. Vlahovic, do you know what 510 is? The total revenue of the budget should be 750, and 510 is the financing account. Do you know what that is? Who's gonna pay for that? Who's gonna pay for that? To pin these on, depending on the size of the suitcase, depends on the function. Mrs. Dejanovic, you are fighting for social justice, but Bajatovic has 1,350,000 a month's salary, and the state must be in debt to 70 billion dinars for "Serbia", out of which 40 billion for debts alone. (President: I would ask you to leave the frustrations to Mr. Bayatovic for another chance. You are truly frustrated and there is no topic not to mention Mr. Bajatovic. He is your fellow Messenger, the People's Messenger, a successful businessman, and I ask you not to do so. I'm celebrating today. You see I'm in a phase of boasting? Please, Mrs. Dejanovic, then you get out of the budget of these 70 billion. I don't mind if you throw out the 70 billion, but if it's that 70 billion, here's an example of how it can be saved. Do you know how many hungry mouths you can eat during the month with 1,350,000? Don't let me talk to you. So, basically, we have a mangoose budget. They figured out how to fix it, so the subsidies, a little capital investment, would be in the bar to get them promoted. How? To end the election. But there are some parts that won't be in the budget. You can't quite see these funds and project loans, Mr. Cvetkovic. In project loans Mr. Dusan Petrovic will employ the entire agricultural college. That's what they're going to do in the villages for a safe voice. They announced 30,000 dinars per nursing home. Do you know what will happen in these villages, where no one has visited them for 10 years, when a young agronomist comes and brings 30,000 dinars to his hands? We know what you've prepared. We've got insiders, too. We've got the tape recorders, so we'll set you up there when you're making a deal, so it's all on tape. We know what you're up to. You don't care about the financial year 2012, you're just looking at how to finish the election, to win the EU again in Serbia. You're just looking at how to finish the election, win the EU again in Serbia. No, he won't. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I'm telling you a big secret. In the next election, Serbia wins in Serbia, you know. It will not win the EU and let you know in time, but something has not been known with the EU since 15 January how it will continue. But be careful, be careful about Kim. Be very careful. Take care of what you do with this money. I'll keep people informed of the mangoon budget in every place. A budget for fraud. First of all, you're going to put your pensions on the line, and apparently some social benefits, that's some obligations. You've heard some who are in power today, who say -- a bad budget, but we're holding it for pensions, we support it for wages. What pay? In the state service, 250,000 employees. I hope you'll open up another hotel about the cost of the state. I don't know, Mr. Cvetkovic, in what state does this make hotels? Can you find a country? Is Germany making hotels? The German government is making hotels, please? Last time I suggested we take Mr. Dinkic out to America to get America out of the world crisis. That way you'd pull them out, nothing in America would come together. That would've been torn to shreds. Even if Dacic had organized a NATO pact, we wouldn't even have the uniforms, do you understand? They wouldn't even have uniforms. Although Dacic announces his resignation, Mr. Cvetkovic, since in the morning these officers will come to ask you a question there, where are their salaries? Mangoop budget when, that's when it comes to billing. I can't tell you about the banks. I did it seven years ago. (President: Could you perhaps find another term, to say the same, not to use a term that may characterize some trade ministries from previous, earlier periods? What would you have added? Did you answer for the discussion, perhaps? I didn't notice you raised your hand. (President: I give my word, not you and I are obliged to take care of the atmosphere of work. Please use more polite terms, not dispute your right to express the beliefs you have. It's your right. ) Of course, I am also in charge – agency, bank, mangoons in power, fifth column in power. Choose which term doesn't suit you? The fifth column is in power, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. All of Serbia knows that. The whole of Serbia knows this is a co-production with the IMF, how it can succeed in the next six months. (President: I think you're tired, and it's too late for you, and that's why I use such terminology. What am I? (President: Tired. Tired? I'm not tired of you. I'm happy to do this job. You have no idea. I can't wait for the SRS to come to power. Do you have any idea how many empty barracks there are that need to be retrained, if there's room for retraining? I'll make sure there's room for retraining. That's what we're talking about, it's a problem, not an epochal pension increase of 1.2%. We limited the salary growth in the public sector, so we said -- GDP, consumer basket, so go to me, come to me, etc. Now you're gonna make the banks charge their contributions. You didn't want two years for those pregnant entrepreneurs to solve the question of payment of contributions, and now you've taken before the election. You remembered. Now you're criticizing the agencies that you made them. He was just criticizing a whole system of public finances, and he made a system of finance. Although he hasn't told us where the money is, those 1.00 euros free of charge for every citizen? Not to mention the money from Cyprus, Mr. Cvetkovic, you know that, I guess. It's a pain in the ass. What can I say about that budget of yours? Preparation for another scam, by system – hold the water until the masters leave. Take care of what you do, I warn you in time. Take care of those who voted and agreed to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. Take all of you who promised what you promised. You see how much you've destroyed public finances. Now there must be a pension tax of 60% from the Republic. Where are your contributions? You didn't want to read. You've designed a reduction in the standard of living here. This is where you projected your release, but in a modest number, I must say. You've designed it all. Who's to blame? The global economic crisis. Oh, that's not possible. What does the global economic crisis have to do with it? There's a problem in the way. We lost 300m euros in the first year due to a transitional trade agreement. The second damage that has arisen has lost economic motive for us to create the goods that come under EU dumping prices. As long as you follow the EU, you fall into ruin. We're trying to stop you and invite citizens. There's going to be a people, people. You don't understand. The people must happen because politics has become powerless. The relationship between political parties has become powerless to articulate political processes. But there will be a people. More people go into the container instead of Maxie. You mumble, you talk about some epic results, and lists, and ratings lists. Go to the cops and convince them of the rating lists. Your Fiscal Council says – the change of the Law on Police Salaries will have a negative impact in 2012. You're swallowing it. You know you do, but you have to give it to the police to finally preserve this regime, to finish another dirty job regarding KIM. That's your goal, and that's why you're going to have some regulations now, who knows what you're going to do. Who will take the money from the insurance coming from Kosovo? Who's that? Who's the one that calculated it? How did some so generously accept the budget cuts in those ministries where they dominate? Democrats did not, they increased the funds and increased Petrovic's in Dulic. For what? Because of the election campaign. What's that gonna look like in practice? Like yours in Bora, to make a fountain for him, to put in an antifreeze. He put in an antifreeze. It's a real pituitary. He thinks that people will live on, he won't, for God's sake. Wrong way. Dear citizens, you know, Serbia should win Serbia. Thank God, the only party in those positions is the SRS, and all the others are pro-European. Remember, if all these parties had written the budget, they would have written the same budget. There's no principle difference between them. Perhaps some dissonant tone would appear for voters to deceive them, as if there was some difference, so now those who hate Tadic will simply love Tomislav Nikolic, or those who hate the Wolf will now love Chad. It's the same policy. Pro-European policy. The policy should be defeated in Serbia. If this policy is defeated in Serbia, and it is clear to everyone that Serbia has no alternative, we have a chance and you will see what the budget will be like. I hope, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that in these 30 seconds you can arrive in the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65187	There are no more MPs who have applied for the word on the lists of candidates reported. I'm asking the proposing's representative, Mr. Cvetkovic, if he wants a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65188	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I am pleased to bring an end to our principled budget debate and these laws. I listened carefully to remarks and ideas. I think we'll have more opportunities to talk about it when the amendments come. I'll look back at a few things that seemed to me or significant, or if not significant, then at least interesting and worth mentioning. At the very beginning, a folk proverb said that to describe the situation says – incomes are falling, expenditures are growing, and the deficit is stable. I was thinking, is it really possible that something like that might happen? If our income starts to drop and our expenditures are growing, I'd ask her to show me how to keep the deficit stable. It's just, mathematically, I can't imagine it. Another says the final accounts have not been delivered to parliament. That's just not true. We've been delivering final accounts to Parliament for the last five, six years. It hasn't been delivered in the past year, but it's been adopted in the government and it needs to be forwarded. The final accounts are here, and you have the auditor, his opinion. So, they may not have been able to attend the plenary debate, but they certainly do exist. I believe that any MP who wishes can take them out of the archives and look at them. There was a question about customs and the problem of their decline. I think for the sake of truth it should be said that customs are falling because it is the desire of this government to have as much dutyless territory as possible. So, they're dropping in on any signing of a bilateral agreement with a country on free trade. Of course, both with the EU and with the Russian Federation, with Kazakhstan. We have just recently reduced, i.e. abolished customs duties on imports of crude oil, which will have a negative effect on customs revenues. But remember, it has a very positive effect on the price of fuel that will be found and that citizens here will pay. So, falling customs would take as a positive trend that will stabilise prices and allow citizens to reach products at lower prices. There were some questions that I really believe come out of misunderstanding, either because you don't understand the methodology, or maybe because there's no information about any history that was. In this context, I would like to explain why the transfers of employment services are smaller now than they were in this budget, because someone could, as one MP concluded, is now a reduced concern about the employment of people. In fact, the truth is quite different and very trivial. In the earlier position of that service were old debts that were not paid from the earlier period, and then we predicted them. In the meantime, they are paid and now this new amount is smaller, but not smaller because less money is foreseen, but simply because there are no more old debts that have been paid off. There were also questions about wages and their real fall. If the formula that wages are accounted for is that they increase by an inflation rate plus half of GDP, it is simply mathematically impossible for them to actually fall. Their real fall would be to be indexed for an index below the inflation rate, not at a level plus GDP. This may be where the whole story is mixed with the fact that the moment is calculated by an increase in prices. He's accounted for since the last moment he was previously accounted for. So we've already indexed their level with September, and now we index from September to March, that's March, and then from March they'll index for the next September. But simply put, the formula that was given makes it impossible for them to actually fall, they will be realistically identical and will be slightly larger to the extent that GDP is growing. There was also one remark that when there was a payment of the debts then they would be paid off and they would not be paid for the expenses and then they would not have the funds. I must say, it is a lack of understanding of budget accounting, but MPs are not expected to know. So the principal's payments are not part of the budget at all. They're the element of what's called below the line, that's what doesn't budget and don't tang expenditure. The expenditure is one thing, and the payment is another thing. These are parallel flows which are, of course, important to ensure funding, but are not part of the same story, nor can they be substituted and mixed, that you transfer payments to expenditures, or expenditures in payments. You mentioned my cabinet and the relationship between the people who, as you say, are constantly employed and those with whom there is a contract. I have to tell you, unfortunately, but maybe it's not, unfortunately, it's all over the place, I guess, that no cabinet has permanent employees. All those people who work in the cabinet are tied to the cabinet chief's office. The moment my mandate stops, they are automatically on the street, without any rights. I'm entitled to about six months, ministers are entitled to six months, all my cabinet members are going out on the street, and they're going to have to ask for a job. I'm sorry, but it's a regulation. Just to tell you how it works. Don't associate what it is all the time, some is happy, some is unhappy, I don't think there's a lot of happy people working in the cabinet. There is one thing where I really disagree with what has been exposed by some MPs of the SRS, which is the link between borrowing, production and economic activity. There's no borrowing here related to creating some objects that will carry out economic activities. So, borrowing here is about infrastructure. Business activities will be organised by private businesses, entrepreneurs, and the state cannot finance job creation in this way. It will create a good environment with its orders, but certainly borrowing and production, there we could not give a sign of equality, at least that's the concept of this government, and I think every other one that looks at the free market economy as a basic concept. In the end, I would like to say that we have one very good thing that makes me think that maybe the representatives of the SRS will vote for this budget, which is that their main objections are basically already adopted and they are not even aware of it. In fact, in its amendments this morning, the government downloaded the largest number, for example, of the Serbian guarantees, mentioned here as huge. They're almost halved. Also, there's no plane that's been given here as something that's very embarrassing, etc. I'm not saying it's a shame that they didn't read it, so if they did, we wouldn't have said it, because they probably didn't have time. Simply because their main criticism went that way, and the government has already accepted it before the criticisms came, then I call on them to vote together with the others and support the budget for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-26-0.u65189	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the lists of candidates reported are no longer interested in the word, and neither are those who have not used their rights under Article 96. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 to 10 of the agenda. I thank you, Mr. President, for you and your associates. Dear Members of the People, I thank you for your participation in the work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
