ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58639	Dear colleagues, for the terrible tragedy that has struck Norway and the Norwegian people, I ask you to pay our respects to all the victims for a moment of silence. Praise them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, the session is attended by 81 MPs, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 95 MPs in the hall, i.e. there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the meetings were prevented from being attended by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Aleksandra Jankovic and Mladen Grujic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set by Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, exclusively for Monday, therefore, and beyond those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft agenda decision set out in the Government's request to hold an emergency session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by a representative of the promoter Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure and energy. With a call from the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was called upon by the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 248. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the holding of the ninth extraordinary session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see for the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 the following agenda was set: D n e n e d: We are moving to work on the agenda. You have received a proposal for a decision to elect the president and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the government. You've received a report from the Industry Committee. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to article 193 of article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be distributed as follows: to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia, one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; to the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; to the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; to the parliamentary group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; to the parliamentary group DSS- Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; to the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; to the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; to the parliamentary group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; to the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and to the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Dragan Stevanovic, the SRS parliamentary group, and we have no other notices. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single review of the proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Energy Council of the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposing representative, Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure and energy want a word? No, I don't. Do the officials of the committees want a word? I mean the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58640	It is impossible not to comment on this proposal for one key reason. So, the reason is not personal, when we look at these solutions that are proposed here, as formal and contentary. So we have a proposal, before us, these members of the Council are elected for a period of five years. The previous election was in 2005. It's 2011 and July. So the first and basic question that is being asked – what happened in the meantime? Why did the proposal not come before this congregation to elect a new Council at the time when the deadline for members of the Council expired? I would understand that the deadline would be broken because it would wait for the adoption of the Energy Act, which is on the agenda of this session, so that new members of the Council would be elected by procedure and by the rules provided for by this law. You don't do that. You council members choose by the old rules, no competitions. This law, which you propose and which is being adopted today in this assembly, I think for the other day will be adopted, you predict a contest. It's a matter of elemental logic. If you've waited this long to select members of the council, why the government's phone sessions, why quickly put this item on the agenda? For what? Of course, the answer is clear, it imposes itself, you do it for it, the public has to hear it, that's the only reason I answered for the word, you do it because you don't choose board members under the new law, so you don't have to go to the competition. Now they will be elected for five years and five years these members of the council will be members of the council who are not elected to the competition. The election of members of the council through the competition is better than that of the solution that was before. I'm going to be very honest and I'm going to tell you straight. So, the solution that the government had presided over, the government in which the DSS had a majority, was a worse solution when it came to selecting council members than what you suggested. Here, we've come to some point where I'm going to commend you. But then the logical question arises – if that's the case, if you already have an idea to do something that's one step better than what was before, so you've already exceeded the deadlines for selecting council members, which is a fact, which you can't argue that these deadlines have passed, which is why you didn't get the strength to choose these new members of the council by choosing how this bill foresees? It's a very simple question. Secondly, I wouldn't go into personal solutions in detail. It is clear to me that you have simply repeated some personal solutions through this proposal, which have been before, which serve us that most of us in the government at the time, because you have accepted and realized that certain solutions that were then proposed are sufficiently professional and well-founded to be repeated, even in one political constitution, which does not correspond to the DSS. We're very happy about it. There's only one other problem, which procedure and the way this is done obviously leaves a question mark. Now, let's get things straight, and neither we are complaining about our human resources, nor would we be particularly sorry that you changed it if you found better, and evidence that you could find better would have been hidden exclusively and only in the application of the provisions of the new law that speaks of the competition. I don't see how else you could have done it, and if we had a guarantee that you'd found better solutions. This is not how we trust you, regardless of the quality of a few names that are here. I don't know if we should go into specific examples, but I wanted to avoid it, but if a man is talking, he's just doing it. Here, you have, let's say, an example of people who had something to do with this story, but we're not convinced that the relationship established with this story about the Energy Council is so good that these people would find themselves as a member of the council. Take, for example, a man whose biographical data speak, I won't say the name on purpose, there's no point, but whose biographical data say he was at the Ministry of Forests and Water Management, and then he worked at the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, and then on some legal affairs from 2000 to 2004, and he was at the secretary's post at the Ministry of Mining and Energy in 2007, of course as a lawyer, that's what the man ended up, so now it's supposed to qualify him to be, no less, than a member of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't matter who brought this man, which is a political party, it could have been the DSS, it doesn't matter at all, and it doesn't matter right now that you know it's not, it's someone else. The question is very principled – what were the criteria? Who was doing this? Is the same system applied, the same criteria as when you wrote the Energy Act? I commended you for one provision. That provision I commended you is the basis of my discussion now on this issue. I can't help but mention some other things that aren't good and what the newly elected members of the Energy Council will need to know in their work in the future. First, everyone knows how you wrote the law. She was a task force for lawmaking, so Professor Nikola Rajakovic worked, or led that task force, and the task force was separated from nowhere, they went to hell. In the end, Professor Nikola Rajakovic worked with some lawyers from your ministry. So the law changed and some amazing provisions were rejected. You, for example, spoke in the opening statement and later during the discussion about new efficiency, about administrative persuasion of the road, facilitating the process, and we can see that this is not the case. The energy permit goes from 30 to 60 days, though known, all the time it is known that the energy license is not a building permit, but is only talking about whether the project is energy-compliant with Serbia's energy strategy. Is it necessary 60 days to determine this simple fact? Of course not. Is it necessary to give consent to hydropower plants less than one megawatt? It's a highly controversial issue, because it also agrees with the procedure. Interesting things have been happening so far when it comes to volunteering. Let's say you have one company called "Enervoda" and instead of respecting a strategy of development and energy and cadastre that predicts that the Prepolje hydropower plant can build 22 megawatts, this is where the Enervod company is given to create two smaller hydroelectric power plants that all together have a total power of 15.3. So there's no full capacity utilisation. It doesn't take full advantage of capacity, and the job ends in a magical way, with a company whose background we don't know. If you get this kind of information, there's nothing more you can do than question. I'd like to hear arguments against such suspicions, I'd like to hear them out, but this opens up certain doubts. Let me get back to our main topic. When it comes to criteria, I simply wonder how it is possible for you not to wait another week for this law to come into force, so in September you come to the Serbian Assembly with a proposal on names with members of the Energy Agency? How is that possible? If it's an argument that he's late, it's been months. So what would make a difference? I'm asking another simple question -- I see it's your thing, and will it be in the future while this government lasts? Are you going to set the directors up like that? You want them without a competition, with a party directive, and I don't know how? That's the key question, there's not much discussion. This is something that I answered my word for, and this is something that in itself asks a question that requires an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58641	National Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS really won't dispute the personal credibility of any man on the list of this decision, not because they may not deserve it, but because it's in this situation, in this case less important than what we're going to talk about as the focus of the story. I think the previous speaker touched something that opens up the biggest question of what's going on here and why is it going like this? What we also want to say is that people from the profession of a gentleman who should be president of this council, from a professional point of view, don't really dispute and the SRS thinks that when the energy sector is concerned, the essence of the problem at the moment is not in the agency, but in the ministry, or in the government, which is in its relationship with the energy sector on the one hand indulgence, and on the other hand, in the boastiness and some usurpatory procedures has almost marginalised or completely devised the work and purpose of the existence of this agency. The first thing that is controversial for the SRS is our principled position concerning the agencies that you set up. We believe that both in this sector and through this agency, we are actually hostages of a sick Eurofanatic concept because agencies in Serbia have been established, not because they have their own meaning or that they have justified the purpose of their existence, the agencies have formed in Serbia because it is a common practice in the EU. In Serbia, they did not produce any results and effects. What is good is that some members of the government began to share the opinion of the SRS, which is that agencies are an unconstitutional category, with those people who dispute public agencies really having no credibility to do so because they participate in the authorities that have promoted them, who have allowed them to work and who have not justified any of their activities or divisions to the meaning of their existence. This agency, Mr. Minister, unlike other agencies, is not financed directly from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but this does not mean that it is not funded by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It, due to the services it provides, the activities it has and the actions that will be entrusted to it through the new law, in principle, charges services that will, in the end and the end line, be mirrored by the consumer, so that, in principle, citizens will again finance this agency through the payment of certain other goods and services. What to say about this agency is that they did not boast about money and that the funds they spent in the previous period were less than the ones that were projected. It is also true that the effects of its operation and the meaning of its existence and functioning are precisely smaller than what they should have, or which agency it should have and should have. Now we come to what is a fundamental question here. Why, Mr. Minister, can't we hear from you, as a representative of the government, why is the agency elected according to the old model in the middle of a debate on the new energy law? See what it says here in the explanation: "As the president and the members of the Council have expired on the first term, a choice is proposed for a smooth functioning of the agency. (President: Gentlemen of Parliament, please just a little bit quiet, so we can hear Mr. Stevanović.) ) First of all, Mr. Minister, the mandate of this council has expired. You could have chosen the agency, or advice immediately after the term of office. That's one thing. The second thing, Mr. Minister, see what the Agency has informed us in the report, whose members of the Council today you choose. Since mid-2009, the Agency has been functioning without two members of the Council. Now imagine the credibility of the decisions they made, because instead of five decisions, three people decided, so they no longer needed three votes but only two, if there were. You are now convincing us through this argument that this must happen in order for them to continue to function uninterruptedly. You see how through some banal things you confirm the story and the conclusion of the SRS that this European policy in Serbia has come up with everything. You no longer have a meaningful one procedure, so at least be ashamed to write these things in an explanation. Nope! We really want to know how long it's gonna be like this? We hope until the next election. It doesn't amnest you, it doesn't release your responsibility to behave differently in the next six or seven months. Once again I ask, Mr. Minister, you've been given this as your jurisdiction, as your portfolio, but I ask you why in 2009, the Agency's Council was not filled in, to be legitimate, to have legitimacy, to make decisions that they make, because they're not even a little irrelevant, have their full meaning and meaning? Why do you now convince us that this is necessary for the Agency's Council to function in full terms and terms? The new law, which we are discussing, Mr Aligrudic said, envisions something that you very wisely exploit in the media, which is public competitions. See how miserable and perfiduous you are to run away from it, because public competitions, whatever they are in your hands, insist on a certain kind of public and transparency. See how perfiduous you want to escape because a commission has to be formed, that the government also has its representatives and profession to give its representatives, so that the commission chooses, in accordance with certain principles, members of the Council of this agency. One of the last members of this bill says that all actions taken under the old law will also be valid after the adoption of the new energy law. I hope we hear what you think. I'm not putting that on your mind, maybe you have nothing to do with this, maybe someone else at the Ministry is guilty of all this, but if politics is the cause of this problem, then we really deserve the answer – what's the problem, who's the problem, and where is this problem initiated? It further explains that the Energy Agency has fully achieved the objectives for which it has been established. I repeat, we don't want to challenge the credibility of the Agency's people, but we don't think this is the case. Here's why, Mr. Grouchy. Today, when you are dealing with energy analysis in Serbia and when you have a critical attitude towards the state of energy in Serbia, one of the first problems is price policy, and energy sector price policy is rightly driven by this agency. Why is politics a price problem? Because prices in the energy sector are not an economic category but are, above all, a political and social category. Then the agency, which deals with these prices, cannot say that it justifies the purpose of its existence and functioning. What's the problem, Mr. Minister? The price policy that we have in the energy sector today is not economic, it has not provided in Serbia for the past 10 years or free economic reproduction, let alone something more. This has denied everyone in the energy sector for investment, for revitalisation, for new projects, for investment, for everything these European mentalists have designed for you through various strategies and documents for the last 10 years. We don't even know how many strategies and documents they adopted. When you balance and look at what the energy sector means in Serbia today, the conclusion is twice as naked. Why, Minister? Because they are not bound by anything, because if they were bound by something, we would not be discussing this point today but would wait for a new energy law to be passed, so, in accordance with the new energy law, we choose the Energy Agency's Council under new rules. What about energy efficiency, which is somehow in the hands of this agency, at what level is it today in Serbia? It's completely inefficient. What about electricity consumption? Totally irrational. In the story of the energy law, we said – the structure of energy consumption in Serbia is completely irrational. This has not moved forward for the last 10 years, with all European stories and all European friendships. Mr. Minister, what about the restructuring? I'm talking to you because you've been sitting in front of the government, but questions are for the government and policymakers for the last 10 years. In 10 years, only NIS has been privatised and this has yielded certain results – the introduction of the corporate governance principle has shown that it makes sense. One year you've been doing business with losses, you've done business and you've earned a profit in the following year. The introduction of private capital and private money in this sector really makes sense. Who's had a problem with that for the last 10 years? Those who have run economic policy for 10 years, and besides, within that framework, the country's energy policy. You are aware that in the 1990s, the energy sector was very ungrateful. When we were under sanctions from these European friends, the current majority had no room for investment, neither for revitalisation nor for market development, nor for export development, nor for import development. As far as the energy sector is concerned, in the 1990s, everything has been done out of necessity and the point of urgency has put the EU and NATO bombing pact on hold. Now the question arises – what happened after that and why did the energy sector not experience the changes, reforms and restructuring that the gentlemen, coming to power in 2000, promised us? Today you hear about standards, about directives, about values, and when you turn around and look around, you see that everything is twice as naked. What is a problem for the SRS is that in the past 10 years since they came to power they have neither created economic nor energy assumptions that this energy system is changing. But let's do it because they didn't create and do it during their term of office because of the fact that this was not achieved either by those who came after them for the next five or 10 years of visible change in the energy sector will not be able to do it. You know why the problem is? Because they did not recognise it as one of Serbia's development chances, because Serbia has an interest in dealing with this, because it will parallelly support the development of economy and overall economic growth and vice versa, Serbia is a completely dependent state. It was the main motive for things to change in the energy sector. We are completely dependent on imports, but in this sector, they have a relationship to imports as well as other sectors of the economy. It's easier to import in this country than to produce something. The job is easier to do, it's easier to buy and do business with a few people who represent a particular lobby, than to work hard at revitalizing and restoring. That's why he has to break up with that policy. It is a policy that has poisoned both energy and economic and every other system and segment of this society and state and with them has to be cleared up in the next elections, because only with them is a certain agony. Just before I said, a bunch of documents were brought and adopted. Isanalyse what has been achieved and implemented from these documents, so analyze what opinions people from the Energy Agency have given. The people of the Energy Agency tell you and refer you to a bunch of laws that you have to change to establish a market policy, market principles in the energy sector. When you adopt those laws, you convince us that they are quality, European and good and that they will provide something new and something better. We're going round and round like a cat in a sack. What about the power infrastructure? Here you know what document – The strategy for the perspective development of the transmission network by 2020, adopted in 2007. Minister, if you've had a chance to meet in this ministry, tell us what's been done? What has been done in this context, how much has been restored or expanded energy infrastructure in Serbia for the last five years, not have to be in 10? Of all those projects that are instructed, from budgets to various strategies, this authority will be able to boast of only one, and that's the dam "Pvonek" at Vranja. Imagine the irony and absurdity, I'm glad it's in southern Serbia, but look at this now. Its total power is below one megawatt, and its pump facilities in the system of hair plants on Lissina are spending 23 megawatts. How small is that and how insignificant is that? It is a picture and opportunity of the 10-year-old government of European forces. Mr. Aligrudic wonders earlier why the deadlines are 60 days, why not adequate deadlines? Because these also occur today in Serbia, and they refer to the renewable energy sector, what is most important for perspective and future. To come the company and say -- here's a project, we ask for consent, that the ministry gentlemen or the competent institutions review the project, and see that the project is good and meaningful, call their team on the ground and tell them – go over there and buy a field above that. They come and buy a field above you, so they submit a similar project and those who decide to give consent to their team or intend to give. These are phenomena that are dominantly depicting and talking about the energy sector today in Serbia. Not to mention the cataster of a mini hydropower plant, etc., which does not fully fit the situation on the ground, that I am not talking about how many in the ministries, how many competent state bodies there are people who are not immune to the influences of individual groups, individual people or individual financial lobbies today in Serbia. And this energy agency, people are complaining about how professional people are taking away from them companies that appear in Serbia and are dealing with the energy sector. How are you going to keep them, how are we going to keep these people, how are we going to keep our own mind working for this country, for the interests of this country's energy sector and this society? What did you motivate them to do, what kind of authority did you set for them? In the midst of a debate on the energy law, we interrupt this law, to adopt, under the old law, a new commission, that is, a new advice from the Energy Agency to function, because the new law brings new ones responsible and as much as possible in this segment of transparent procedure. Because you're like this, that's why we're doing this in the state and society. We repeat, the SRS will not support this because of the way you push this in front of us MPs and we believe that this will be another reason why the citizens will break up with you in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58643	Thank you. We move on to the participation of MPs according to the order declared for a single search on the proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. I give my word to Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, a decision by the National Assembly on the election of members of the Energy Agency's Council was made on 23 May 2005. The period of five years of their term of office expired on 23 May, i.e. in 2010. What happened next to their legitimate work at the Energy Agency Council? It is obvious that from that day on 23 May 2010, there is a legal gap, illegality or illegality of their performance in the Agency's Council of Jobs and Tasks. As the People's MP of the Serbian Radical Party, I am not going into whether the proposed candidates are worthy of performing the tasks proposed by the government. Let's start by assuming they're worthy. According to the profession, all the candidates proposed met the conditions, or were technical, legal or economic professions. Four of them are technical professions, one is a lawyer. So they meet the requirements of Article 18(2). The Energy Act, which applies, means the Energy Act, which was passed and adopted in this assembly in 2004, published in the "Official Messenger" 84/2004. But, Mr. Minister, there's a big problem here. Please, I know you're having a hard time following the MPs we're talking about, you should have attention and concentration all day long, and this is about an irregularity, which you should pay attention to. I appeal to Article 19(2). The Energy Act, which still stands, where it literally writes – the first term of office of two members of the Council takes three years, the first term of office of the second two members of the Council takes four years, and the first term of office of the President of the Council takes five years, which is determined by the Act of the National Assembly on the election of the president and members of the Council. What do we have now? What situation? The government, whose representative you are here at the National Assembly, has proposed to the Assembly a decision on the election of the president and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, not to read the names. For the president, Ljubo Macic, who was formerly president of the Council, was proposed. Under the provisions of article 19, he can be re-proposed president with a five-year term. However, earlier Council members Ljiljana Hadzibabic and Predrag Makar, in the second term, may also be proposed for five years for members of the Council. However, when it comes to new candidates, they cannot be proposed for a five-year term. It means the two Dejan Stojanovic and Goran Petkovic. The two of them, according to Article 19(2). The Energy Act can be elected, which is determined by the Energy Act, by the Act of the National Assembly in the election decision either for three years of office or for four years of office. It was a solution for you in the government to propose them for a three-year or four-year term, so the proposal is legally lacking. It's contrary to Article 19. The Energy Act, which is why you have now hurried, hastened to implement the election of members of the Energy Agency's Council before the adoption of the new energy law. This is very controversial. You're creating a problem for yourself here, because someone can launch an initiative to undo your decision, if in the meantime, in case there is a legal-technical possibility to make a change to the motion for a decision. You have professional services in both the Assembly and the Government, so I suggest you deal with this problem, this issue, because obviously by interpretation and by the letter of the provisions of Article 19(2), this is wrong, it is not legal. One more thing, you made it possible for a report on the work of the Agency for 2010. The report arrived in the Serbian Parliament on July 6th 2011. It was signed by Council President Ljubo Macic. His mandate expired on 23 May 2010, and since that date he could not, nor could he be, president of the Council until he was eventually re-elected. Look at the report, there it is, in the procedure in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He couldn't sign the report as president of the Council either, and that's the same problem I'm talking about and who's here. So, they've had one year, two months and two days since 23 May 2010. Furthermore, if you carry out a legal-technical correction of this proposal, the question of the Energy Agency Council is raised, can it and does it wish to oppose the energy lobby in Serbia, which, unfortunately, still exists? We in the SRS do not hesitate to mention the names and names of the energy lobby, such as Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic, former Minister in Djindjic's Government, Goran Novakovic, former EPS director Ljubomer Geric or the company "Energic Financing Team Interface" and other companies that have dealt with various manipulations in the sale and purchase of electricity. They were largely assisted by certain government members and party representatives since 2010, when they were allowed to buy electricity in Serbia by 2.4 cents per kilowatt hour, and the same electricity sold to the Republic of Serbia for four cents per kilowatt hour. In this one job, the state was damaged by 1,200,000 euros. You, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, are now Minister of Government, at the time you were neither a member of the government nor your party, the SPS, was in the government, but I'm sure you know about the existence of a Czech debt and manipulation and damage to the state of 12 million in the name of paying off that Czech debt. France's Bank offered EPS a 36m-euro ransom for the Czech debt, and the EPS chose a Hungarian firm to pay off the Czech debt for 48m euros. The difference of 12m euros is how much Serbia is damaged. I'm sure you know that. There are many questions, will the Energy Agency's Council discuss, will it prevent it? I have no doubt of the regularity, honesty, expertise and president of the Council and possibly new members of the Council and former members of the Council, do they have the will, do they have the possibility? Legally, yes. Do they have the power to stand up to all that? You also know, with the existence of the Committee of Auditors in order to determine the facts and circumstances of the electricity trade and financial banking business in this regard. What about that report in 2004? A lot of irregularities have been identified there. Is the exact information provided by some of the party's lists, and sources are from the SNS that they bribed Alexander Vukic, president of the then Bureau of Survey? Actually, we know it is. The crime market in Serbia is divided and they protect each other, the mafia road, road, road, road, road, financial, drug, energy, privatisation and political, and is yesterday's statement by Gandhi from Bajcetina, or Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SNS that Milan Beko is necessary to Serbia, a statement on the protection of one of the tycoon in Serbia? We know, Mr. Minister, that the real reason for the emergency procedure is already said here, avoiding the Council's election by the competition, as predicted by the current bill, which a colleague already spoke of at the beginning of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58645	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58646	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS cannot support this proposal for principle reasons. Although we have studied personally all five candidates who are proposing here, we cannot vote for this proposal and we cannot accept it precisely because this proposed emergency procedure, which has been interrupted by a meeting of the National Assembly and that practically the entire National Assembly here is in a position to simply violate its reputation by voting for one such proposal, because you should have taken care of us, not about us who are from the opposition, especially about the MPs of the SRS, because they always make sure that when they vote for something to be both by law and by the Constitution, but you should also take care of the representatives and MPs of the ruling majority, because when they vote for this proposal they will vote for something illegal. In this way, the Assembly also puts itself in a position to be called by the professional public. Perhaps it would be best, Mr. Minister, if you were to withdraw this proposal, so when we adopt a new law, then in a transparent way choose the advice of the agency. We don't speak in person here, they can be the same people that you've proposed here, but to put us in a position to simply be a member of the 19th law that is still in force and will be in force until this new one is adopted, we simply won't vote on this proposal. However, in the five years that this council exists and how many agencies there are we could talk about what we talked about about the Energy Act, about licences for which the agency is normally competent, and about the withdrawal of licences for which the Agency is also responsible. We didn't have and we didn't discuss it at the time, but I raised another question, I raised the issue of fuel blinding, where the state loses 270m euros every year. Then you said that this is something that falls within the scope of market inspection, but if here, I'm talking about a new law because at the time we discussed a new law, for fuel quality, all those who get energy consent, all those who get licences are obliged to, when it comes to fuel quality, to deliver their data to the ministry. When we say fuel blending, whether it's gasoline or oil, it's clear to all of us that, in addition to certain by-products coming out of our refineries, a large amount of energy is imported and used to blend fuel and has such untouchable energy producers, perhaps only twenty in Serbia, but the damage the oil industry has and especially the damage that the budget has, because these fuels are sold on the market at prices that are reduced to VAT, is enormous. When we talked about it in front of the SRS on Friday, we were primarily looking to distract you because, after all, the ministry is responsible and also to draw attention to the agency that does not exist at this time, if we stick to Article 19. The energy law that is in force today, that in its work it explores these situations and practically withdraws licenses from transport companies, by selling oil, because, in the end, they could not get, as far as I think, some oil production license, but it can be traced to these companies and it is a public secret to whom it is allowed in Serbia, from various oils and other power plants, to make oil that is of a lower quality, makes gasoline that is of a lower quality, and then repairs it to a certain extent with energy suppliers that it takes from the NIS refinery. Mr. Minister, in the end, in order for everything to be transparent, I think it is best that this proposal be withdrawn for a certain period of time so that when a new law is passed that at one of the next sessions we discuss selecting members of the Energy Agency's board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58647	Six minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Vladan Jeremic has the word, and after him the People's Messenger Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58648	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, with the already general objections that my colleagues have made regarding the proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, what I would like to point out in my discussion is that it should certainly bear in mind that one of the foundations of the energy strategy should also represent a stable legal environment. What is the basic problem in this whole story of energy reform is that the legal system in Serbia obviously does not provide enough guidance on how to deal with energy as a public good. Of course, the Serbian Constitution prescribes that natural resources are considered good of public interest and that they are therefore state property. Consequently, public goods are considered good in the property of the state and subject to potential contractual arrangements between the government and other entities, in accordance with the law. In Serbia, however, when it comes to distribution authorities, virtually no institution is responsible for implementing national energy policy. The ministry responsible for policymaking is not responsible for this and for price formation, while the Ministry of Finance, for example, which is not responsible for politics, determines both prices and wages in the sector. The example works, as part of the the thesis that this energy intensity in Serbia is very high and that it is getting worse over time, shows also that Serbian economy has high carbon emissions with a emission ratio of 6.6 times the global average and around 11 times the average in OCD. However, energy consumption per capita is almost two and a half times lower than the OCD average. This points to the fact that electricity consumption is inefficient in terms of value creation. The fact that energy inefficiencies are grouped around the densest populated areas in which this largest concentration of production potential is located, flows in ports, railways, etc. In doing so, consumption dynamics show that energy efficiency is dropping while consumption of potentially most productive energy sources is growing. What does this in a color expression mean? This means that Serbia is spending more and more high-quality energy, electricity and oil derivatives on disproportionately small increases in GDP. In Serbia, energy policy covers the period until 2015. However, the fact was that this energy policy was influenced by the fact that it depended on external interests to be managed, unfortunately, rather than politically than economically, and mainly referred to a short period of time. The technical aspects related to the question of which the energy source is more efficient, more economical and purer are true for the will documented in a number of international studies. However, some detailed analysis of the real content of these policies reveals that they actually contain many shortcomings in the application of the process of meeting these international commitments and internal objectives. Of course, what is most important now is, in fact, how to integrate all these technical plans into some broader economic development objectives, i.e. how and how to ensure that the process of achieving this energy security that we seek, at the same time, is a consensus with other flows, or reforms that should contribute to their greater effectiveness. What is a fact is that Serbia lacks energy resources and that in terms of these available quantities, both in terms of quality and practically according to some indicators, only hydroenergy and bio mass are available in quantities and quality that could be competitive with similar resources in other parts of Europe. When it comes to natural gas, oil and coal are limited by quality and by quantity, and given the lack of domestic energy sources, it is clear, therefore, that Serbia has no other options, but, unfortunately, that it is dependent on imports, and in addition, since there is no way out of the sea energy supply costs are relatively high for Serbia. One of the main objectives of Serbia's energy policy over the past period was to reduce dependence on imports, therefore, through greater use of these domestic energy sources, and if this goal is close to achievement, this is, therefore, achieved at a very high price in terms of this international competitiveness of national economy. From the point of view of available transport capacities, Serbia remained relatively closed. The quantities of imports and exports are low compared to domestic transport of materials and this trend is increasingly pronounced. I would like to point out, therefore, that this new strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia, the dependence on domestic lignite is only somewhat focused on creating additional capacity for the production of electricity from hydropower through reconstruction of existing and announcements of the construction of new hydrocenters by 2012. However, it is expected that a good part of the electricity will now be produced using these existing and newly-opened carbons from which the existing thermopower and these additional new production units will be supplied. The policy of existing resources, i.e. the policy to be led, therefore, provides for several options for better use of existing resources and an increase in energy efficiency, but it is not clear whether this is the result of just some careful analysis of cost rationalisation or some more advanced thinking, or simply some small changes have been made in relation to this energy policy that has been led over the past years. So what was adopted in 2004, as Serbia's energy policy, so far has not been a more serious attempt to bring about some revision of its settings and objectives in terms of some broader energy perspective and the overall national development strategy. In Serbia, an example of energy intensity is high compared to modern European standards, almost half of primary energy needs are met with domestic lignite, about one quarter of crude oil, slightly more than 10% natural gas, same hot wood and about 7% renewable energy sources, including hydropower, and at this point I repeat Serbia's dependence on imports, practically covering about 30% of the total energy needs. However, imports of crude oil, natural gas cover 85% of the need for liquid fuel, or natural gas. In addition, most of the heavy equipment, key technologies in power plants, refineries, mines originates from imports and is highly dependent on import spare parts for the needs of regular maintenance. If the implementation of environmental requirements and agreements in the energy community is foreseen at the same time, even increasing the participation of lignite in the energy consumption structure, Serbia will clearly have to import additional technologies and equipment. So to recapitalise the situation in Serbia's energy sector, it could be about that people's "to be, but it doesn't have to mean", it would depend on many of those who manage the energy sector, it seems to me that so far it hasn't been managed well enough by the fact that, as a state, we have potential, and the period ahead will show whether we will be able to be smart enough to do this field of action in a much better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58649	Nine minutes and twenty seconds used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has a word, followed by the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58650	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, for your sake, we are discussing today, that is, the ninth extraordinary session where one item of the agenda is the election of presidents and members of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. I think the President of the Assembly, when the meeting was scheduled, should have taken into account the circumstances under which this session is convened, that he has in mind the fact in the course of the eighth extraordinary session at which MPs discuss the Energy Act that regulates and selects this body. The principled SRS has explained so thoroughly so many times, which is why it believes that these agencies are unnecessary and therefore burden the citizens of Serbia. But to convey what the atmosphere is like in the congregation, it means your own personal impression, so it's like choosing members of the home council. Apart from the SRS MPs who will talk about this topic, that is, this item of the agenda, others do not show interest. We did not make a list of speakers because of what we want to talk about, but because we feel responsible and a commitment to the citizens of Serbia to show them what it is. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I've thought many times about why the government's reconstruction has joined. This point has helped me in a great way to come up with an answer, or a solution, and you will agree, and for one simple reason, that the Ministry of Energy, which is very important and vital, we had in the back, one or three years when one politician who was offered in some preliminary talks to be president of the Assembly, said, "Don't do this to me, I'd rather be Minister of Energy." I can tell you later which politician it is, it is not important to the public of Serbia, but it is only important that you see how important this sector is. What happens then, Mr. Mrkonjic, then to you who are an objectively tolerated man, occupied by corridor ten and other works in the area of construction, they add energy and you want it or not, no matter how capacitative, what my colleague Stevanovic would say, you cannot achieve a search, to see what is there and what is the essence of this agency's choice. So we have an agency that's been around for not five years but six years. Six years ago, there was a mandate that expired a year ago. It's similar to you, like this director of the police, now a decision has been made to extend his mandate and she has some number that's smaller than a number, this is an executive protocol, from the number where he's resolved from that function. We practically don't have a police director right now. We have a situation where the term of office takes place under the law, the mandate of the members of the agency takes five years, and the mandate expired in May, more specifically on 23 May 2010. It is not known to me that these are appointed officers, members of the Agency's council, but we have now, at a time when we are discussing the Energy Act to conduct the selection of members of the Agency's council, so at the very least observed in accordance with the law is fine, but at the very least it is not moral. If you're in favour of depolitisation, you're in favour of an institution of competition, so this is the best example of how you run away from it, and basically the goal is to place as many people as possible. You know, right now I won't have that much time to talk about it, that the election of the Minister of Energy, that the election of members of the regulatory council, doesn't have any more serious influence than the Prime Minister, so I'd say neither does the president of the state, even though he let go of his tentacles everywhere, but it's the energy octopus. They are the ones who propose and decide when to change, how and in what way to divide it, and all in order for the infrastructure, built by generations before us, is that right, Mr. Colakovic, to make it as cheap as possible, easier to unload, and thus someone takes it for very small or small money. Who's going to give them that? It will enable these members of the Agency's Council. It can't be said that so far they couldn't show, and we have no intention and you've heard from my colleagues the predecessors of the SRS personally we haven't been more serious, although we're all familiar, looked back at the members of the Council of this agency, but Mr. Macic could prove to be a kind of fighter for what you choose here. The SRS won't vote for this, to show up, when in this country the price of gas went away at one point. So one time for 60%. Where was he then, where was this Agency to solve these problems? Dear citizens since 2013, this body, which we choose here and under the Energy Act, has gained a lot of independence. It seems to me to be somewhere Pandam to the President of the Republic, of course this one has wider powers. It seems to me that this agency will be able to bring a calendar, too, to say – now it will be spring, now it will be a little autumn and so on. They don't depend on anyone. When they are elected today, at the session of this congregation, they will no longer depend on anyone. They won't have to account for anyone except for this energy octopus. It's not a speciality of the energy mafia, something that is, I have to be correct and politically correct to admit, what DS or DOS invented since 2000. This has existed before. Only some names can be mentioned, such as Sinisa Ciric, a longtime financial director of the EPS, who often likes to go 21st floor in the former Central Committee building. Do you know what's out there? There is Vojin Lazarevic's cabinet, because of course it works and cooperates with the company, so Bogdan Djurdjevic, so Slobodan Babic and many others. All of these are names that were previously in Serbia's Elektroprivred, which are in the best way and one of them boasted, that in a short time he earned $28m and now invests them in construction and works here in Belgrade. It's all facts and it's not a novelty right now, but the problem is that we didn't make it, or you as a government, you couldn't cut that chain, but, unfortunately, you're helping him, you're giving him the wind in the back that some people can continue today. So Vojin Lazarevic, Vuk Hamovic, is not the product of the DOS alone, it was from before, but you don't seem to have, I think, a serious political responsibility to oppose you seriously raising your voice, to say – no, it can't do that anymore. Here's another piece of information, Mr. Grouchy, if I'm telling the truth. So when the gas in Serbia collected 60% once, all of a sudden, we had 37 gas distributors. Of which 29 had a license, and eight worked without a license. It seems to me that the president of the Agency, I can't say everything, that for everything in this country that's going on, Ljubo Macic, he seems to have sent some memos to the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Energy, or whatever it is called, in Vojvodina. He sent and warned that eight companies distributed gas without a license and gave no results. Here's enough evidence to support the SRS claim that these agencies are not pointless. They are pointless for the citizens of Serbia but for individuals and for the energy octopus, which is strangling and tightening and making life difficult for the citizens of Serbia. They also have what great importance it is to finish that part of the job that no one else could have done before them. I'll ask you some questions through the amendments. Is this agency going to handle it? Recently, the former energy minister, who was correct here, boasted that the deadline for building a mini power plant was reduced and averaged from six months to two years. I'm going to give you an example of a company that employs about 17 workers, and out of that, 80% of the high-ranking, even with science doctors in that area. We know that experts must be involved in this area. None, although two years in the area of a certain municipality in the engineering phase, consulting, no mini power plant has gone beyond the 12th document, and you know it takes 27 to have a mini power plant built and released into operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58651	Nine minutes used by the MP's group. The People's MP Mirko Munjic has the word, followed by MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, that the choice of this council was under new law, and since the adoption of that new energy law, which is in the process, we've only been divided for a few days. We wouldn't have Minister Mrkonjic in front of the government for sure here today. Since Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is here and I have the impression that he listens carefully to the MPs of the SRS who speak on this subject, at first I will ask him one question – did you think about one thing, your intelligence, as Minister of Energy, on this matter, on the Council, is only two more days. Just two more days, you're in charge of me saying, when this advice is chosen today, for him. Those eight days that are time for the law to come into force. So, after that, you don't, as Minister and your Ministry, have any authority over this Council. This is, after all, provided for in Article 37. A bill of energy, where you suggest that this council be, that the Agency be an independent body. A body that is independent of every state authority, independent of every institution and of any individual who even deals with this area, energy. Therefore, it is prescribed in this proposal for the new Energy Act that members of this Council should be elected by the National Assembly on the basis of a public competition, whether it is so, which is called and implemented by the commission, which is again being educated by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry. That's not normal here, because you're doing it under the old law. No competition, no commission. This is what you do under that old law. What kind of intelligence you'll have after this, I said before. Of these five candidates you've proposed here, about two-thirds of the work résumé refers to one person. We really see by this that it's an impressive work résumé, that it's an impressive career of 33 years. I would sincerely like, since that's how it is, that, as part of this council as you propose, there are at least two students from this lady who have such a good and impressive career. I'm not sure that's the case. However, what irritates little is one fact, at the end of this impressive work career there is one item, which says which contact persons and the last in a series of contact persons is Kori Udovicki. It's the same lady, to remind the citizens of Serbia, who in time told and told pensioners, that if they had no money to pay for electricity, let them sell apartments. You remember that. Here, I think, after that regular number six, I'd say where people are talking about contact, there should be a few more regular numbers. It seems to me that, under regular numbers, Goran Novakovic should have been, and under regular number eight, for example, Dimitria Vukcevic. You remember Goran Novakovic, the one the SRS called a member of the energy mafia back in 2003. Dimitrije Vukcevic, the person whom Kori Udovicki proposed to head NIS in 2003. Why is this trio important that's mentioned here? Why can he be interesting and what their relationships have been or will he be with the members of this council proposed today, whose composition you are defending today? I claim on the basis of my knowledge so far that this group will pick up the main part of the energy crayons that will be produced over the next 12 years in the so-called period. The wind parks. So, during a period of 12 years, the state will subsidise the price, i.e. subsidising the purchase of electricity produced in these wind parks, as I understood, at about 9.5 euro cents per kilowatt hour. So, from the state register on this basis, about a billion and 300m euros will be allocated. A billion and 300m euros will subsidise the price of electricity, but only to certain persons, persons who are already predetermined, to people who are privileged. As far as we can tell, there are about nine companies in this game. This is mentioned earlier in Goran Novaković, so Sister Kori Udovici is mentioned, so Miodrag Kostic, the sugar king, is mentioned and Dimitria Vukcevic, former director of NIS, is mentioned. There are more, but I'd say that this group seems to represent those capitalists in this area, in the field of energy. Now, watch this, the quota for all of Serbia, when it comes to renewable energy, is about 450 megawatts. Of this, "Energovint", which is called the company, owned by Mr. Novakovic, should build a 100 megawatt wind power plant. Look, one man is given a quarter of the quota, two thirds left, and you see how many crocodiles there are in this boat. When that boat gets mixed up, I think it'll be evil, then this energy advice will have a lot of work to do. However, since we see here that the contact of the council members is proposed in this report by Cori Udovici, I have no illusion at all which of them will receive the remaining two-thirds of this 450 million megawatt quota. Next, I'm just going to tell you a frantic fact, imagine, this group that's supposed to get these quotas has asked the state, Mr. Minister, I think you're familiar with that, has asked that a period of 12 years, which the state will subsidise the preferential price of 9.5 euro cents per kilowatt hour, is the difference somewhere near three euro cents, has asked that this one to increase to 20 years, from 12 to 20 years old. Few people 1.3 billion euros, they need another billion. They need to be understood. That's how long it takes. The basic abuse of monopoly so far in this area is, when it comes to EPS, so-called. the block tariffs, as prices in that green, blue and red zone, or tariff are set in those relative amounts. The payment of the calculation force based on the limiter, therefore, now on the basis of the limiter, and that of the fuses that are on the counter, would be in fact all 12 months, no matter what the consumption of electricity is less in the summer period. It's a new abuse now. I think it would be a new robbery of citizens, that way of calculating electricity. There is absolutely no concern here about the average use of power based on spent kilowatt hours. Representatives of the authorities in the coming period announce a 100% electricity collection in some subsequent period, in order to bring electricity prices into line with the surrounding countries. Serbian citizens need to know this, what is coming to them, Serbian citizens should be very careful about all the colourful lies the current government proposes for them in the coming period, especially in the period until the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58653	Nine minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's MP Goran Mihajlovic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago when we had a principle debate on the Energy Law proposal, I said that the first impression that comes after reading this bill was that someone was in such a hurry to pass this law. Here, today's session at its best confirms the fact, previously stated, because it's obvious that someone wants to avoid an institution of competition and choose members of the Energy Agency for some kind of agreement policy, which is contrary to what is prescribed in this bill. Namely, the reason is more than obvious, it is wanted to capture positions before the next republican elections and that these privileges that exist now remain, and on the other hand to meet again the bosses from Brussels and Washington, to implement some of their provisions in this law. This law is nothing more than one squawk between old aspirations for privileges and new requirements that are more difficult to implement in this law. The Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia has a management body that, as is said, is called the Agency's Council and numbers five members, one president and four members. You see, when you read this new bill, you immediately see one illogicality. The mandate of two members of the Council was proposed for three years, with two members remaining for four years, and the president's term of office for five years. What's the logic now, that in the five-man council, we have three, four and five years in office? I guess it makes sense that the mandate for everything is the same and that it lasts as usual, which is four years. After all, we have also submitted an amendment that will be exposed in the day of the debate in particular. Furthermore, our great objection to this bill, in the section relating to the Agency and the Council, is that too much authority has been given to the Agency. If you look at article 46. You'll find the bill has at least 20-30 jurisdiction of the Agency. The bottom line is that the price of energy will be determined by the Agency. It's a commitment since 2012, as far as we can see, for all kinds of energy. Why is it our objection to the Agency's doing this? It's easier to influence five people from the Agency's Council than the Ministry. However, energy policy prices and strategies were to be run by people from the ministry, who are much harder to exert influence than five members of the Energy Agency. We fear that this agency should not only be a dead letter on paper, because it should, by law, report its work to the National Assembly, so that it does not happen, such as. The Educational National Educational Council, if he hadn't filed a report for the first two years at all, and later he filed some sort of formal character report, so that we could adopt it. I'm sure you'll vote for this, because you have the right majority to do so. But will Serbia's citizens be better off once this agency is formed? I'm sure he won't. According to the provisions of this bill, it is obvious to break into several parts of a large energy continent, which is particularly visible in the area of electricity, where a special company for production, especially for energy distribution and sales. Where there are many links in the chain that manipulate energy, there must be a much greater possibility of manipulation. Furthermore, something else I would like to point out, which I briefly said when there was a debate in principle, is the state of the energy generators on KIM. In this bill, we do not see at all that the Energy Agency, nor the Council, has any effect on Kosovo's energies. Let me remind you, Kosovo is extremely rich in energy potential, we have large mineral reserves, mostly lignite, about 15 billion tonnes, lead, zinc, boxing, etc. As we know, since June 1999, since the establishment of the interim self-government institution in Kosovo, and later Kosovo's electricity corporation, practically, the state of Serbia has no interference in the developments in Kosovo. As we know, all Serbian laws, including the Electricity Act, have been suspended there. The situation is desperate, electricity restrictions last for a few days, and in the structure of consumption 70% are households, while 7.5% of electricity consumption is an economy, or industry. The unwritten rule is in the world's most developed countries, the ratio is half-and-a-half, roughly, the cost of households, the consumption and industry. From here, we can clearly see the state of the economy in Kosovo, as much as 10 times less electricity is spent by the economy than the household. That means the situation is catastrophic. These other remarks that we have on the Agency's work and the Agency's Council will be presented on the day of the debate in particular. Once again, I would like to stress that the SRS cannot vote for this bill, because we believe that the solutions contained in it will be much worse than existing solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58655	It's been used for seven minutes. The notice that a unique search is under way, so this point has no discussion in particular, so I ask the MPs to take care of it. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58656	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, for the SRS, this is an unacceptable way of considering this point, and so far, we have had a lot of situations to break up the session, we are putting into one context, and this is one context, but it is unacceptable to interrupt the session, where we are discussing a very important law, essentially, a strategic law that will fundamentally change a lot in the field of energy and energy activity. The SRS, in addition to this, believes that for legal and technical reasons it should not be resolved and proposed as proposed. For what? If we look at just the form of a decision, then we see that we have a proposal to elect five members of the Council. In a legal-technical sense, we need to resolve someone, no matter what time they were chosen to run out of, some three years ago, some two years ago, some went to other functions, etc. By automatism, it was supposed to be deleted earlier. It is unacceptable that this is being resolved only today, and could have been resolved far earlier, six months ago, a year, two, when legal reasons and the essential reasons for these people's going to other functions were created. The Council was supposed to be innovated at that time. On the other hand, there are even more legal-technical reasons why such a solution is unacceptable. We need to look at the draft energy law in general and then see how the governance and management system of the Energy Agency is established and then we see a heterogeneous conduct of the state authorities. We have a law on public agencies that clearly states what management and management bodies are in agencies. These are the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the Director. That's what the parent law says about public agencies. There was a need to harmonise all other regulations, in line with the parent, strategic law, which is the Law on public agencies. We have a situation here that we have a council, we don't have a director. The President of the Council automatically performs two functions. One is governance, like the President of the Council, and the other is the President of the Council as director of the Agency, because he also performs those individual tasks, as director, and also performs collective affairs, as President of the Council. It is unacceptable in the legal system that in one person we have two functions, in this case the President of the Council, as a representative of the collective body and president of the Council, as an individual person who will carry out all the tasks that the Director has. This authority does not respect itself, because if it had respected itself, it would have implemented the harmonisation of these regulations and would have settled it uniformly. If the parent law says there's a director, there's a board of directors, a board of directors, then we need to adapt everything accordingly. In the bill of law, you didn't do it. It was an opportunity and a chance to achieve harmonisation but, unfortunately, that's how you solve it. When we talk about essential things, which is to avoid competition, representatives of the SRS have openly said that the aim is to avoid competition. Why avoid competition? There will be 15 applications at the competition, 55 requests, and you will choose whoever you want again. Declaratively, you advocate depolitisation, departisation of the system, and in this way you show how real it is to fight honestly for the departementization and depolitisation of the system. So you're not in the way of the competition. In no system competition is a distraction, please satisfy the form and choose whoever you want. But run. It's embarrassing and it's hypocritical. To run this way, to interrupt a regular session where we talk about energy, to interrupt it and carry on like this, it's a bit hypocritical, but you're doing so. When we talk about essential reasons, then there are huge changes in this law, and also in this proposal a decision on the election of presidents and members of the Council. The Council, under the provisions of the bill, gets far greater powers than they were before. He jumps out of the regulatory body system, jumps out of the Public Agency Law system, and he essentially does not have the power in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Why? As a regulatory body, a body that regulates certain relations in energy, it does not have the essential strength of the ministry. What did this government do? This government abolished the ministry six months ago and now, in the light of the law, it tells us – we are entering a reform, a strategic turn in this area. How without the Ministry, how without the highest executive authority? Now this is where we come up with the essential question. The essential question here is the place and position of the ministry in relation to the regulatory body, which is the Agency. Can the Agency replace the Ministry? He can't. He can't because he has no instrumentation, no inspection, no ability to exercise control. You're saying, in terms of the Agency's jurisdiction and affairs, he's going to do certain tasks, in terms of giving tasks to energy entities to deliver certain documents, but it's not control. In the ministry, there remains control and the possibility of facing certain problems in practical life, which will be seen by the ministry and take sanctions, but the regulatory body does not. Then that's where we get the duality of functions. One is the ministry that has lost all those powers that the Republic of Serbia has to have and have, in other situations, and there is no such thing, it gets someone else. In practice, we're going to have huge problems, you're aware of that, but it's a warrant from the West. This is a warrant for the West, this is a warrant for Brussels. But it is no problem to execute the order, but you must adapt it to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The legal system of the Republic of Serbia obliges you, as the highest authority of the Executive Authority of the Ministry, to have all the powers that all the other ministries have. In this case, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy will not have those powers, it will be transferred to the Agency, but the tasks that this agency will perform will also be mutilated because it has no control function. It cannot control, cannot punish and cannot undertake all executive activities, which the competent state authority, or Ministry, has. What else is worried about the Serbian Radical Party? EPS representatives, as the largest economic operator in the energy field, have for years announced an increase in electricity prices and say prices will rise by about 60 per cent compared to this level of price by 2013. These are again certain agreements at European level, in terms of adapting harmonisation, etc. Furthermore, which is again related to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which binds us to certain things. What will it mean when we raise this price level by 60%. Who's gonna pay for that? We have this situation today that 30% of the electricity consumption is not being paid. The social situation of citizens is such that it is impossible for these categories to pay for spent electricity, and we have done nothing to create social cards and free those who cannot pay for it. The task of this state and state institutions was to create social maps, create conditions for liberation, to reduce and enable all entities, primarily natural persons and certain categories that cannot be paid, to be privileged citizens in that category, who will not be able to comply with obligations, either in part, or in full. As for the funding of the Agency, you are in violation of the provisions of the Act again, you are putting the Agency in a position to bring it on its own, that is Article 46. It is contrary to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia because one entity cannot be authorised to determine the amount of licence fees, establish criteria and measures to determine the amount of licence fees, and on the other hand, that the total amount of funds goes and belongs to that agency. The position of the Serbian Radical Party, which we are constantly making, that all revenues made by foreign regulatory bodies, enter the budget first, are withdrawn and given to the agency on the basis of the financial plan. So someone's in control. What does a license mean? A licence means one document, one which is approved, which allows a particular economic operator to operate in the field of energy. What's the fee for? It's his right. Do we meet the conditions? We're filling up. Why would I pay that fee? I pay taxes and contribute in accordance with the legal system. In this situation you have allowed the Agency itself to determine the level of fees for licences. It may be in some situations for some subject x, for other ipillon, etc., etc. The agency doesn't have that right. According to our legal system, the Agency cannot do this, it can only be carried out by the Government, exclusively by the highest executive body. All revenue received by the Agency on this basis is used for the regular business of the Agency, so it is in the interest of the Agency to have as much revenue as possible, to make these fees as possible. If we raise the level of license fees as much as we need, we'll have good wages, we'll have the opportunity to provide ourselves with infrastructure, create preconditions to educate ourselves, travel, etc. If the fee level is lower, we won't have it. Who's controlling us? No one, determines for themselves. We set our own financial plan, no one influences it, we determine the level of compensation ourselves, etc. There's the opposite, it's a conflict of interest. You directly inaugurated him through these provisions. The Agency has no administrative or personal or level of expertise at the moment, no personnel, no technical and technological possibilities to perform all this work that has been done here. What's the difference between all these jobs you've given in article 46 to do so by the Ministry? We maimed the Ministry. Minister, you don't have any authority, you haven't had any until now, nor did the former Ministry when it was a stand-alone body have the most basic indicators in the energy sector. On several occasions as chairman of the Committee on the Energy Industry, I sought certain things both on the Committee itself and in direct communication with the Minister. He says, "We don't have that information." The most basic thing about how much the daily balance of consumption is and electricity production does not have a minister. What kind of Ministry is that? Now they'll have less of that data. A colleague from the SRS said the ministry was brought down to the minister, secretary, coffee cook and driver. That's true, but the problem is that even the Agency can't create people. Why do the Agency have problems solving quality professional personnel and keeping them for more than two to three years? They're leaving. Our profession goes to business entities, mostly private business entities, who pay far better. Can we keep the profession? We can't. So does that look like a country? It is not like there are no serious personnel, no trained staff, no responsible people who will seriously question the entire system, take care, monitor, analyze, solve problems that arise in practice. There's no state here. We have come to this position with this overall state of affairs in this area that the highest state body, the executive body, has no data and cannot monitor, cannot control and sanction anything that is harmful in this area. When we talk about governance and leadership in this agency, then we have to say that right now, the President of the Council, regardless of all these powers, won't be able to, because he doesn't have a complete picture of the energy system, he has in theoretical terms, through certain analyses that he's done, which he's been doing. It will take years to create a quality team of people who will deal exclusively with these jobs, who will have a comprehensive monitoring and control system and all the data needed for the energy system. The fear of the SRS is that at that interval, until this agency really comes to life the way you drew it in the legal system, wrongly, but you set it up, we've got a lot of problems that won't be able to solve this agency. The agency doesn't have the political power that the Ministry has and what it has...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58657	People's MP, the time available to the MP's group has been used. Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word and before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? There are no reports. In that case, I conclude a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Milutin Mrkonjic, from the scene: I'd like to say something. Minister, the search is closed. The minister must as well as any other participant in the session to monitor the course of the session. Please don't throw it away. During the session, he took the lead, so most of the discussions the MPs wanted to share with us were on the verge of applying Article 106. I asked twice and then I concluded a unique search and I'm asking that we finish our work without a throw. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on the session's single agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Thursday, July 28, 2011 starting at 11.30 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. This concludes the morning part of the work. I'm setting a break. The work continues at 13.00 hours, with the continuation of the Eighth Extraordinary Session, i.e. a joint single search on the remainder of the agenda. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 12.05 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58658	The 8th Extraordinary Session of July 25, 2011 (Fourth Day of Work) (The session began at 13.05 p.m. Gordana Komic, vice-president of the National Assembly, chaired the meeting. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58659	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by an 81-nation MP. To determine the quorum required for the work of the National Assembly session, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there are 85 MPs in the electronic system, as well as another number of MPs who are not identified in the electronic voting system, which means there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milan Dimitrijevic, Aleksandra Jankovic and Mladen Grujic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is. on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, then Dragan Šutanovac, Minister of Defence and Milan Markovic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Secretary of Defence, Vladimir Ateljević, Head of Defence at the Ministry of Defence, Colonel Predrag Kraljević, Deputy Chief of Defence at the Ministry of Defence, Vladimir Ateljević, Defence Policy, Ljerka Acimović, Assistant Director for Human Rights and Human Rights at the Public Administration of the Ministry of the Ministry of Defence and Public Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the proposals of the law from point. 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda. Points 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda represent a common uniform review of the draft law supplementing the Law on the ratification of the Optual Protocol with the Convention against Tortres and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating penalties and procedures, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Co-operation in the area of defence, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kuwait, which constitutes the Ministry of Defence, which is the Ministry of Defence, on joint co-operation in the area of defence and on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Albania on the readmission of persons not legally staying with the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Albania on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Albania on the Republic of Albania on the readmission of persons not legally staying. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principled single search on the draft laws under points 5, 6, 7, and 8 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, as well as that this time shall be allocated to the MPs in the individual MPs' groups, and that shall be one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia (G17 plus and Together for Shumadija) - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group of New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjin group of ambassadors - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the parliamentary group of PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file immediately for a word, and with the order of the MPs, on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would also like to inform you that the parliamentary groups on these agenda points will represent: MP Jovan Palalic – MP group DSS-Vojisalv Kostunica and MP Bozidara Delic – SRS parliamentary group. If any of the parliamentary groups still have information about an authorised representative, please provide us with that information, so that we can inform the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the ratification of the Optual Protocol with the Convention against Torrera and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating penalties and procedures, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Cyprus on Co-operation in Defence, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Defence and the Government of Kuwait, represented by the Ministry of Defence, on joint co-operation in the area of defence and on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the readmission of persons not legally staying and with the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Albania on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Albania on the Republic of Albania on the readmission of persons not legally staying. (13.10 hours) ) Does the representative, Mr Dragan Sutanovac, the defence minister want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58660	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, all four laws are of great importance, but I don't think I have attended a session of parliament long ago where very clear and precise bill proposals are in place, where we expect that practically all parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament will support these bill proposals and vote for them. I would like to point out briefly that with two draft laws, confirming an agreement with Kuwait and Cyprus, practically Serbia is given a round space from Kuwait through Iraq, Turkey, Cyprus, Greece, and all the way to Austria. With all countries, we have signed a co-operation agreement in the area of defence and this is one major contribution of the defence system to our country's international political position. We believe it is extremely important if there is an agreement that these contracts are confirmed in parliament without votes against, because we think that this is something that will raise our credibility in these countries as well. These contracts are practically legal grounds for further co-operation. This is just the beginning, and we hope that they will be enough to develop both military - economic co-operation and co-operation in the area of defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58661	Does the rapporteur of the Justice and Administration Committee, MP Bosko Ristic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the Defence and Security Committee's rapporteur, MP Dusan Bajatovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58662	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, of these laws currently on the agenda of the assembly, it seems to me to be one of the most important draft laws supplementing the Law on ratification of the optional protocol, with a convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings. For a full six years, it was due to pass to arrive on the agenda of this legislative proposal, which envisions a national mechanism of prevention against torture. Indeed, Serbia is too slow to change, too slow to change those standards, and I think it is unacceptable. However, given that the formation of this national mechanism is on the agenda today, it is commendable, if it could not have been before, it is good that it is now. Unfortunately, within a year of the ratification of the option protocol, the convention against torture, this national mechanism should also be formed. So we have exceeded all deadlines, and those foreseen by international agreements, as well as that deadline that obliges us as a member of this society to change this society and to change the value systems. Unfortunately, violence is rooted in this society, both in politics and in school, and in the family. It is that the state has a certain monopoly in terms of repression, in terms of force, but if this repression, this force, does not put into certain contexts, in certain frameworks and procedures, there is torture in this case, and then we have a serious problem with those maintenance of prison sentences, by educational and correctional institutions, as well as when carrying out certain evidence, i.e. a certain procedure in front of the police or in prison. What is the predominant objective, and what is the task of this national torture prevention mechanism? It is to pay attention and to control the treatment of the persons in custody, as well as the treatment of all those persons deprived of liberty. This applies, therefore, to all persons who are in custody, to persons who are forced to receive treatment at certain institutions, to minors who are located in educational and correctional institutions, and to whom the person who has assumed that function of the national prevention mechanism provides certain opinions and suggestions regarding existing laws, as well as laws which are in the procedure of adoption, in fact torture, i.e. the prevention of torture and other non-human and demeaning treatments, i.e. proceedings. I would in particular now refer to violence in general, such as violence that is so expressive and so universal in Serbia in everyday life, therefore, not only this specific type of violence committed by the state through its organs called torture, but even violence that is so devastating for the further development of society and state. Violence is particularly expressed towards women, against marginalised groups such as poor, old, Roma. Violence is expressed toward children, therefore, according to that part of the population that is somehow less protected and in some ways discriminated against because of certain properties and because of its specific position in society and state. A very worrying situation is that in Serbia over the past year 30 women have been killed by their partners, husbands, out-of-marriage wives and this is really dangerous and says a lot about how this society refers to violence at all. But even more devastating is that 28 women were killed in the first six months of this year, also by their partners. So this violence is escalating and taking on an ever greater wave, and we don't see that the state has made a particular effort to prevent this violence, to prevent this violence from happening, or to adequately take those measures that can protect victims in these violences. It is not just enough to pass laws, it takes much more than that, among other things, and to respond adequately, that all those who have this responsibility, when reporting domestic violence and responding in good time and in the right way. I would suggest paying particular attention to how all these elements in the fight against violence are linked. So it's about the courts, the parliament, the prosecution, the police, the welfare centres. Is there some coordination between all these branches of government such as executive power, parliament and judicial authority? Was there a co-ordination at the local district between the D.A., the police, the welfare center and the courts? Is there some co-operation, and are there protocols that regulate co-operation, or organise the response to reported violence? It doesn't exist. There are no proper protocols, there is no proper practice, and there is no time to limit ourselves to laws. This is one of the reasons why it is good to find this national anti - torture mechanism in today’s congregation agenda. I would cite a very bad and tragic example that happened last week in Zrenjanin when a young police officer died while performing his duty, and the perpetrator of the murder is a young man who was in a relapse, so this is his third murder in his 30s, and the officer who succumbed to the wounds is also here somewhere in his 30s. So, what does this tragic example say? First of all, he's talking about how the state reacted when that minor first appeared at the time of the first murder. The young man who just killed a police officer was a minor. He was convicted, i.e. he was scheduled to be sentenced to prison in juvenile penitentiary. What happened then, that shortly after he left that facility, he repeated the crime of murder and ended up with this crime in Zrenjanin last week? What happened to the work of the authorities in all these institutions with that young man who committed such serious crimes? Was there anything about his resociation? Obviously, it wasn't working, because he repeated that crime twice the first time he did it. If no resociation is done, unless the focus is put on resociating when serving a prison sentence, in that case, there is a prison inclusion, or simply accepts that crime model and the one who entered that institution as perpetrator of the crime comes out of it only by confirming his status and in no case can he become part of a society that will be able to resist certain future temptations and will simply repeat the crime. This national mechanism against torture, among other things, provides for control of how this resociation of those persons who are deprived of freedoms is done, therefore, whether they are acting as the law also provides for the internal regulations of those institutions. It is very important to see timely shortcomings and to respond in good time. I expect this national mechanism to be implemented in this way and treated and carried when it begins to control all these institutions, prisons, psychiatric clinics and everything else that is related to the restriction of the freedom of certain persons, certain persons. In prisons, it is evident that there is a certain violence committed by other people who suffer punishment. In addition to this violence, which is possible and which is recognised as being carried out by staff, i.e. those employed in that institution. In addition to this violence that is obvious and which can be detected and easily detected, there is also some latent violence that is not so easy to spot and to recognize and this violence is overly linked to corruption. The corruption is again linked to the position of all the staff and all those employees who are employed in prisons and other institutions. Therefore, we are going back to the same topic of what is happening in terms of the anti-corruption strategy, because the very corruption in prisons can generate a certain type of torture, because unless this corruption is settled in terms of buying some mild treatment or privilege for the benefit of prisoners, in which case, it can suffer certain consequences and often not recognises this type of torture and it would be good to also consider it. Therefore, when we talk about torture, we must not forget a few important factors, which is to make it transparent for the administration, which is the head of certain institutions, institutions and prisons, to make life in these institutions and institutions, or prisons, transparent procedures for all who are on the agenda of the daily lives of these penitentiary officers and jailers. So transparency is one of the essential factors that can produce certain results against torture. In addition to this transparency, it is very important to do something, when certain data are obtained, whether it is about torture, whether it is about corruption or any other illegal conduct of overstepping the official position, which is actually what is very important for the national mechanism of prevention against torture. Because in the event of a timely response and in the event of timely action, the situation will not even scavenge, and in fact there will be a more serious torture that violates human rights and those people who find themselves in prison detention. So prevention is always better than that torture, and unfortunately, with us organs most often react and act when damage happens, when that torture happens, and then it's a late procedure and a late reaction because it can't fix what's broken, what's done. The damage exists and can only be punished or only media is followed by something that has put one's human rights at risk. That's why it's a good thing we finally decided to form this national mechanism against torture. It is good that this jurisdiction is given to the Citizens' Protector, who already has certain powers regarding the control of events in all these institutions, prisons and police stations. If you take this job seriously, you can expect good results. So it won't just be in the torture domain because torture is not something that is separate and independent at all from violence that is so dominant in Serbia and by solving the problem in one segment we will actually be able to solve the general problem of violence in society. It is only important to recognise the need not to stop all of this at some media promotion, not to stop at one general propaganda, that is to say, how advanced we have made in relation to the approximation of European standards, but to install these European standards, in addition to being built into laws, to be incorporated into all these laws and regulations of these conventions and optional protocols against torture. It is very good that this part should also be a fundamental element in the behaviour and of those people who are on the ground and on police stations and when they are deprived of the freedom of the person who is being held as well as those who go to prison sentences, and normally that includes those persons who are referred to mandatory treatment in certain neuro-psychiatric hospitals. So it's very good for us as a society to become sensitive, highly sensitive about this kind of human rights threat.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58663	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58664	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is always an opportunity when we face agreements that define bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and other states in the area of defence, to discuss, of course, the situation in the defence system in general, but of course also the policy run by the Ministry of Defence when it comes to international relations and in general the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia in the area of defence with other and countries, as well as other organisations. There is no doubt that international co-operation in the area of defence is an important segment of policy security, as it certainly needs to protect its security interests with such co-operation and can protect them with quality co-operation. As it is known, here are these unfortunate events in Norway that have confirmed that security is indivisible, is that the problems that arise in the world is something that requires the common effort of all states to solve them. Of course, in addition to this segment and the general security challenges and threats affecting all countries, there are concrete national security interests that each country needs to realise and take care of, of course, when it comes to different international relations on defence and security. The Republic of Serbia led one in the previous period, let's say an active policy when it comes to the conclusion of different types of co-operation contracts and what's being asked as a question are actually the consequences or effects of these contracts, is actually the question and the quality of these contracts and the realisation of these contracts and all that it means. In this context, it is also necessary to observe today's contract and the quality of these contracts and the content and facts to which they will, given the announcements, and especially in relation to one of these two contracts, the memorandum, the expectations, whether they will give those effects that are expected. At the end of the line, why what was announced and what was the basic motive, we'll probably talk about it, and something the minister will say, didn't come up in this contract. I would refer to several segments of the general security policy when it comes to relations between RS and international co-operation. Here we can see both bilateral agreements and RS participation in various peace missions and relations between RS and other military alliances and organisations. What was often the subject of debate here in the National Assembly is the question - to which extent our security interests are realised or are placed when all these aspects of international co-operation are considered. We'll start with bilateral contracts, which, as I said, was really a lot in the previous period. What falls into the eyes is the fact that the realisation of these contracts, i.e. The degree of co-operation in the area of defence was such that a number of countries with which Serbia stepped up co-operation in the area of defence were simply singled out. There are a number of countries with which this co-operation is essentially rudimentary or at a very low level. Of course, when we look at the overall security interests, then we ask the question, which our interests were to deepen or intensify this co-operation in the area of defence with certain countries, and with other countries, we either do not have that co-operation, or it is just being announced, or is actually on the side of our country and other countries that co-operation is at a very low level. What falls into the eyes is that very intense co-operation has been with the United States and Turkey. That's what dominated the previous period. Especially, let's say for a few months, co-operation with the United States. We have had several different trainings, exercises, participations of our armies in exercises organised by both the European Command, the United States and representatives of the Guard Ohio, as well as joint exercises organised by America and Bulgaria. So, on the other hand, we had a very large number of realisations and meetings and plans. Here, one plan of a hundred points has been adopted, which will speed up and deepen co-operation with the United States. With the need for RS, as a military neutral state, to have as broad cooperation as possible with all countries, the issue is raised with the unsettled problems that we have with the US on the Kosovo and Metohija issues, which is our interest if we have defined the declaration of independence of KIM as the greatest threat to RS security, to deepen these relations in this way. So does Turkey. Of course, there are different types of donations, and the United States was also different types of exports. With regard to Turkey, too, several annual co-operation plans have been signed and simply single out the two countries in relation to even some other countries that have been promoted, as if they have had great co-operation with them, such as Italy, Germany. These two countries are extremely present in bilateral co-operation with RS. I personally express here the position of our parliamentary group, with the fact that we have this kind of problem regarding our territorial integrity and our security, the question is, why are we so intense and what are the concrete interests of developing this collaboration so intensively? On the other hand, when it comes to the Russian Federation, that co-operation is almost minimal. We have announcements of the last meetings that have been, that there will be an deepening of that co-operation. We have an announcement of the arrival of Chief of General Staff. So far, simply this collaboration has been absolutely minimal. It can be said that by the RS, there was no special interest. As far as RS's participation in relations with other security alliances and military organisations is concerned, we have talked about it more than once, and it is simply never a waste, especially when it comes to these international agreements. The fact that in the framework of the Partnership for Peace, then, co-operation with the NATO Pact, we have several issues that RS has not cleared up with the military alliance. On the one hand, it is the training of Kosovo's security forces, the biggest threat to RS security. On the other hand, we have, here, directly against the Kumanovo Agreement to withdraw KFOR from the RS border, specifically from Macedonia's border. On the other hand, we have statements from KFOR commanders, in fact in the spirit of what politicians say within the EU, that northern Kosovo is some kind of security threat that needs to be resolved. So everything that is certainly not in the security and security interests of the RS. Before all these issues are discussed, it is hard for us to move deeper into this cooperation. We saw the other day in statements concerning the planning and revision process, within which Serbia participates, that we are really deepening co-operation here. That's one topic we haven't talked about so much... (President:Member MP, I do not dispute that the topic is interesting, but is not the topic of the agenda. Please, Article 106) (Zoran Nikolic: How do you know that? ) (President: I ask the People's MP, Zoran Nikolic, not to throw it away. It is also prohibited by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I listen very carefully... ) (Zoran Nikolic: Because you are rude. ) (President: I ask the People's MP not to disturb the session and not to promote simplicity, indiscriminateness and indiscriminateness during the session of the National Assembly. It is not definitely prohibited by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but it is understood that someone who is a MP does not do so. Curses and offensive expressions when leaving the O.R. are inadmissible to anyone who considers himself a decent man. I'm asking you about the agenda. Article 106. There are four agreements on the agenda. ) In any case, the topic is international agreements and the topic is the issue of international military co-operation. These two agreements that are before us today are important, but they certainly have certain shortcomings or, in the end, have not defined these questions that are common to define. When it comes to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the field of defence, in Article 4, relating to the claim of damage "in the event of death or injury to personnel or property which may be committed to death or damage to the person or property resulting from any act or failure of the staff of the other party during the realisation of this Agreement", we felt it was necessary to specify how this damage could occur in this case. Here it is very inaccurate and very inconclusive that the damage will be borne by the party whose staff it is. We think different reasons can lead to damage in this case, and that should have been kind of specific here. The whole part relating to damages is very bad and very unfavourable and quite certain that it was not a clear motive why it was realised in this way. As for the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Defence and the Government of Kuwait, this memorandum is announced as an agreement that will bring Serbia a big deal. Some called him - so-called. Tank agreement. So it should open up the possibility for the Republic of Serbia to participate in the modernisation and remonting of 149 tanks in the Republic of Kuwait. The agreement was signed, the President of the Republic went to Kuwait, there was a minister present here, in all the media announced that the agreement was practically agreed, that the deal was agreed, etc. We have received here a far-reaching agreement which in no way defines the concrete interest of the Republic of Serbia in view of the announcement it was. So the media wrote that this job is worth $400m and that the Republic of Serbia will move very quickly to employ its industrial capacities and its defence industry and to realise this agreement. So I am opening this issue because the media said that the Republic of Serbia itself will not participate in this whole business but is mentioned a number of other countries. In particular, the "Defence" paper also wrote that all former SFRY republics, as well as Russia and France, will participate. Of course, it would be important, given the announcement of the job, that the minister said something about it because it was presented that this job was actually won when we got the contract. We haven't seen anything in this contract since that job. At the end of the line, not only did the media write about it but it also wrote the "Defence" paper, which is under the concrete influence of the defence ministry itself. So the question is, what's the status of this job, and is there something real about it? At the end of the line, if it is true that other countries will participate, what will be the concrete profit of the Republic of Serbia from this job? The issue is related to the complete issue and we also have the fact that it has been announced and that it has been said that Serbia has achieved, when it comes to co-operation in the area of defence and arms exports, a billion-dollar profit and $200 million. The essential question is, to what extent are these jobs realised, how much is the funds charged and in what way and where are these funds placed? Because that's very important. If we conclude different types of international agreements in the area of defence, or on this basis we are doing business or, in the end, we are building a series of agreements and we have no information on whether the transactions are realised and where the funds are directed in view of the information we received here in the National Assembly, considering a series of documents, that the state of arms and military equipment of the Republic of Serbia's Army is bad. We know that the Republic of Serbia has cut through the budget and through budget rebalances the military of the Republic of Serbia. But the jobs that were done and announced by the ministry needed to be quite certain to help solve these problems. Because one thing we're talking about is that jobs are looking, one thing is when jobs are done and one thing's done. If they're realised, where did the funds end? These are essential objections to the international agreements to be concluded. We have no information on what and how these agreements are implemented. It is a fundamental and key issue, all seeing the security interests of the Republika Srpska Army. We are all interested in keeping the Army of the Republic of Serbia strong and in keeping the security and defence of the Republic of Serbia stable and strong. But we have a series of problems that are not just the representatives of the opposition. In the latest interview, which is very interesting, the Director of the Defence Inspectorate, which is located on the Ministry of Defence's website, is about the failures that we have repeatedly pointed to here. It's been said that the active reserve project didn't come back to life. It is said: "The training of the third mission units is not covered by the training programme." So, the Third Mission of the Republic of Serbia, which is a factical aid to civilian authorities when it comes to emergency situations. It's said, "It's rare to train in night conditions and use of NHB weapons." So, simply, the problems that arise here in the National Assembly are not only something that the opposition MPs say but also the representatives of the Ministry of Defence or the highest authorities within the Ministry of Defence. In that sense, we need to look at the whole process. It's a good thing we have a lot of jobs. It's good to realize them. But does it matter if they're being realised and the means that we're getting are they focusing on modernising our weapons and military equipment? That's the key question we need to deal with here, and we need to talk about it. We do not have that information, as well as co-operation with the NATO Pact within the Partnership for Peace. There is nowhere to find information or information on security agreements signed with the EU. It doesn't exist anywhere. I don't see why it's a secret, and why hasn't any ministry or government of the Republic of Serbia pointed out? This is very important because they create a legal basis for the participation of members of the Republika Srpska Army in EU peacekeeping missions. Why is he hiding it? There are a number of problems that we often point out here and we want to talk about in the National Assembly. I say again, we respect the fact that international co-operation is needed, that Serbia should strengthen its international co-operation, but the effect of the agreement, the effect of these agreements, is such that we cannot say that they were successful in the end line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58665	Minister Sutanovac has his word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58666	I think it is a key elemental misunderstanding of what the agreement is and what part of the deal is being carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what part of the business is being carried out by enterprises, was a public enterprise of any other company that is part of the state-owned majority. I can't talk to you as a media representative because I'm not a media official about what the media has written and I think it would be unnatural to talk about it. On the other hand, I don't edit the "Defence" magazine, and believe me, I don't even influence editorial policy. I am pleased to see that you are using information from the Ministry of Defence's website and from the magazine "Defence", which shows a high degree of transparency in the work of the Ministry of Defence, which is why you, as a National MP, came to the situation for the first time so that you could get the knowledge you suspected, there were indications, and now you already have people who have been invited to talk about these indications in an effective and real way. What's important is to say -- these are not the defence department's contracts. These are the agreements of the two governments, where the Ministry of Defence signs certain agreements and under these agreements there will be no business. So these aren't business agreements. I'm sorry that you haven't had a chance to read the agreements before, based on which jobs have never been done, in the sense that they define jobs, but legal grounds have been created to create jobs between the two states, two governments or even two armies, that is, production capacities and those that are buyers. On the other hand, you might know as an MP that the Department of Defense, except that it promotes our defence industry through agreements that it makes and through our visits that have been in the past, see that you are satisfied, very active, too, not making the income from contracts made by state-owned companies. That's how it was 20 years ago, that's how it's gonna be in 10 years. The defence ministry has no income if Krusik, or "Freedom", or "Yugoimport" concludes a certain contract, on which they employ tens of thousands of Serbian people, who receive salaries, who work, etc. It would be very good if we had the money, but that kind of economy no longer exists in Serbia because there is a market economy, and we are not the ones who have the right to have that money, and it is somewhere quite logical, and I hope that you are too. What I don't understand here today, and I would certainly like it to be clear, is the relationship that MP groups will have under the agreements with Cyprus and Kuwait. I have the opportunity to see representatives of all parliamentary delegations coming to these receptions at various receptions both Cyprus and Kuwait will definitely ask me whether Serbia supported the co-operation agreement and who did not support the co-operation agreement, i.e. what is part of the friendly, brotherly people in Serbia that does not support the defence co-operation agreement, for example, with Cyprus? If that is the DSS, and I see that it is indicated that you are against it in the order of the MPs, where you said the DSS is against it, I would like you to say it clearly and loudly and that representatives of the Cypriot authorities who are here in the form of ambassadors, get that knowledge, exactly who is the one who talks about co-operation, who resents us some other co-operation, and makes it impossible to co-operate with the friendly country of Cyprus. On the other hand, on the other hand, I have tried to appeal to this high home to allow us to hold one, I will not say a lecture, one presentation where you would have the opportunity to fully inform yourself about what is going on at the Ministry of Defense and who, how, how much we co-operate, how many visits we had, who we opened, who we were coming to, where we were going, to see for yourself that what you're saying is a great delusion, because what you're saying isn't standing. The largest co-operation with America and Turkey in scope, no, it was bigger with Austria as well. I am pleased when, say, Danish or Norwegian prime ministers say the pillars of co-operation between the two countries are just co-operation in the area of defence, or Iraq, Algeria and many other countries. I'll remind you that this is the agreement we signed with China. I believe you'd find some sort of grudge in that agreement, but that didn't interfere with us doing it. On the other hand, we often talk about international co-operation. For the first time in Serbia or Belgrade's history, however you will, the defence minister of Brazil has come to sign such an agreement. We said to concentrate this year on subSaharan Africa, we had Nigeria, Namibia, we're planning Angola. So we plan to spread our influence, which is not only important from the aspect of the defence system, but is important from the aspect of positioning our entire country and our industry. When I say industry, I don't just mean the defence industry, I mean, I hope and I believe I'll get your support and the construction industry. The memorandum with Kuwait is very single, very simple, not many members. If you have read Article 3, you could easily understand what is opening up there as a possibility, and the field is so wide that if we have the opportunity to respond adequately to their needs, it is certain that some of what the media wrote will come true. I have to tell you, I don't control a single medium in any way. I'm glad when the media support it, I'm sorry when in the Serbian Parliament we don't have the support to hire Serbia in the way that is necessary, from those who are taking care of citizens the most, but I hope that by the end of the debate you will realize that it is in the interest, in the end of the debate, the citizens of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence, the state of Serbia, but also those who work in the defence industry, that this memorandum is confirmed in parliament in as much support as possible, and that the possibility to employ a large number of Serbian citizens is opened. On the other hand, I don't want to comment on business plans, that I'm telling you now who we're going to do the modernization of the tank and who's going to do it with. First of all, I'm not invited to do this, I'm not the director of the company, I'm not the manager of any sector, I'm the Secretary of Defence and as such I care about other things, and I support that, to the extent possible, our economy does everything, and even if it's not possible, that those economic capacities that exist and that, under certain qualities, prices and deadlines, will be the most accessible and allow us to make and save and earn at the same time, and I think it's something that's perfectly natural. Both agreements for me are not agreements that should in any way trigger debate in Serbia's parliament. On the contrary, I think these are agreements that we all should applaud, unrelated to who's in power, who's not. Secondly, you need to know that both agreements are concluded in agreement on both sides, that you can't put what you want, but the other side has its demands. Of course this is one, to say the fine line where we found ourselves in the common interest and it couldn't have been better for Serbia. We believe it's the best interest of both sides. After all, the agreement implies that both sides are satisfied. 'It is something that I would ask you to keep in mind and when you talk generally about the economy in Serbia or the defence industry, to realize that the defence minister, the fact is that we often act as commercial travelers, but we don't manage these systems, we don't have that money, that money is poured into a common register, whether it's a budget through profits or salaries of workers, investments, etc., but it's not something that I directly, personally or indirectly control. I think it's perfectly natural and most normal that just those in those factories make their own plans, get approval and make things real for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58667	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Palalic, there is no basis for replication. The minister only reasonedly explained everything that was your dilemmas, doubtless or not information or inadequate information. Mr. Bozidar Delic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58668	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have four laws on confirming the agreement and memoranda. As the first law to be laid down on the agenda, it is the draft law supplementing the Law on ratification of the optional protocol, with the Convention against Torres and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating penalties and proceedings. As far as the SRS is concerned, nothing here would be disputed. This law only has three members. However, we still need to draw attention to the use of some rogue terms, probably in translation. There is no way we could agree that our Citizens' Protector is doing the work of the national mechanism. Yet instead of this "mechanism" it took a more appropriate term to use in our language. On the other hand, some figures are given here as much as they will cost Serbian citizens in this year and next. We agree that the Protector should be given enough resources to do his job. A few days ago, when he was here, we said we expected him to do the job. The report mentions the engagement of experts in one place and provides journals for these experts. We're opposed to that, because if they're going to get this national mechanism four more members and, with all that the Citizens' Protector has, the appointment of doctors, the involvement of psychologists, etc., I don't think that's good and that would be a waste of money. But we have another, much more serious remark when it comes to this law. The reasons why this law is passed by emergency procedure, we are always opposed otherwise because the emergency procedure has lost all meaning with us, because everything is urgent in the state of Serbia. On December 1st 2005, Serbia ratified the option protocol with a convention against torture and other cruel inhumane demeaning penalties and procedures. As with all other signatories, it was required that within a year, no later than one year after the entry into force of that Protocol and its ratification establish or determine one or more bodies that will exercise practical control over this. She didn't do it. Gentlemen, who every day you talk about human rights and who talk about the European path how you can allow yourself to make such a failure and not do one basic thing for six years. In an option plan to meet the recommendations of the European Commission Annual Report 2010 to speed up candidate status by recommending 18 in chapter two of Human Rights and Minority Protection, you are also distracted from the fact that you are scheduled to establish a national prevention mechanism. Only when an expert mission for human and minority rights, which was in Serbia from 14 March to 18 March this year, was it recommended, in fact, to draw attention to the fact that we did not carry out such an important commitment. Then it came to the agenda. I think that this kind of behavior is unacceptable not to do something that is so simple for six years, which requires only writing those three members and our biggest observation is precisely in this way, in the way the state authorities have handled this problem that should have put this issue on the agenda long ago. Furthermore, we have two laws on the agreement, i.e. a memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Kuwait. First, when it comes to the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus in co-operation in the area of defence. This seems to be Mr. Minister, because I still think this worked for the government's needs, respected the SRS' suggestions, and we have two agreements with countries that have not recognised KIM, which are friendly states and with which we have common interests. I must say for the first law that it is a good law, or good agreement, that it is done and based on the principles of equality and reciprocity of common interests and in accordance with national legislation and the principles of international law. We would also like other agreements with some other countries to be made in a similar way. Like, I always remember the SOFA deal. When we compare the SOFA agreement and when we compare this, it's the sky and the earth. The agreement protects the interests of the Republic of Serbia and absolutely everything is done on an equal footing. The areas in which Article 5 will be realized are absolutely supported. Practically all areas are listed, but in the end it is said that in all other areas that are of common interest, the way in which co-operation is also something we welcome this time, because we believe that this is the way to be done with all countries. However, when it comes to Article 10, when we were on the Committee on Defence and Security, there was probably no Minister, probably that he would still answer that question, I have made an objection to paragraph 1, and I will now read this: "The staff of the sending party is obliged to respect the laws, procedures, regulations and customs of the sending party during their participation in activities carried out in the territory of the receiving party under this agreement". We think it's a mistake here, that it should be when the second time in the text mentions the page of the sender is actually supposed to be a foreign recipient, because this if it were like this, it's illogical. There's something like this in the SOFA agreement where the power is demonstrated, etc., and if we work in mutual interest then there must be a foreign recipient here. If you read further points 2 and 3 logically, this is the only way it would be right. I expect Mr. Minister to make it right, but since we think it's a mistake, and this is essential, even if you look at this, it's not just a technical mistake, because if this were to remain this way, then it's a fundamental mistake. Mr. Minister, I note that almost every document we've received lately has been pointed to certain mistakes. It is unacceptable to send to the Assembly documents in which mistakes are made, for, my assessment, this is a disrespect for the congregation. If in the first reading we discover that it is a mistake, it is certainly your associates or those who write these laws and other acts that have to read multiple times at different levels and that it is no longer happening in the future. Obviously, when it comes to an agreement with Cyprus, when you look at it, it is also done because our soldiers are staying in the territory, so it is also good that the provisions of this agreement are being resolved and everything that can happen on a peace mission. As for the second law on confirmation of memos, we also think that it is done as normally should be done, that it is absolutely on one level basis and in the interest of both sides, so that practically all members are through these goals, here one of the colleagues was talking about this cooperation in the field of military industry, etc. It may also be seen through this agreement that the agreement gives certain grounds that these contracts can be concluded and going in that direction, which is good anyway. We also consider the way the agreement is implemented, which through official visits, consultations, training, seminars, workshops, etc. will also be considered to be one of the methods, i.e. how these objectives can be achieved. In addition to this one remark on the previous law that we believe is essential and that we expect it to be corrected, this time we say that we have a memorandum and a law that has been done and adequately protects the interests of the Republic of Serbia. We always note that it would be good if, when it comes to some other larger, more powerful countries, we had similar agreements with them. When it comes to the fourth law, it is a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying in Serbia's territory. We have also asked on the Committee on Defence and Security about this - how many people from the Republic of Albania are in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or how many such persons have been caught in that illegal stay? But gentlemen, we also consider the territory of the Republic of Serbia as KIM, and then we think that this agreement with the Republic of Albania is premature, especially when we say this, in 1999, that our current government will never mention, on the side of the aggressor and NATO pact was also the Republic of Albania. According to international law, it is certainly placed in aggressors, and it was an aggressor, as the Albanian military directly participated in the attacks on our country. And because we didn't end up getting an M.P. answer to the question -- how many people we have in Albania. We know that you here through this law only consider the persons caught here in Serbia's territory, without KIM. I find it inadmissible, because in this way you already consider KiM territory not the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but for me it would be even more interesting how much more interesting it has caught a Serbian citizen in an illegal residence in Albania? I expect that after this discussion, you will give us answers to these questions. But since one question will in no way be answered, which is how many citizens of Albania are illegally staying at KIM? Here, some of my colleagues say 300,000, I know there's probably tens and tens of thousands. Then we think we just can't vote for this law. We don't think he was supposed to be on the agenda. On the one hand, it's good that lately we've been discussing all the agreements, the memos, maybe in a time period of six months to a year when they're signed. As long as last year or before, we ratified some agreements from SFRY, then SRJ, so some of them were 15 years old, which is inadmissible. I certainly support that we must be much more up-to-date on this plan, but when it comes to this agreement, this agreement should wait until we can adequately resolve the question of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58669	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58670	Just for a little while. Given that you have a grudge that you say is essential, I have to say that it's really a technical mistake, because if you look at an agreement that's signed, or a Memorandum with Kuwait, you'll see in the same Article 10 in English what an original signed agreement looks like. Of course, someone in the typing or translation has made a mistake, but I don't think that someone should get hurt right now because of some fundamental disturbance in the translation of the agreement that's original in English and the way you say it should be, it already is. On the other hand, because of the manipulation of the public you tried at the beginning, I must tell you that we are not encouraged by your ideas of signing an agreement with some countries more or less. I don't suppose you know when these agreements were signed in 2010 with Cyprus, with Kuwait in April of this year. But also, since it will come to ratification and some other agreements such as Brazil, Spain, Greece, China, there are other countries that have not recognised KIM, we have largely been with those countries in some past period, before you spoke in parliament and paved the way for our co-operation. On the other hand, something I would like to draw attention to, professionals above all, these agreements refer to bilateral co-operation, not multilateral co-operation, or not to members of our military who are in Cyprus under the UN's terms and flags. We have an agreement with the UN through which we are present on peacekeeping missions, not bilateral agreements with countries where we are present with peacekeeping missions. So this agreement in no way treats the question of our peacemakers. The issue of readmission, I think it is an extremely important issue for Serbia. The question – how many people entered Kosovo unauthorized in 1999, you probably know best, at the time you were highly positioned in the state apparatus at the time and I assume you know these data better. But this question treats exactly those who are unauthorized in our territory. If an analysis of how much an unauthorized Serbian citizen lives in Albania's territory, then we would enter the situation if Germany did not sign such an agreement with us, and it is their interest that those who reside in their territory go back to their home unauthorizedly, much greater than our interest to return the Germans who came to Serbia, to Germany. I suppose there are no cases like that. So, it's hard to compare that, whose interest is greater, but I'm sure that the MUP has put a great deal of interest in signing this agreement, no matter how much we don't have police security and authority in the KIM area, and we can't access any legislation based on the exact number of people who are unauthorized in that space. It's one legacy from 1999, one legacy that we obviously cannot change, so if we wait for it to change, I'm afraid Serbia would come into big problems exactly the way some other countries have been in trouble. I remind you that in the European perspective, Serbia as a country that is moving closer to the EU will certainly be the destination of a large number of people who want to go in the direction of the EU, the possibility of increasing the number of asylum seekers in Serbia will be much greater than it is now, that is, it will certainly happen in the coming time and the more we have these readmission agreements with countries from which we assume that their citizens will come to Serbia, in order to extend further to Western Europe, it will be easier for us to solve these problems of people who will be in our territory, because this is one legal and legitimate way to solve these problems and any other way that I suppose would have done it with some radical methods, it simply is not acceptable and cannot be implemented. I have an understanding unless you vote for something, but I just didn't understand whether you voted for a Memorandum of Cooperation in the field of defence with Kuwait and whether you voted for an agreement with Cyprus, because it is extremely important for us to know whether the Serbian Radical Party supports co-operation with these two friendly and brotherly countries with our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58671	Mr. Delic, you've got two and a half minutes left. You can within that time frame.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58672	Mr. Minister, when it comes to this deal with Kuwait, when I said a fundamental mistake, it is essential, although, as you say, it is technical. We didn't have an English version this time, we only had a Serbian translation. And you have to conclude for yourself that it's a fundamental mistake, which happened in a technical breakdown. When you say it like that, then we accept it, and certainly we're not that someone who just translated it or knocked on his head, but that last filter of these documents, especially the documents that come into the congregation, so after that, when someone's ticking, I guess someone needs to read it and see if it's okay. At least in my day it was a practice. As for the rest of this, especially as far as Albania is concerned, we are always wondering how many Serbs are living there without documents? I know many Serbs have been staying, but if everyone had ended up in a yellow house, that information from the MUP would be important to us. There were so many Serbs, but they didn't return them to us in pieces. As far as this data is concerned, it is important for us to know how many Albanians have been caught illegally staying in Serbia's territory, but only when we are... You mention 1999, so, yes, in 1999, we did everything in KIM to prevent their citizens from entering from Albania, and we had, as you know, success, even though they were backed by NATO's pact, even though it was the famous operation "Strela". You should read "The New York Times" from June 1, 1999, so you'll see, the title is "Operation Arrow turned into porridge," which was about somewhere in my zone. I think you understand, though, what we're talking about here. We speak, regardless of what we have a problem with Albanians coming into Serbia's territory to go across Serbia to another European country and there is a way to solve it, but to sign a deal like this, when there is no limit between Albania and KIM as part of our territory, I think it is premature and it should wait for another time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58673	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58674	Just short and simple. The last filter that actually needs to check documents from the government that are coming to parliament is Parliament, and that's why you're gathering here to change if something's wrong, if something's wrong. However, in order to discuss fundamental mistakes, we would have to know which fundamental error would have been made by that error in the judicial translation that would not have been treated between Cyprus and Serbia, because the official agreement was signed in English, in which there is no such error, so there is no fundamental error, no matter who made it. I think it's simply not correct, because it's a mistake in which only some of the circumstances made a mistake in typing or translation. Of course, if you want that someone to be punished, I think it would be a great shame because that kind of mistake happens to everyone. (Božidar Delic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58675	There's no basis for replication. (Božidar Delic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure then. ) Please, don't just abuse, please, reporting to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58676	Please, I just need five seconds. Mr. Minister, will the English text be published in "The Official Messenger" or in Serbian?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58677	We move on to the participation schedule in the work of the MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the proposals for the laws referred to in points 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda. I give my word to MP Milic Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, unlike my colleagues, I'm not going to talk about defense conventions, so I'm going to stick to this convention against torture, so on this option protocol. At first, I must say that it is very good that, by supplementing the Law on the ratification of the optional protocol, the Citizens' Protector for the conduct of the affairs of the national torture prevention mechanism is determined because it is the most natural solution, because in the description of its affairs and dealing with this topic from this section. In my opinion, when we talk about torture, I don't think there's room to talk about torture in our prisons at all. There is neither as institutional nor as a systemic phenomenon, but what exists in our prisons is the individual appearances of inhuman or sometimes humiliating and cruel behavior. This is not just being reported by public information funds, it is being written in their analysis and reports by NGOs dealing with this problem. What is most important to me and what is the biggest problem in prisons is the overcrowding and rather unconditional conditions of the stay of persons deprived of freedom in our prisons because they can freely say, they can be subdued by a humiliating one. Today, the capacity of our prisons is about 7,000 people deprived of freedom. If I am not mistaken, there are some 12,000 people in them today, and the conditions for their stay are not adequate. When I say this, I'm primarily talking about the mass of persons deprived of liberty having no elemental conditions. So there are no beds, they sleep on mattresses. It's not a rare phenomenon that even there are beds on three floors. The additional problem is that these persons are staying in the wet rooms, which are unlit, in which there is insufficient access to both light and air, and if they apply all those standards that are proposed to EU prison standards, which would mean that every person who is deprived of freedom belongs to four square metres and eight meters of cubic meters, this would mean that the capacity of our prisons today is not 12,000, the number of persons present, but the capacity of 4,500 persons deprived of liberty. This is today a major problem that Serbia faces. Instead, every prisoner in Serbia's prison wastes about two metres square and it is not a rare situation for up to 10 people to stay in a room of 20 square metres. In addition to lack of space, the big problem when we talk about this face category is the lack of trained professional personnel working in prison institutions. I mean not only by the guards, but by the doctors. It's not a rare case that, for example, only one doctor comes to 1,300 closed faces. We have a situation at a specialist prison hospital where there are about 300 patients, and at any time there are 700 patients of severe psychiatric patients with whom one doctor and three nurses are on duty. It is a situation that is not acceptable, but we have to look at this problem on the other hand because the receptions of persons working in prisons are extremely low and are not proportionate to the type and weight of jobs they perform and therefore it is very difficult to find an adequate professional staff who would be willing to work in these conditions at all. In the Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector, which we discussed here a few days ago, we had the opportunity to hear that the detention measure in Serbia is completely misunderstood and that detention is considered as punishment before the trial itself, that very often it is pronounced and that the premises intended for the stay of persons in custody are absolutely inadequate and that there are insufficient. That's what it said, I wasn't quoting, paraphrasing, in the Civil Protection Report. How often the arrest determines best data that since 2008, out of the total number of convicted persons and persons admitted to jail for up to three years, 34% were in custody during the criminal proceedings. So here we're talking about a pretty common measure of detention that, unfortunately, is completely misunderstood. Of course, I'm going to talk about that the Civil Protection Officer's report also said that those who are minors who are detained at the same time are housed with adult detainees, which is also unacceptable if there is no approval of a competent judge for minors. All of this points to the unenviable position of persons deprived of liberty and, of course, to the fact that their basic human rights are absolutely compromised by such an unconditional stay in such rooms. In 2010, the government adopted a strategy on discharge, if I'm not mistaken, capacity in prisons, but the strategy is not applied, as is not applied to a number of other strategies of which I will only mention that strategy to encourage birth, for example, which is also not applied, and is an extremely good strategy, but it is not applied and it is unfortunately a dead letter on paper. It shall not be applied because it requires certain funds. The strategy also states it is necessary to build new accommodation facilities. In order to build new accommodation facilities, it is necessary to have money for that. Money does not exist because of funding or mistakes, because money or money intended primarily or for such cases goes to finance various errors of judicial reform and the existence of some institutions in this country, such as the Republic War Crimes Prosecutor, which instead of doing their job make a number of mistakes in their work that qualify them so far, but for absolute abolition. Now that the last Hague indictee has gone to The Hague, I think their mission should be completed completely. Of course, no one, not even the professional public, the legal public or the Serbian public at all, is clear about what the purpose of its existence is, after all the indignity it has caused us. We'll only remember the case of Purda, Jurisic, Ganic. Should I now mention the latest case of Nada Sakic or the recently acquittal to Sandor Kepir, which was brought by the Hungarian court, and because the case which was the jurisdiction of the Serbian prosecutor's office was brought to the Hungarian court? Further questions are raised, if this is the Republic War Crimes Prosecutor's Office that needs to carry out the mission for which it exists – why didn't it do anything at the trial of all those KLA members who were committing real torture against Serbian victims in private camps and in private prisons in KIM territory? Today it is clear that here I have data that private prisons and camps where Serbs have been abused and tortured are located in the village of Jezero near Urosevac, in the building of the agricultural cooperative of the village of Maćina near Orahovac, in the area of Lake Batlova near Podujevo, in the village of Malishevo, where exactly who the warden of that prison was known. He was a certain Jacob Foti from the Black Lug. Furthermore, what happens to a private prison in the village of Lablane, where the wardens of that prison were also brothers Abdulji and Abazi? So, besides our War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, these are absolutely not crimes that deserve their attention, nor deserve to be prosecuted at all. This prosecution has also done nothing for neither the processing nor the trafficking of human organs in KIM, and we will all admit that it is one of the most monstrous crimes that has happened in our recent history. Is there even a worse torture than the one that was made to wave at Serbs whose organs were removed and so let die in the most terrible pains and pains? Instead of now, so, when Dick Marty's report already exists and now that Dick Marty's report, they give one particular incentive and simply do some shifts in this area, what does it do? It has increasingly advocated that an investigation into human organs trafficking should take over EULEX, although it knows that EULEX does not have any capacity to prosecute such a crime, nor has it any jurisdiction to take on certain investigative actions outside the KIM, nor has it any programme of witness protection that is crucial in this case. That is why it is necessary for this most monstrous crime committed, where an independent UN-sponsored investigation is conducted, more specifically the Security Council. I am fully convinced that if EULEX were to conduct such an investigation, the outcome of that investigation would be absolutely the same as the case we had the chance to see how it ended a few days ago. It's about the case of Shandoor Kepira, who, unfortunately, was released from all kinds of responsibility for every crime committed in World War II. It's about a Hungarian Nazi. If we want the outcome of this investigation that EULEX would possibly be the same, then our War Crimes Prosecutor's Office should continue to insist that they take the lead on such an investigation. Of course, what shocked me, when it comes to this case, which none of the Serbian officials found appropriate to react to this published verdict, but was literally forced by the President of the Republic, after four days of giving the verdict, to make this announcement. Not for any serious state, for a country that respects its history, for a country that holds its reputation, both in the country itself and outside the international community, such an indifferent attitude towards its own victims is absolutely unacceptable. That is why it is necessary to show determination and what is more important -- the will that we all work together to try in every way possible to influence this most monstrous crime in Serbia's latest not only Serbian but also European history, to conduct an independent investigation under the auspices of the UN Security Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58679	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58680	Ladies and gentlemen, although the SRS is probably the only party in the Republic of Serbia that advocates the concept of security based on the ODKB and the concept represented by the Russian Federation in terms of further regrouping in the area, we have studied all these agreements and agreements very neutrally and unsecuredly, and we believe that they differ and that you simply have one bad agreement, and we openly say, with Albania and we think that it is both legal and political. We have one agreement, we have the Convention-Option Protocol with the Tortocra Convention, which is essentially inapplicable. Why? Because, you saw, a few days ago, there was a Guardian of Citizens here who was obliged to implement this option protocol, and he simply has no practical options, although he has a basis in the laws, that and a lot less of things out, as they say, until the end. A third agreement that is good, but which will not be fully implemented because of the EU, as we would like is an agreement with Cyprus. In particular, as regards the option protocol, in addition to the Convention against Tortre, we see that it has little to do with European law, with the aquimuner, with this pathetic statement of compliance with the aquimuner, it is already trying to commit to the EU with the action plan and to submit the European Commission's report to the Republic of Serbia, which, as you know, is Mr Deger's duty and I think it is inappropriate because, first of all, this Convention refers in a legal sense to the institution covered by the UN. So, I think little of the EU has to do with it and that this is an inappropriate explanation of this option protocol. As we have said, we are not engaged in demagogy and pulsism, and we believe that for the Republic of Serbia's budget, this is not a large amount of money that will be allocated to these four vehicle advisers, etc. Again, we say, our experience with the work of the Citizens' Protector and with all the problems he faces in his work, you saw a few days ago we talked about how simply and despite several applications by Mr. Jankovic, there is no way of affecting Mr. Alexander Vuksanovic, Director of the Republic Insurance Office, but we will talk about it when the health laws come. So we suspect and unfortunately think that, we're sure that it won't be able to be fulfilled until the end. As for the Agreement with Albania, I must say on the legal side, it is more than incomprehensible. Is it not clear that the territory to which the Agreement applies is not clear whether KIM is part of the Republic of Serbia? Whether it is a quasi state or part of Albania, the very title of the Agreement is not to be declared on the territory in which the agreement applies. Every law school student, already in the first year has a duty to introduce law, and then he is obliged to learn what is the definition of the line between terms, you probably have lawyers at the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Police and you know that Mr. Chavosky defines it as one difference between related terms. It is not clear here what the Agreement refers to and from the legal point of view that, you will admit, scandalous and shows that simple contracts concluded in the Republic of Serbia are incomplete from the legal point of view, because there is simply one pressure from the EU, which leads to this simply unclear laws, especially this bill with Albania. Also, as far as this Treaty is concerned with Albania, there is a right static and evolutionary interpretation. The agreements with Albania, as far as we can see in article 19, have been concluded indefinitely. So, there are more options for whether it will be applied in the way the EU thinks it will, and I say responsibly that we in the SRS are confident that the EU, which means more than four-fifths of the EU member states, see so-called. The state of Kosovo for someone who will be an EU member and who thinks that quasi is the fabric of the state, of course we don't, we rely on the UN, we rely on the preamble of our Constitution. However, if you look at the Lisbon Treaty and in this sense we can interpret this agreement with Albania, you will see that since 2014 a blocking minority for the EU Council of Ministers will only be six countries. I remind you, it is only five countries against Kosovo being recognised as a state. After 2017, the Lisbon Treaty stipulates that the blocking majority of the Council of Ministers, and you know for sure and it is also your job to lead us to the EU, that the blocking majority of the Council of Ministers, which is above the European Commission and above all here are so glorified institutions and representatives, is the blocking majority of 15 member states. So, whether that is not difficult to predict in 2014, in 2017, the Council of EU Ministers will happen to make such a decision that will in fact recognise Kosovo as an independent state. It is a reality that stems from the Lisbon Treaty and that no neutral and unsecured lawyer will be able to deny. So it's about a contract, which you trust me, in a few years it will come back as a boomerang legal and political system of the Republic of Serbia. It can also be said that there is a firm view of the Republic of Serbia that this is out of the question, that we will not recognise Kosovo etc. However, I must note that simply the signator of this agreement proposes the division of Kosovo and Metohija, of course said it was a personal position, and we have a so-called one here. An opposition party that says we don't know what we're going to do with Kosovo and Metohija, we have no position. But, you know, when someone has no position then takes a stand from someone else, from the EU, from most EU countries, it means that they will take this position by these four-fifths of the EU member states. So that's quite clear and all the other phrases are delusions about so-called. European path, European future and that we will experience better etc. etc. These are facts, this is one legal interpretation of this agreement with Albania, and I think it's simply something that's going to happen within an accelerated period. The minister was not there, I said that the agreement with Cyprus is good, unlike with Albania, and we, of course, disagree with the minister in terms of strategic direction, where the Republic of Serbia should go. I say again, we are for this convention on European security, Mr. Medvedev, but we believe that with Cyprus, as with a friendly country, relations should certainly be maintained. However, we are well-intentioned to suspect that the agreement will not be met until the end because it simply will not be given by the EU. We believe that the preamble to this agreement is good, I don't know if you put it in or the Cyprus side, that one call to the UN Charter is being made, and that's good because the UN Charter in article 55 is talking about the equality of all peoples, which is obviously not the case with our people, with the Republic of Serbia, because we are the least said second-rate partner so-called. The EU. The interpretation of this agreement with Cyprus is said to be, and the minister has said it correctly, that it will be a kind of comprehensive co-operation, not only between the defence ministry but between the two governments and again we say it is good. However, we again believe that Cyprus is like a country that has a lot of similar problems like the Republic of Serbia can also be an educational example of what will happen in the future and what should be the direction of the Republic of Serbia in the further events in which we spoke in the previous part. What exactly am I talking about? You know for a fact that in 1974, Turkey invaded the Republic of Cyprus and then expelled about 200,000 Greeks, residents of Cyprus. About 36% of the territory was occupied, and 18% of the population was of Turkish origin, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija and SRJ. There were these minorities who did a good part of the Separatist movement. What happened in the meantime? Cyprus joined the EU in 2004, but there was no unification of the island, on the contrary, you certainly know the ministers that it happened so-called. The unification plan, 9900 pages if I am not mistaken, which is proposed only one day before the referendum by the Greek Cypriots, in Nicosia. What, you have to admit the irresistible reminder of Ramboi. Greek Cypriots in the referendum 76% rejected the plan because he, otherwise, the authors of the rights are Great Britain and America, he predicts that 40,000 Turkish soldiers remain in the northern part of the island, that 120,000 inhabited people from Turkey remain in the occupied part of the island and that the scandal would be legal and complete to abolish the interim parliament of Greek Cypriots, the presidential council if I am not mistaken and the Supreme Court. So, a disastrous plan, which, of course, the Turkish Cypriots accepted by the vast majority, and the Greek Cypriots refused. So that the disaster would not be complete, and that the plan to reunify Cyprus would not have been adopted in the UN Security Council, not one member of the EU, nor the United States, but the veto was invested by the Russian Federation. That tells you everything. You have a country that is in the EU, you have a country that is maximumly involved in the EU system, in the Euro-Atlantic system, of course not in NATO, but when the question came whether the rights of Greek Cypriots would be protected, whether aggression would be legalised by Turkey, only the Russian Federation remained to defend the interests of Greek Cypriots. I think that is our well-intentioned advice for you, that it can simply be an educational experience for the Republic of Serbia, for further steps around Kosovo and Metohija, because you will admit that we can talk about so-called. lobbying, about what happened in the '90s, who did it, not guilty, but here we need to talk about the future. You must know that one of the largest lobbies in the United States is now Greek. It is considered even among the top three and there are more Greek emigrants in the United States than all emigrants from the former republics of Yugoslavia. So it's something that is simply incomparable with all our efforts, with your efforts, with efforts before and which will be because, simply if they failed, there I will be completely concrete, to unite Cyprus and that this aggression is literally neutralized by Turkey, then we will never succeed. I guarantee it. You must know that the U.S. Vice President was an ethnic Greek, that the head of the CIA, 20 years old, Mr. Tene was an ethnic Greek and they failed to do anything meaningful and anything good for the Greek Cypriots at all. I repeat - it was done by the Russian Federation. These are some experiences and our well-intentioned criticism and one reality that simply this agreement with Cyprus will not be met until the end and we will not be able to apply these useful experiences by the Greek part of Cyprus to the KIM and the current position of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because the EU simply won't give it. I am going back to that agreement with Albania, simply, the proponents of KIM's independence, and will have only after the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty an absolute majority in the EU Council of Ministers, which is, in fact, with the European Council, the EU's main body. And now, whether Stefan Lene said or didn't say if Mr. Deger wrote a report and the commission adopted it, you'll admit it's a third-rate fact. The fact is that the EU's main body, under the Lisbon Treaty, will have the right to set such conditions for us, which may be even worse than those set up by Cyprus. I say - we have a chance. Everything has alternatives, both in life and in law, and in politics, which is an unbiased policy that will primarily look at the economic and social interest of the Republic of Serbia and that will help us overcome the difficult times that await us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58681	Dear People’s MPs, in accordance with Articles 87 and 90, today we will work until the end of this item, or these common agenda points. So, if necessary, and after 1800 hours. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58682	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak on behalf of my parliamentary group about two contracts here today. One of them is the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on Readmission and this second is the Option Protocol with the Convention against Tortres and other cruel inhuman or humiliating penalties and procedures. I'll start with this one that I think has more to say. A few weeks ago, Serbia was appalled when a video of Vrsac beating up a young Roma police station and instead of very seriously launching the procedure, the police minister realized that it was one of the better ways to distract the media and, by democracy, by way of a "Grand Parade" model, invite a young man with his father to take pictures, talk, etc. Of course, it's one of the manners that obviously as the elections get closer and closer, it becomes more modern – driving a combined, vacuum cleaner into every house it enters, but it's one of the models that obviously can't be called democratic. Why did I choose this particular example? I must remind everyone in Serbia that Serbia long ago adopted the Convention against Tortrum and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating penalties and procedures, when Serbia committed itself to forming one or more bodies that would do this job for a year. The option protocol alongside the Convention was about all places where they are staying and where they can find persons deprived of freedom, which are prisons, the KPZ, the juvenile KPZ, special institutions for psychiatric diseases, psychiatric institutions, detention centres for emigrants. The law ahead of us, which has long waited, suggests that the work of this national mechanism is done by the Citizens' Protector, which I can't say is a bad solution, because the Citizens' Protector has done so far and has, among other things, had the authority to deal with the rights of people deprived of liberty. Then, to control the legality and regularity of the work of the public administration and the institutions involved in this work and to have, which is very important, uninterrupted access to all the places where the persons were deprived of liberty. Just a few days ago, I think last week, in front of the MPs, there was a report by the Guardians of Citizens. The report was really properly written, covering a large area that the Citizens' Protector has. One very important part of that, one segment that wasn't small, just referred to the rights of persons deprived of liberty. Interestingly, the Citizen's Protector has visited a large number of those persons on his own or on his own appeal and has written several objections that may, however, be put into several groups. The first group refers to police detention, and he said, several cases pointed to inhumane and humiliating actions against arrested persons in police detention and cited examples where he could comment. One of these examples is the drastic Chukarica, where in a completely inadequate space man found some hooks he hung himself on. Then, when it comes to detention, the Guardian of Citizens has indicated that periodic visits by the competent court are letic, and which, of course, shows that the competent ministry does not have any reports of this, and that these reports say anything that is wrong or any irregularities observed during these visits. He also commented on the fact that juvenile judges do not regularly go around detained minors for whom they are responsible, nor do they decide on their accommodation together with adult persons. It is the obligation of the competent judges, but unfortunately the situation in prison shows that minors live together with those who are minors. Then, what the Citizens' Protector saw, so I quote his Report, "it's a number of failures in the work of the Department of Criminal Sanctions", so he says "doctor's examinations after admission to the institutions are flat-rate, the protocols don't exist, there's no laboratory analysis, there's no periodic medical examinations of the convicted", and otherwise the law predicted that in three months, there must be one such review. "In the largest number of institutions there are no hospital rooms, in certain institutions there are no infirmarys or there are completely inadequate hospitals. In many institutions the doctor's presence is reduced to two hours a day." We're talking about the number of people around 1300, 1900, 2000, and there are no doctors there at weekends or holidays. They say it is common, says the Citizens' Protector, "it is common for therapy to give non-medical staff". There are, therefore, just some of the troubles that the Guardian of Citizens has caused here, which I cannot extend because of my time. I'd love to, because I have a lot to talk about and we should talk about it. When all that is now said is very ghastly and quite descriptive, because this is the report, although the Citizens' Protector lists very specific examples of names and last names, I want to talk about a very drastic case that the authorities have not stated, they have not said anything about it, although the media has reported it, although my MP group has asked the young mother to speak of it. It's about a 21-year-old young man, Alexa Filipovic, who spent several months in the Smederev Investigation Prison. The young man had mental problems, he had suicidal ideas. He tried suicide several times. At the time of that stay, he was sent to a central prison hospital. His file says these suicide attempts. Because of the robbery, the young man was sentenced to five years and nine months in the basic court in Smederev. So, committed, convicted and there's no comment there. But his mother urged him to be put in a prison facility for treatment and for the maintenance of his sentence. However, the expert found there was no need for that. Mladić is sent to the Valjevo Penitentiary. There are no conditions for the accommodation of persons deprived of liberty with such problems. There's no adequate treatment there. There are no staff there that could handle the needs of such a person as the late Alex was. On 24 May 2011, in the penitentiary of Alex's correctional office, he hanged himself. A few days before that, the Court of Appeal reduced his sentence to four years. The law here is very clear - the state is obliged to take the necessary and available measures to protect people's lives in support of punishment. There's no comment here. Furthermore, preventing the suicide of the face of the deprived of freedom is a violation of the right to live. There's a very clear law and it's very much about the convention we signed. But since in this case there has been no statement at all, any procedure, or any procedure required by the person in charge of carrying out, I believe that what he is saying here publicly, and I am speaking about the Convention against Tortrum, inhuman proceedings and severe penalties, one of the authorities still needs to plead and still have to do his job. It's not possible that when we're uncomfortable, we don't need to talk about it. We have to, because we are all paid by the citizens of Serbia. At this point, I will just say a few words about this second contract, if I have time, about the protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Albania on readmission. Readmission as a process and contracts of this kind really shouldn't be controversial, but what is the issue in this which we conclude with the Republic of Albania? That's what you say in assessing the financial resources you need here that you don't need the financial resources at all. It assures me that, in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, which are an integral part of the state, an integral part and an inseparable part of the state of Serbia, 300,000 of those people who came from Albania and who are here unauthorized in Serbia's territory live. So, if you don't need additional funds, and the budget provides for very small funds in this regard, I have to ask you if you said that Kosovo and Metohija's territory is not an integral part of Serbia? I'd like to get answers to this, because compared to your answers, we're going to define whether or not we're going to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58683	Minister Sutanovac has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58684	The territory of Kosovo and Metohija is the integral part of Serbia exactly as it was at the time when the Prime Minister was Mr Vojislav Kostunica, so that the matter has not changed from the point of view of our Constitution and our legislation. The fact that from the Kumanovo Agreement Serbia has no ability to control security in no way in Kosovo and Metohija is a fact from the past century that we cannot change, because it is an agreement that remains in force. On the other hand, the readmission, as you said, is irrefutable. If you think one such law should fall because the funds are not provided, there is always a so-called budget reserve and can always be accessed through it to read the commission of those who are illegally in our space, so that it should not be a great fear. It seems to me that we have the same opinion and I thank you if you are giving sincere support for such a law that is really necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58685	Mr. Aligruditch, you have no basis for replication. Milos Aligrudic, from the post, as head of the parliamentary group. The president of my party is mentioned. No, there's no basis for replication. Please, in the context of facts being brought up, all faces can be mentioned personally. They're not offensive and they're not false, they're simply facts. (Milos Aligrudić, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58686	Article 27, it's about you, Madam Chairman. So, I appreciate that you have the right to have a session as you think you should, but it's mine to rebel if I don't think you're doing it right. I think it's your duty to closely monitor the course of the session and what is said. When the previous speaker pulled a parallel between the two governments, referring to the name Vojislav Kostunica, arguing that territorial integrity today is as respected as it was in the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, there was an absolute replacement of thesis. So that's not what this is about. There is a very specific question here during the debate and you, as the chairman, had to follow the debate and take care of what is being said here. So it is impossible to compare things in this way, so before today's government makes practical moves that the government has never done, which deny Serbia's territorial integrity. That's what we've talked about here a thousand times in the Assembly. I don't think your holding a session on your part is correct. Read article 27 carefully and what it is all about when it comes to the application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58687	I still estimate that the minister was merely facts, very argumentative, so I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. However, if you are not satisfied in the voting day, the assembly will declare itself. Thank you. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Yes, in voting day.) ) National MP Dusan Maric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58688	Ladies and gentlemen, before adopting this readmission agreement with Albania, several issues need to be resolved, better said pre-questions, without whose resolution this agreement makes no sense and very easy instead of the agreement can become a misunderstanding in relations between the two countries. The first question is which territory does this agreement apply to? Does it refer to the comprehensive Republic of Serbia or Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija? More specifically, does Albania sign an agreement with a comprehensive Serbia at its constitutional borders or with part of Serbia? Will the provisions of this agreement apply in Pristina, Podujevo and Djakovica or only in Nis and Belgrade? That's what you need to know. These issues, extremely important in international relations, must not be left without an answer, especially in such a sensitive area as diplomacy, where every detail must be taken into account. Of course, Albania has recognised Kosovo as an independent republic and has the position to sign an agreement with Serbia without Kosovo and the Metohija. Serbia, as you said, has the position to sign an agreement with Kosovo and Metohija. Albania interprets that this agreement will not apply, and you and we both know that it will not apply to Kosovo and Metohija, and Serbia is interpreting here as saying it will apply to Kosovo and Metohija. All this agreement actually makes it completely pointless. How is it possible that the two sides, the two countries, are signing an international agreement, signing an agreement on something and not agreeing to even what the agreement refers to? They practically didn't agree on the most important issues. Such a thing is not normal and is not a practice even among individuals, let alone among states. In order for the citizens who are following this transmission to be a little clearer, I'm going to say one seemingly banal but very picturesque example of one comparison. Is it possible that two people are signing a contract to buy a house without having made it clear before even if the whole house or part of the house is being sold? The one who buys the house thinks he buys the whole house, and the one who sells it thinks he sells two out of three floors. I'm asking if that's possible. Yes, it's possible in theory, but in practice it's unreasonable and difficult to realize, unlikely. I ask a hypothetical question – would the Republic of Albania agree to sign such an agreement with the Republic of Serbia that the Serb people in Albania occupied the region of Shkodra? You know, if Shkodra was an old Serbian capital, if that population there had declared the independent Republic of Shkodra and that the Republic of Serbia had recognised that state, would Albania have signed this agreement? Of course not. As you know, Serbs have far greater historical rights to Skadar than Albanians in Pristina or Pec. I remind you once again that Skadar was the capital of the Serbian state for a longer period of time than Belgrade. As they now rob us of Pec and Pristina, so seven, eight centuries ago, they took Shkodra from us. The same hypothetical question – would the Republic of Germany agree tomorrow to sign any international bilateral agreement with a state that does not recognise Bavaria as part of the German state? More could happen if Osama Bin Laden resurrected and accepted Christianity than Germany would accept to sign such an agreement. The same goes for Canada when it comes to Quebec or Spain when it comes to Baskey, etc. So what makes Serbia this precedent? It is likely that many assume that we will benefit from this arrangement. I'm saying we won't do anything. This agreement will not be applicable in practice. It doesn't have any practical value at all. We'll only have damage from him. I would like to remind you that following the occupation of the NATO-led KIM pact in the southern Serbian province, between 250,000 and 300,000 Albanians from Albania who have further changed such an unfavourable ethnic picture in the southern Serbian province. Practically, they thus cemented ethnic cleansing that would be carried out by banishing the Serb people with KIM. Most of them moved to Pristina, they took up abandoned Serbian apartments there, but several thousand were usurped by Serbian houses and properties by KIM and the uptake lasts 11 years after the war ended. Under this agreement, all of them should be returned to Albania because they do not meet the conditions set out in this agreement, prescribed by this protocol, for a further stay in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Will that happen, will they be expelled? Of course not. Will Serbia cause a problem, will it protest in Pristina, Tirana, Eulex, in the international community? I'm sure he won't. We will acknowledge the fact that, as every time so far, we will recognize the results of ethnic cleansing in our own country, over our own people. Also, the question arises whether several hundred thousand Albanians who have moved to the country in the course of the SFRY have not regulated their status by international standards, pressure has fuelled the emigration of the Serb population with KIM, made a minority of the Serb people there and created conditions and preconditions for all of this to happen with KIM from 1998 to today? So I'm asking if Serbia will even ask that question? Under this agreement, he should set it up, but not to set it up, simply, so as not to spoil good neighbourly relations not only with the Republic of Albania, but also with Ali Berisha, but also with this self-proclaimed republic of Kosovo, because I see that we are allowing some of the things that no other country, which holds to itself, to its self-respect and cheek, would allow, especially now before the elections, when DS cramps are fighting for the West and NATO's pact in a match with the SNS on who, eventually, will form a future pro-Western government in Belgrade. Will Serbia benefit materially from this agreement? They won't do anything at all. I've already said he's inapplicable, which means he won't be applied in practice. Then the question arises why do we even need to confirm this agreement, why are we even discussing this issue today, why are we wasting time, money and the nerves of Serbian citizens? Because Serbia indirectly recognises KIM's independence, it acknowledges that KIM is not part of the Republic of Serbia. I simply consider it a matter of realising the Belgrade authorities' agreement with Brussels and Washington, one in a series of moves that the government in Belgrade is carrying out its policy of crawling recognition of the Republic of Kosovo as an independent state. On the other hand, unlike Serbia, Albania will benefit greatly from the agreement. With this agreement, Albania washes its cheek, washes off its criminal policies leading towards Serbia and the Serbian people. I remind you of a few facts. First, Albania played a crucial role in fostering separatism at KIM. Another fact, Albania played a significant role in the creation of the KLA. Third, Albania played a crucial role in arming the KLA. Next, aggression against the Republic of Serbia has been committed from Albania. As you heard from General Delic, troops of the Albanian army participated in an attempt to invade the territory of KIM and the Republic of Serbia. Next, Albania is a country where several hundred Serb soldiers and civilians, men in the best lifetime, were taken to be literally butchered there, and their vital organs sold at the market of the world's medical mafia. Albania, as you know, has not been responsible for any of these crimes. No single word of apology came from Tirana, not even a word of regret. On the contrary, they claim their criminal policy was correct, that they and the Albanians in Kosovo were right. I am telling you, from the point of view of someone on the side, who will interpret this agreement, that by this agreement Serbia practically admits that Albanians were right. I think that instead of signing this agreement, we should even, for a principled reason, adopt a declaration in this home and ask the international community to shed light on Albania's role in crimes committed over the past 15 years over the Serbian state and the Serbian people. I'll say a few more words about the Convention on the Protection of Faces that are exposed to torture. Since this issue is being addressed by the Citizens' Protector, we are currently proposing that Mr Jankovic begin his work with the protection of the right of Vojislav Seselj, which has been in The Hague tribunal for eight years and is undisputedly exposed to the unusual torture. I remind you, Vojislav Seselj has been in the custody of The Hague tribunal for eight years, based on a false indictment. It's, no doubt, a world record in the length of detention. For these eight years, Vojislav Seselj's trial has been violated literally all human and procedural rights. Any serious state that holds on to itself, to its dignity, to international credibility, would become protected by its citizens, rather than by a simple citizen, but rather by the former vice-president of the government of this country and the president of Serbia's largest opposition party. The question arises why does Serbia keep quiet? Shut up because Vojislav Seselj is the biggest political opponent of the current government in Belgrade and the biggest opponent of the NATO Pact and because neither the current government nor NATO pact want Vojislav Seselj to return to Serbia at least until the next election is over. That is why I once again use this opportunity to call on Mr Jankovic to show that he is the protector of all Serbian citizens, that he is not doing his job selectively and to call for a halt of the UN tribunal's torture against SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58689	MP Mirko Munjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58690	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, in my presentation, I'm going to look back on something that isn't exactly your thing. However, since you are here as a representative of the government and as you are in some way defending all these protocols and bill proposals, I hope you will still listen carefully to what I would like to say about this bill. It is, in fact, the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on ratification of the option protocol, with the Convention against Tortrum and other cruel inhumane or humiliating penalties and proceedings. In time, the Citizens' Protector, who is proposed here to Article 2a, has been determined by the citizens' protector to carry out the tasks of the national torture prevention mechanism, so Mr. Jankovic said there is no system torture in Serbia. You know, the form of torture against Serbian citizens is something that is extremely important and something that has taken on a very broad situation in the state of Serbia, and therefore this statement is made by the Citizens' Protector who will deal with this whole problem tomorrow, I think it's a bit of a flat-rate statement. The public defender is not officially inaugurated to do this job that will be in charge only when you make such a decision on the control and prevention of this highly sensitive area, while already making a statement that there is no systemic corruption in Serbia. It's said to me that in this way someone actually "experiences before the ship" when you do, and when we're not in the sight of that skeleton, there's a lot of things that can happen, even some unpleasant things. If it is given that the Citizens' Protector says in one place, I will try to quote it – that the deprivement of freedom is bad to the extent that they can be characterized as humiliating and that they contain elements of abuse, in some ways Mr. Minister says in favour of my fact that when he took only this one form of torture over the citizens of Serbia, that this is, in fact, a largely systemic phenomenon. Furthermore, the Citizens' Protector determines that the prevention of torture is not only a question of our country's international credibility, but is what he says – an imperative to preserve the dignity of our citizens. There's a simple question to ask. What's the range between these two things? What is the range between what someone, the EU, is forcing you to do, because they did the same thing and allegedly have stronger and better international credibility on the one hand, and on the other hand there is a preservation of the dignity of all our citizens in the matter, therefore, of all those who have experienced torture in some way. The range between these two things is huge and at all for these two things you don't need to ask the parallel, on the question that someone ordered you to do something or gave you a recommendation to do it and a question of preserving the dignity of a citizen. There should be no parallel between these two, because simply if citizens are important to you to prevent torture against all citizens who survive torture in any form must be a priority, it must be a sacred letter, I say – if you think of Serbian citizens. What's the torture we're talking about today? Tortura is a deliberate application of strong mental or physical pain or suffering by the official or with his consent for a specific purpose. That would be some of the best definition of torture by the official. The basic characteristic of all tortures, the common denominator of all tortures that citizens experience, is that they develop certain different psychological disorders. Among these disorders is the most important post-traumatic stress syndrome, and there are also depression, alcoholism, addiction diseases, etc. What is very important in this situation is, in fact, a certain degree of lenientness that many, especially those who do this torture, have according to this problem, even if in certain situations they justify. All we can think of is the case of that guy who was brutally beaten up in the police force. You know, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, when someone wants to maybe touch either the minister or anyone in power or anyone else, he allows himself, for example, to be. The representatives of the union of the police said the following, watch this now, I quote: "The beating of young men was on the muscles", as towards the muscles are not part of his body," and this was done according to a respected member of our society who in his career has about 18 criminal acts of theft, heavy theft and robbery." Excuse me, is this perhaps not justifying torture, or is it courting someone in power, maybe a minister, or what I know about who, but again courting or flattering, but again it's about torture? Some once in the history of the people have been freed in different ways by those who flatter them, who tell them that the best, the smartest, etc., were those presidents of the state, they were emperors, kings, ministers, etc. There have always been this in history, these flatterers, those who court the authorities, and that's one phenomenon that takes on in this society, not so negligible, and before that. You remember those stories when future Emperor Herod was small, and a teacher came to him who was also a teacher of the apostle Paul, and told him – you are destined to be king and you will become one, but you will not rule by God's laws, but only by your laws and torture. He said it to his face, he didn't say anything to him. This time becomes, becomes the emperor, remembers the story as it starts to blaspheme God, doesn't recognize him either. On the other hand, these others flatter him, just like today many who flatter the representatives of this government, flatter him that he is the smartest, best ruler. He at one point, here I end up with this story, ordering all those who flattered him to leave only the one who told him the truth. One lesson story for all those who flatter – one should be free of flattery, not like Emperor Herod. Just laugh, Mr. Minister. The people understand what I'm saying. There is a wide range of torture situations. I'll just mention some. Tortura on persons deprived of freedom, such persons are in a situation of complete addiction and this makes such persons particularly vulnerable to any kind of abuse, whether it is just police detentions, whether it is detentions, whether it is prisons as means of maintaining sanctions and prison sentences. It's a very wide field of action and it's a big question of how many citizens you're going to put here to deal with, and these problems can be done here, at least with four of your assistants. I remind you that the capacity of Serbian prisons is about 6,000, and that there are often up to 12,000 in Serbian prisons. How will the Protector of the Citizens continue to adequately affect the health care of the prisoners in our prisons? You know, in our prisons, we have situations that often copy those medical procedures that are applied in The Hague quasi court, and what are the ways of protection in that court, I think we're all clear. The next issue that is very important in the area of torture against citizens and the possibility of abuse, the possibility of torture is the question of fixation or binding very upset patients. I think Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic that this is something of your nature and that you will agree with me that something is not fixed in this area, and that is how much I could see, you in this area and in particular patient fiction as far as I could search, we have no concrete legal regulations. There are no rules on how to fix, who determines, who orders, who works, how long it lasts. Next, in these cases, can it grow into a torture, or can it not? Or, now let's put it in the opposite context, can the torture go beyond that, and that's how those who do these jobs are protected, etc? So that's something that isn't in our legal regulations. Furthermore, in deprivement of business ability, there are great opportunities for abuse and torture of citizens. Why? You know, or maybe you don't know, in the absence of a business ability, the party is not invited to the hearing, it doesn't even provide adequate legal protection. The party isn't even being heard. There are opportunities for abuse really great, not to say that restoring business ability also involves major abuses. Next, thousands or tens of thousands of individual cases are torture with state authorities. Excuse me, will you just tell me how much more time there is for the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58691	23 more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58692	So the next question is a question of individual torture cases with state authorities, at the center, for example. for social work and for courts. These may be the most drastic examples. I'm just going to give you a brief example where I think there's a big torture against the citizens, over the parents specifically in this situation and on the child. It's a family of Mijuskovics from Ostre near Cačka. This family, unfortunately, has a child who is retarded, who is 19 years old and who is in such a situation that there is absolutely no simplest operation that that child can only and consciously do. Parents offered both to the first-degree and second-degree commission, asking for other people's care and help, that they would give them one of the simplest operations and that they would give up if that child could do anything, that they would give up the 8,000 they had for him on the basis of these poor social aids. The first-degree commission has set up, says retardation is 90%, it says -- and with 100% of care and assistance. Next, the second-degree commission says - the IQ is 35%, and 34% of people's care and help is received. I'm gonna finish this case. The administrative court, whom they have addressed in this case to the Administrative Court for a year and a half, has not resolved the case in any way, shall not prejudge anyone in any way by which the Administrative Court will resolve it. Let him solve it negatively so that they can continue to complain to the Social Work Centre, because they need 24 hours of care from this child. It is one drastic example, as torture is being done on Serbian citizens. Thousands and tens of thousands of other examples. I'm sorry I can't mention many other examples, which are really a lot in this country. It's something that's done systemically in this country. When you work systemically, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, you need a systemic treatment for this. The first drug in system treatment of torture against Serbian citizens is for you to leave power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58693	National MP Petar Jojic has a word. You have 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58694	Madam President, Mr. Minister, this bill comes with a great delay, after six years, when Serbia took the obligation to regulate this area and to bring it into line with international legal acts. It's illegal. It could have happened in a feudal period, but not during the time so-called time. our democracies. The name itself is not adequate. The colleagues from the SRS pointed out, Mr. General Delic noticed it and was right. This is not an adequate name, nor an expression, that the Citizens' Protector is doing the tasks of the national torture prevention mechanism. There was a different, more appropriate solution to be found, which would be clearly applied to what is the responsibility of the Protector of Citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to torture and the proposal of this law, in Latin, it means the physical torture of the suspect and the accused to force a statement from him or force him to obey. In a political sense, torture is also closely linked to terror. In a political sense, terror is the sowing of fear, which involves an action of violence, which is meant and applied for political purposes to intimidate the unholy crackdown on the resistance of the one to which it is committed. The expression of terror occurs for the first time during the French Revolution, when certain actions of the Jacobites are called this term. Various forms of terror and violence have been applied to the conditions of fascist regimes and the use of various worst means of destroying and deforming people in implementing the measures of violence, pressure and repression. Tortura and terror like terrorism have similar features. The terrorism of the Latin word terror is fear and doctrines and methods of fighting to achieve certain goals, systematic use of force and violence. The motives for terrorist action can be very different: reactionary rematchism, through individual actions, murders, explosives and the like. With the appearance of German fascism, terrorism and torture, they get a monstrous situation and become the basic principle and methods of Nazi movement, which differed through arrests, criminal tortures in concentration camps, forced labour, killing women and children, shooting hostages, medical experiments with living people, disgusting burning people, etc. We also have a tyranny that is also closely bound, with the same characteristics as the torture. In a political sense and in a broader plan, it was created as a concept of the Greek word tyrantus and it marks a kind of autocratic regime and a personal dictatorship, that is, such an exercise of state authority in which I or a few, thanks to the situation of certain circumstances, meet obvious self-will, torture, terror in unlimited proportions. The tyrants, through torture, exercise power in their own interest, not in the interest of the citizens of which they have denied. That's why they come to power by force. The tyranny, related to both tyranny and terror and torture by an individual, the notion of tyranny as abuse of criminal power, the tyranny as a justified act we find even in the Latin tradition. In the Middle Ages, private action was justified against tyrants who were tortured by the population. An example from that sacred vow, the famous Italian philosopher Tom Aquinsky, demanded strict sentences against the heretics, allowed and justified the murder of tyrants, so dictators. Within the framework of the protocol envisioned by Serbia ratified by the said law back in 2005, I would particularly like to highlight and remind you of an important document that represents a universal declaration of human rights, which was adopted at the UN meeting in 1948. The universal declaration in the fundamental rights of man lists exactly what this protocol is about, which contains a number of provisions concerning the rights and freedoms of citizens, the right to live. You see, the Hague does not respect the right to live, although the UN has brought the Declaration and adopted and has obliged UN members to comply with the provisions of the UN's highest document. What's going on in The Hague? In The Hague, there is tyranny, terror, and there are murders, tortures the ugliest and the hardest. The president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Mr. Slobodan Milosevic, was killed by a total of 11 Serbs imprisoned in the UN criminal case. There's no justice there. It's a place of injustice. There's one difference that needs to be made. Is there any difference and what is the difference between The Hague and Nirberg? The difference is that in The Hague, Serbia's largest patriot and patriot, hero, intellectual and greatest fighter for the Serbian people and the Serbian state, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, as well as the largest Serb victim, is imprisoned. However, ladies and gentlemen, in Nirberg they were also tried as the greatest war criminals in World War II, the Germans. That's the difference. That's what the SRS wants, to respect international law, but based on reciprocity. According to Professor Vojislav Seselj, not all methods have so far been known to have tried to kill the president of the SRS, not to return alive to Serbia. However, Dr Vojislav Seselj has been subjected to torture, abuse, has been disproved. For nearly nine years, he has been in custody without a solution to determine detention, without a solution to extend detention, without trial within a reasonable period, although the UN also argues that those who judge in The Hague respect international law and stick to their statutes and national laws from where war crimes suspects come from. However, the UN tribunal does not respect the international law itself, writing its own procedural procedure on how to conduct the procedure, without the UN itself, sets the norms itself, sets the deadlines, but that court does not control anyone, except that the US and NATO pact only give orders to kill, whom they should arrest and whom they should condemn for life. It is important that 1,400 years were fined to Serbs and that everything else was about 180 years old. Where's the justice? There's no justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to encourage that the situation in our prisons is absolutely unsatisfactory. General observations regarding prisons and institutions in Serbia, where penalties are maintained, you see, a recent report was submitted by the Citizens' Protector, only the Citizens' Protector, this supplement that is brought in formally only has some formal character, practically in application he will never come. That citizen protector doesn't have instruments. He's had some powers so far. Do you know what powers these are? He referred recommendations to the MUP, courts and other institutions, but there's nothing out of it. So, the situation in prisons, such as in Belgrade County Prison, Krusevec, Novi Pazar County Prison, Sapac, Kragujevac, Panchev, Nis, Ruma and other prisons, is unsatisfactory. As you can see, I'm not going to list here, it's only when it comes to prison institutions in Serbia. In what state and conditions do these prisoners live? We live in the time of allegedly introduced recent democracy. Here, the Democrats have been in power for 11 years, to see what this democracy practically, when it comes to the rights and freedoms of citizens, does? As soon as democracy arrived on March 12, 2003, 12,500 innocent citizens were arrested. What did you do? How many of these innocent citizens have been charged with criminal charges, how many charges and how many have been convicted? There's nothing out of it. What's the matter? It was a retaliatory act, and it was a rematch to the previous regime or to the previous government. When it comes to detentions and police detentions, there is a holding room in some police stations. Those rooms are non-conditional. In one case, suicide also occurred because there were no conditions for persons who were held for up to 12, 24 and 48 hours without lighting, no toilets, no water, no window and no place to be carried out within 24 hours for a walk. It's not the police's fault. It's the government's fault, it's the government's fault. The government knows well that we have 150 police departments. If we have 150 police administrations, we must by law, and if we accept international law that in all 150 police administrations or police stations, rooms must be built in which citizens will be detained. Citizens are not allowed to stay in police station offices for a long time because these are humiliating and non-conditional conditions. As far as prison is concerned, prisons are in a very troubled state. Some citizens are during Maria Teresa, like the Panchev case. In the middle of town on the corzo. You might think, it's like buying a car with five seats and a rope in it. So it is in the prisons of the Republic of Serbia. If it's the capacity of 50 prisoners, there's 100 or 150. This is unacceptable, especially when it comes to Shabac and prison, and especially when it comes to police administration where the Guardian of Citizens points to these problems and says that these are humiliating conditions where our prisoners live. Second, no selections in prisons. In Serbian prisons, the same rooms are housed and underage persons, and persons who are being punished for a felony, and persons who are being punished for a car accident, as well as persons who are responsible for murder, for serious crime, for drug trafficking, etc. That's what we accept when this law was passed six years ago. But we don't respect it, the state doesn't respect it. On the subject of running the offices, there is some kind of C-section to be made. That's where the order has to be made. These people can't live the way they live. These are people who deserve first and foremost that they also have rights to business space, residential, where they will also stay and have the right to health care, to have the right to eat, adequate, that they have the right to walk at least two hours in the clear air during the day, and you certainly, Madam President, have no knowledge of that. I have such knowledge. What's the Justice Committee doing to us? The Justice Committee must carry out an insight and, once it has carried out, recognize that it has taken appropriate steps with the Ministry of Justice and that the problems are resolved. The problems are piled up. That's where they trade in drugs. There are some, according to one former warden, prisoners building cottages for individual officials. There's a crime there. Now, that crime needs to be prevented. When people on the inside say that, from the very system, you need to believe and take appropriate measures. Prison units – no 20 thousand square meters. For this capacity, how did democracy come, what do we have on the rise? On the rise, we have convicts in prisons. Number of states doubled. In 2000, when DOS came to power, there were six and a half thousand, now 12 and a half thousand. Which is a lot, it's a lot. Penalty policy's gone so far, you've seen the case in Norway. They say, "He's got a 20-year sentence on him, and we've got 40 years on our hands." You see, there's a lot of drastic punishments about us. We have now invented that we will preserve the state government system in Serbia only if we now pass repressive laws and if we impose penalties. We'll be champions of the world. And about democracy, about rights, about freedom, there's no question. Madam President, Parliament has insufficient knowledge. You see, the judges who make the rounds, go for five minutes, don't file reports on what was found at the Justice Department, which is due. Juvenile judges do not go to talk and to work with minors and to give measures on how to question minors. That's not gonna happen. So in our prisons, and this declaration goes first and foremost in that direction, the goal is that the persons in the prisons must be provided with everything Serbia has taken over through this declaration. On the other hand, the hospital, the neuropsychiatric hospital, wow. I have to tell you, you are a specialist in that area, but please, if you'd go to a metal hospital, to a school hospital, to a CZ hospital, and if you'd come to the hospital in Panchevo for an internal ward, I believe you'd say the director should be arrested immediately. That's what I'm telling you. To go to the bathroom at the hospital in Pancheva in the internal ward, you can't go for a minute. That's where it fell apart, that's where it went down. There's windows, there's doors, there's no toilets. (President: Time. ) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-25-0.u58695	On many occasions we have actually heard your appeal about the atmosphere and the conditions in which patients in the internal department are treated in Pancheva and I think it is a topic for the health minister above all, not for this point of the agenda, but I understand your need to show your emotions through style figures and other ways. (Petar Jojic, from the post: Madam President, you are wrong. You can't speak, you don't have the right to speak. (Petar Jojic, from the place: But I want to tell you what it is. I told the minister, and the minister said he made a deal with Pajtic, and Pajtic Panchev won't. ) Dear People's MPs, since the lists of MPs are no longer registered for the word before I conclude a joint single search, I ask if the President, or a representative of the parliamentary group, wants to do so without taking advantage of the right set out in Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a joint single search on the draft law supplementing the Law on the ratification of the option protocol with the Convention against Tortrera and other cruel, inhuman and humiliating penalties and procedures, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Co-operation in the area of defence, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Ministry of Defence and the Government of Kuwait, which represents the Ministry of Defence, on joint co-operation in the area of defence and on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying with the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Albania on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Albania on the readmission of persons who are illegally staying. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the bill's proposals. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. I thank you for your participation in the work.
