ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55263	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 78 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present under the electronic record, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system in order to check that we meet the Rules of Procedure's obligation to register 84 MPs in the electronic system. Here you go. This is the most interesting part of determining the quorum, when 40 MPs present in the O.R., but not in electronic records, sees the passage of electronic records from 83 to 84. I ask the MPs to look at their identification. I find that there are 84 MPs and MPs present who are not in the electronic record system, so we have a Rules of Procedure set out a condition for work. I also inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, Susana Grubjesic and Nikola Krpic. Notification of the invitations to the sitting: pursuant to Article 90(1) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the search in detail on the 3rd item of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the motion of Dr. Dejan Šoškovic, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, called for the meetings to be attended by Mira Erić Jovic, Vice Governor of the National Bank, Radica Dimitrijevic, Deputy Director General of the Centre for Consumers of Financial Services at the National Bank, Mirko Petrovic, Director General of the Directorate for Legal Affairs at the National Bank and Vladimir Petrovic, senior expert associate at the National Bank. We're continuing our work. Before we move on to a search in detail of the 3rd item of the agenda, the draft law on the protection of users of financial services, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that during today's working day we will conduct a search in the details of item number 3, which we are about to open and after the completion of the search in particular on item and item of agenda number 4, i.e. the search in detail on the draft law on changes and additions to the law on precious metals, which will end the work for today. If it is necessary to complete the work on the next item of the agenda, more precisely number 4, and to work after 1800 hours, we will work until we finish searching the details of the next item of the agenda planned for today's work, i.e. point 4. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Financial Services by the People's MPs Vladan Jeremic, Milorad Buha, Milan Škrbić, together Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazić, Gordana Pop Lazić, Dragan Živkov, Zoran Krasić, together Miroslav Markić, Srđan Spasojevic, Zlata Đerić, Nenad Popović, Arsena Đurić, Jovan Palalić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Lidijan Tomitrijavić, Dragan Svevanović, Tomislavka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Zoran Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Igor Pejić, Žaljan Pošažanović, Miražan Miražanović, Žažina Miražina Miražić, Jović, Jović, Žažina Pović and Žažina Pović, Mražina Pović, Žović, Žrić, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žović, Žrić, Žrić, Žrić, Žrjan P. You received the opinion of the National Bank of Serbia on the amendments submitted with the correction. Since just five or ten minutes ago the work of the Finance Committee and the decisions on amendments have been completed, you will receive a report on the work of the Finance Committee during the debate. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Before I give my word to the People's MP, if he wants, I'd like to remind myself of the authorised representatives. The SPS-JS parliamentary group – authorised representative is Zoran Kasalovic. The parliamentary group may change the authorised representative at any time during the session, or a search in particular. The mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group is Donka Banovic, the mandated representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group Milorad Buha and the mandated representative of the ZES Group, Branka Ljiljak. I also remind you that the presidents, i.e. authorised representatives, have the right to use their 15 minutes during the debate in particular, and the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours and is deployed at the same percentage as for the debate in principle. So the People's MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs DonkaBanovic, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55264	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. So this amendment refers to Article 4. The bill, and Article 4, discusses the relationship between this bill when adopted with other legislations in the Republic of Serbia. In particular, the Proposer stresses that consumer protection issues which are not governed by this law are subject to provisions governing consumer protection, bank operations, leasers, payment turnover in dinars, as well as the provisions of the laws governing bond relations. What did we want with our amendment? We wanted to supplement this article by stressing that this bill also explicitly, relations and regulations that regulate electronic business, as well as advertising. So the promoter didn't accept it. I'm just going to convince the argument, in the sense that it's not necessary to stress specifically because, among other things, advertising and information is arranged, I think, for a member of this 15th bill. This is true and it may be the only area in this bill that is satisfactorily resolved, i.e. where financial service providers are clearly prescribed by the law in which they are allowed to advertise and what they cannot do. I remind the promoters that there are a number of other legislations that regulate advertising, so I think we should accept this amendment, because these regulations are wider than how advertising is regulated here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55265	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Pop Lazic submitted to the title above Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55266	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment to Article 5 of this law. It applies, by the way, to the basic principles of consumer protection. We felt that in Article 5 paragraph 1), what you have stated here as a right to information should be reformed – "right to timely and true information and communication". In fact, we have come from reality, as you like to say; this political option that is in power likes to say – reality is what is important. In this reality, about, when you look at the media and you look at the daily newspapers, you see the daily ads of banks that sell property to citizens who once took out loans, and then they couldn't repay those loans. It is a famous rule to write in the title or at the end of the text in small letters a notice for a user he or she cannot read or can't interpret. I have to say that these days between a thousand and three thousand mortgages have been activated on citizens' property. The banks are reluctant to talk about it, so you don't even know how much of these mortgages are actually activated. The state authorities also don't know the right number of these mortgages. I think that's what we need to talk about in public and I think there should be a public record of it. That's what we wanted to correct with our amendment, so that it wouldn't happen if citizens didn't receive information in time and they weren't getting completely true information, because partly the truth isn't the same thing as completely true information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55267	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55268	Article 6 The proposal for this law states that financial services must be advertised, and you say in the bill "in a clear and understandable way, and that advertising cannot contain false information, or information that can create the wrong idea of the conditions under which the user uses these services". This member is incomplete. The Serbian Radical Party's intention was to fix a member with this amendment, and this could even be called a legal-technical regulation of the law. We predicted that financial services must be advertised on the website of the financial service provider and over at least two public letters. We don't understand why you didn't accept it, Mr. Shoskic, and what does it mean that you didn't accept the amendment? You're just questioning whether you really intend to make this advertising as provided for in Article 6. Because in what way are you going to advertise it? Are you going to the ad board at some bank? That'll be enough for financial services users to be familiar with what you're predicting? You say that "the amendment is not accepted, because the purpose of the proposed standard of this member is to make the services available to users in a clear and understandable manner, not to determine the obligation to make the ad asset do so". So we do not question that services should be available to users in a clear and understandable way, we just want it to be absolutely public. In the era of electronic communication it is amazing that you do not accept that it is advertised on the service provider website. Of course, for those who do not use the site, this should be made available in means of public information. We specifically suggested that they be at least two means of public information. My colleague mentioned it earlier, when we look... simply to make a man's skin chill when banks advertise the sale of apartments, houses, even the immobilities of users of services that for some reason did not regularly meet their obligations to the service provider, or to the bank. Then you have identical ads in at least five daily newspapers. It is not a problem for banks to pay for advertising space, etc., because, my God, give the people a sale of property as soon as possible because at some point they misjudged themselves, or, worse still, they were in charge because at the moment of borrowing they were confident that they could meet the obligations of the service provider. Meanwhile, many have lost their jobs, so they have no opportunity to repay the loans they took. The banks are rigorous here. This occurs, among other things, because banks are not public enough when it comes to their services. They advertise themselves so well on billboards, on televisions etc., but when the financial services user closes the contract then there is a lot of tiny tricks, which most people don't even read; even if they read, it's written so that they can interpret it ambiguously and then people come into such a situation. With this amendment, we just want... We don't see any valid reason, what you wrote as a reason, indeed, Mr. Shoshkich... We do not see any valid reason why financial services would not be available to the public, to all citizens of Serbia in these two ways as we have proposed in the amendment. I am truly convinced that you will reconsider and accept this amendment once again, because in no way do we touch the essence. We don't touch, because there's no reason, and we think that financial services should be advertised in a clear and understandable way, there's nothing controversial about it, just – how? If you do not accept our amendment, the question remains how, in direct communication, do you on the advertising board etc? Nothing costs you anything, believe that this member will be much clearer and more acceptable if you accept the amendment of counterpart Zoran Krasic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55269	Five minutes and twenty-five seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the governor of the National Bank Dejan Šoštic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55270	Thank you very much. A brief comment concerning Amendment 7, relating to the right to timely and true information and notification. So, it's not a question, the idea of a promoter, and it is precisely to provide what we're talking about. What, in our opinion, in this particular amendment, is that we are actually talking about something that is very specific through Articles 15, 16 and 17. So these are just general principles, in this particular article. Later, through 15, 16 and 17 members, I think that the motionary's intensities are fully met, which is to provide timely and true information. In the context of this second proposal, I also understand the intensity and I think it's positive. What we must not forget is that advertising is part of marketing, promoting certain financial products and services. Any investment by the promoter in how some bank or other financial institution will advertise would actually affect the area of market relations, in which someone wants to advertise. We would not want to increase or reduce the participation of certain media in advertising by law, but rather to ensure that wherever they are advertised... It is the natural interest of banks to do so on their website and in other ways (through written media, etc.) and will tend, by the nature of things and their market relationship, to make their ads as accessible as possible to potential customers of financial services. So the goal is, wherever you do it, to do it in a way that will allow for full information in a comprehensive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55271	The People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta, two minutes, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55272	Mr. Shoski, we can't accept your argument. You must bear in mind that today we are talking about the proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services. So we're not protecting this law, and we shouldn't protect, donors, but users of financial services. It's clear what you're saying, that commercial banks have an interest in advertising, etc., but when it comes to advertising on billboards, where it says "come in for zero percent interest," etc., you well know that it's not like that and that's not the right way to advertise, it's just advertising. This is about serious advertising, with a little bit more details. What bank gives zero-percent interest loans? It doesn't exist. And half of Serbia is flooded with billboards from a bank that lends zero-percent interest loans. We did not say that this should be published in the team and the paper and we have no intention of reaching out to any media, but simply has to be legislator, it is the National Assembly, and you as a proposing, to give a indicative statement – must be published on the site and must be published in at least two daily newspapers. There's just no other way. Not only in Belgrade, many places do not have billboards. How will peasants use banking services if they can't at least in some newspapers that every village in the kiosk can buy to see and read these conditions? You're not going to make them go 20 or 30 kilometers, where it's based, where the bank's exposure is, to get to know each other? So, in no way is this amendment endangering financial service providers... (President: Two minutes. ....................................................................................................... but they protect themselves a little more than you predicted financial services users.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55273	Anyone else want a word? The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted, as Parliament's Group of New Serbia, an amendment to Article 7(1) where we have asked for it to be changed and read: "The Financial Service Treaty (hereinafter referred to as the Treaty) must be made up in writing and, if necessary, on another permanent data carrier. “ The original text of the proposed member of the law states: “The contract on financial services (hereinafter referred to as the contract) consists in writing form or in another permanent data carrier. “ Our argument is: we believe that this member of the law needs a financial service provider to impose a strict obligation to make up the text of a contract in writing because one good part of the potential financial service users in our country is still ignorant when it comes to other alternative data carriers. It is also necessary, please pay particular attention to this, that the law be in accordance with the spelling rules and therefore the solution is "in writing", instead of "in writing". Namely, the wording ‘literate’ and ‘written’ is not the same. Writtenness involves knowing and applying spelling rules, and writing is something that implies the form in which something is expressed. Something written should be written. It's two different content concepts. That's why we thought you were unwise to refuse this amendment. In this article, it would be very important for the term “literacy” to be used when it is to be used and to be used in the laws of the form “written” when it refers to the form of a document.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55275	Anyone else want a word? The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55276	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I am sorry that the legislator did not understand the Democratic Party of Serbia's intention and the essence of this amendment. If he had, I think he would have accepted it. Paragraph 1 states that "the financial service contract is made up in writing or in another permanent data carrier", as we know that the financial service is also defined by this law, that it is a banking service, a financial lease service and a financial contract. So it's basically three types or groups of contracts. The amendment proposed that this position be changed and that it reads: "The financial service contract is made up of Serbian or national minority language unless the parties agree otherwise. The contract shall consist of written form and/or other permanent data carrier. “ What do we propose to the National Bank, which is the legislator of this law? That users who are members of national minorities have the right to and contract, as well as anything that precedes the signing of the contract... to provide them with financial services to ensure that this communication is done in their native language. I remind you that every local self-government on whose territory lives up to 5% or more members of national minorities have an obligation to provide everything regarding communication with citizens of national minorities in the language of the national minority. The courts, i.e. the legislative authority in this country, are also obliged to provide translators if they are members of national minorities who are in court cases. We have state authorities who are obliged to meet all of this, and you here have no understanding of such a complicated area. Unless you're a financial expert, it's very difficult and otherwise you understand these contracts and what it all means. I think this is where I should have... let financial service providers ensure that their customers have precise, clear, and above all understandable relations. What you answer me to this amendment is that the amendment is not accepted because the question of language use is not the subject of this law. I know that the subject of this law is not the use of the language, however, alone in Article 10 (so, the next member, that member will be spoken of by my colleague) you say that the financial service provider is obliged to in his business premises etc. user is familiar with the general conditions of business in Serbian. So you've introduced the Serbian language into the law yourself. When it comes to the rights of members of national minorities to be precise, clear, understandablely informed then you believe that donors are not obliged to do so. I'd like to ask you to reconsider.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55277	One minute and forty-five seconds were used by an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55278	Therefore, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group has submitted to Article 8(4) an amendment that the words "such a nature" are changed in the words "so defined by the contract". I will read what that member said as you suggested, so: “The elements of Article 2 and 3 of this article must be of such nature that they cannot be affected by the unilateral will of any of the Contracting Parties. “ I think you must honestly admit that it is a much better solution to say: “The elements of St. 2 and 3 of this article must be so defined by the contract that they cannot be influenced by the unilateral will of either party. “ The law must certainly be clear and accurate. When you use a syntagma of “such nature”, it is more epic-lirical than legislative, so I think this is an amendment that you should certainly accept and that this member of the law would in any case make it very clear, useful and understandable to anyone who is in a position to apply it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55279	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55280	Mr. Shoskic, we've just found ourselves again in a termological doubt. Indeed, I ask you to, on behalf of the literacy of the law (a colleague spoke about the translation of the law just now), this content of the term “literate” and “written” in the law, change wherever you can, because it is not the same content of the concept. Even when translated into other languages, you will see that something else is involved. So "literate" and "written" are not the same content of the concept, and in law, the very content of the term "written" is very important to you. So that's what it's about. It is understood that everything written and subject to a legislative procedure must be written, i.e. it must be subject to the spelling rules of the language in which it is written, but the documents are written, so that Article 10 of the word “written” is replaced by the word “written”. That's what we asked for with our amendment. We really expect that kind of understanding. Since it is not unusual that in other professions people do not distinguish these two concepts, here, as a professor of literature and someone who spent twenty-five years behind the cathedral absolutely stand behind the fact that here and everywhere in the law the word "literate" must be replaced with the word "written".
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55281	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55282	Madam Chairman, Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment to Article 10, which reads as follows: "The financial service provider is obliged to provide him with appropriate explanations and instructions in his business premises, not later than 15 days before their application, to ensure that the user is familiar with the general conditions of business in the Serbian language, to provide him with appropriate explanations and instructions concerning the application of these conditions in relation to a particular financial service, as well as that, on his request, in writing form or on another permanent data carrier, he provides these conditions." What counterpart Donka Banovic said about article 7 can fully apply to Article 10. Here you introduce the Serbian language as the only language to be used in the bank, but you forget about a large number of non-Serb citizens, who belong to national minorities and whose constitution gave them the right to use their native language. In your explanation, you're telling us that language use is not the subject of this law. The use of language is not subject to other laws, in the judiciary, so it must also be spoken in the language of national minorities. It is not the use of language or the subject of laws relating to local self-government, so it must also be spoken in the languages of national minorities. Not to mention why this whole story is about the amendments we've submitted and set up. First of all, it is very difficult and complicated for any user who is not a lawyer or economist and who is not involved in banking to penetrate the contracts that banks make up in the business policy of these banks. Now you still have users whose Serbian language is not their native language. Then you have one difficult situation for that man; he is not properly informed, nor timely informed, because he simply does not know what is written. It's his constitutional right, he has to get his constitutional right. I don't understand why you're defending people, Serbian citizens, from using their constitutional right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55283	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55284	Dear Presidency, Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have tabled an amendment to Article 12 which we have proposed to replace in the first sentence "in 14 days" with the words "in 30 days". In fact, Article 12 defines the right to withdraw from the contract. It is proposed that the user may, within 14 days of the date of conclusion of the contract, give up without giving up the grounds for withdrawal. Given the nature of the job, as well as the time period of the job, we feel it is necessary to leave a longer period of time for the users of financial services for a possible withdrawal, so we have proposed a 30-day period. We believe that this 30-day deadline is more appropriate than the deadline given in the bill, so I invite you to reconsider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55285	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the governor of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55286	A brief review of this 14-day deadline. It is foreseen by Directive 2008/48 of the EU, as we know, however, it is not a key issue; the key thing is that, according to our assessment, it was one really reasonable deadline within which financial service users can re-measure all the conditions of the financial business they entered and possibly correct their position. The extension of that deadline, even though we were considering this possibility, might open the door to some abuses we wouldn't want to see in our financial system. I would briefly refer to a question that is indeed a technical, lexic question, more than essential. Indeed, these arguments seem strong to me; we have received assurances, too, from the lecturers that the grammatically correct term is "literate". As for this question whether or not in the language of national minorities, well, I think that some things and competition can solve itself. Any financial institution would want, among other things, to acquire as many users as possible of its services. Hence, by definition of work and competition, they should be motivated to attract as many users as possible, regardless of whether they better understand the language of the majority or the language of the minority. In that domain, I believe that competition in the market will do its part of the job, which should be considered that people who know the good language very often, as you know, some other concepts of these contracts are more difficult to understand. I agree that there is a problem there how to bring all aspects of the contract closer to people who are less familiar with language, but it will likely be weaker to know what the euro is or what is the difference between a three-month, six-month, what conditions exist in terms of early payments and similar things, so there are really a lot of elements that are for the average man, the citizen's challenge. We must not lose sight that by passing one of these laws, regardless of good ambition, we cannot remove all aspects of the risks that are being opened. In other words, financial services users, despite this law, which I hope will be passed, will have to take care of and indeed be fully familiar with all elements every time, and any further explanations can be asked by bank officials. It is also specified here that bank officials are obliged to present all the essential elements of the contract to users in a clear and understandable manner. Of course, users have the right to, as long as they are not in a position to accept that in a clear and understandable way they have received all the essential elements of the contract, insist that further things be explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55287	Three minutes and fifteen seconds were used from the time of the promoter. The word has Donka Banovic, a national MP, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55288	What you're saying sounds logical, but it's not always like that in practice. I don't understand why you're not... Now you're talking about competition, how banks, to attract as many users as possible, will also provide translators for users who are members of national minorities. I don't understand why you left this question open when we're talking about protecting all users. We are now interpreting whether it will be competition, market etc. regulate. So it was supposed to be regulated by law. I was talking about the fact that the Serbian language is also native, where contracts, when it comes to financial services, are clearly written in Serbian, are mostly difficult to understand unless you have someone you can consult and whom the area is close to. If we don't know the area well, then we don't understand what it says in Serbian. That's where I agree with you anyway. However, the fact that translators cannot master this language, or the language of financial services, does not stand. There are a large number of authorised translators, courts, or legislation used by court interpreters, etc., so that for anyone who has completed or has been a language professor, sufficient training from this area for two weeks. It's not atomic physics, learn what euribor, libor, etc. for a professor of French, Slovak, Greek, etc. So I don't understand why you left this like this. I think we in this country, and especially this government, should move from word to deed. If we're talking about human and minority rights, if we're talking about a ban on discrimination, let's just not talk about it, but that through these legal proposals of yours we really think you're serious when you talk about it. If we have legal proposals that I can do, then I simply don't accept the answer to say that the question of language is not the subject of this matter. Yes, it is. Let's protect all users. After all, this may be a small depression, but here we are talking about institutions or organizations that really have enough money to put into translation training and to bring this whole concept to life in every institution. If local self-government, which generally has no money for it, if the judiciary can provide judicial interpretations, I really don't see why a bank that stands quite well on the market in Serbia can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55289	The word has the governor of the National Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55290	I'll remind you of two things. The first is that the use of the language of national minorities is the obligations of state authorities and institutions that perform public functions, and also the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 10, clearly states: "In the Republic of Serbia there are Serbian and Cyrillic letters in official use." In other words, starting from these provisions, we have proposed a solution that we believe is sufficient in practice. On the other hand, we must not lose sight that any additional legal determination of the use of the language of national minorities would in fact expose financial institutions to additional costs, which would normally be passed on to financial services users. So these costs you're talking about, the correct translation by professional people who know all aspects of financial work, and yet they know the language to which they translate... These are jobs that are not cheap and would, in turn, be part of the possible new costs on the side of the financial services provided.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55291	Anyone else want a word? There is a word from MP Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55292	Just to remind Mr. Governor, with all due respect to what he said, that we are in the protection of users here. Our law in the original applies to users, not banks, so we should take a little care of protecting the users, and the banks will protect themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55293	Anyone else want a word? There is a word from the MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55294	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really think that today we are talking about a law that should introduce some order in the legal order, to provide some legal certainty, and above all for the users of financial services. Among other things, it should be possible for one who wants to use a financial service to really get the right insight into the content of a contract that he will conclude and that he knows exactly what obligations he assumes as a user of that service. It is that he should understand the content of the contract if it is a member of a national minority, and he does not speak a very clean and clear language that is officially used in Serbia. There are a lot of people living in Vojvodina who are members of national minorities, who also want to use credit-taking services, however, have a problem with understanding the agreements made up in Serbian. Therefore, this is not even about whether some of their rights are threatened as members of national minorities, but about their rights as a consumer, as a beneficiary of these financial services. Because they won't be able to afford to join the bargaining and conclusion of the contract themselves. They must take a professional person with them, or at least a Serb - speaking person, and the question is whether that person will be able to translate the content of the contract to a good degree. Therefore, this is a purely legal question, whether we provide financial services users to really understand the content of that contract. If we want this to be a European law, which reaches the European standards that we have so much to stand for, and we have waited so long for this law to finally avoid those situations from the loan agreement when we had a bunch of fine print text, which people either did not pay attention or they misunderstood, then we must also take care of the members of the national minorities. With this legal solution, we put these national minorities in an unequal position. We may thus prevent people from using the benefits of this law, which is said to be European, which is said to give some transparency in the bargaining between the lender, the leaser and the financial service user. I don't think it's ever a waste of being much more accommodating than what maybe, realistically looking at, would be quite enough, especially if it's, in this case, about the interest of users of services. I think even lenders, i.e. the lising, have an interest in finding users among the members of national minorities, so also in Vojvodina. I don't think it's reasonable and realistic to explain this legal solution by picking up the whole lending procedure, or the lease. Nothing so much can collect a loan, i.e. licking it as a misunderstanding of certain obligations to be undertaken. Normally, it is the right of the consumer, i.e. the user, to use this right to demand, or to ask and beg the lender, the leaser to enable him to receive the contract in his own language. If he thinks it's expensive or unnecessary, he won't ask. I think that banks would show one approach to a good businessman in the conclusion of a contract if, among other things, they would take care to how they approach the consumer, i.e. the user, and to show good will if they say – here, we want our consumers to fully understand all the obligations and all the rights they have accepted by signing that contract, i.e. by concluding it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55295	Five minutes and fifteen seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted this amendment. Since we do not have statements from the board, this amendment will be declared by the National Assembly in the voting day. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Shoskic, we don't understand why you accepted this amendment in this form. If you remember, in principle, we have potentiated this Article 12, and we have said that the deadlines provided for the return of the lising object are not good. Unfortunately, the Serbian Radical Party, now, not to enter, for technical reasons has not been able to submit its vision, or its amendment to this member of the law, but for that reason we have pointed out to you in the principle debate. If I recall correctly, at the end of the principle debate, you spoke to the Assembly and said that you were open to talking about these deadlines. Now we really don't understand what those German 11 gentlemen were proposing, and that it's different than what came from the National Bank, which, in principle, you disagreed in some way, but you said you were open to talking. What's this about? What logic has led you not to accept Mr. Đurić's amendment, which asked that the deadline from item 1 from 14 extend to 30 days, and which logic here applied to not reduce to 14 days and that you, for example, from the bank suggest one such measure? We can't say that what you suggested, or what the government suggested, is wrong. That's more specific, it's okay now. So it's not the same thing if someone puts funds at your disposal, that doesn't mean you're using them. It's a whole other thing when the funds you put at your disposal and use. This makes sense. But, essentially, you have failed to change this amendment only in the sense that the deadline is not 30 days, but – longer than 30 days. Who are you doing a favor to? What does that mean? Why do you allow such bad provisions of these laws to result in legal, financial and any other damage? He does not think that the Serbian Radical Party is defending neither banks, or licking houses, or anyone else, but we think that by reducing the deadlines to, say, 14 days, the damage that comes from poor practice, irresponsibility or poor judgment, in the end, you would be able to prevent precisely the categorical and resolutional measures you from the National Bank. Why would you even give someone up to 30 days of law and hold on to the means they took on the lease? Let it be a car, see, most practically, people may understand and experience it most easily. Why? Because, as the amendment is proposed, the first thing that goes after that is – the user of the lising is obliged to compensate for the damage suffered. Who are we protecting? Someone just said here. Are we really going to protect users of services or are we going to protect financial service providers? It's not just the service users that you're going to find service providers, it's the fact that you're going to protect them with certain categorical attitudes if they've possibly made a bad assessment, that they don't continue to go to that bad assessment. Why is that? Why didn't you accept, or suggest, a 14-day deadline? The banks, Mr. Shoskic, have been acting arrogantly for the past ten years. They acted like that because the state was giving them an order. The state's impromptu it. It was nice to write these financial reports on which the stability of the financial system is at what level, because the banks, you'll agree with me, did not share the fate of the manufacturing sector. While some perished, lost their employees, the banks flourished and made profits. It must finally stop in this country. If you're really showing a desire to stop it, come on, be categorical and stop it. Change this amendment, suggest that whoever gives up a certain service, the financial service user who gives up that service has a period of seven or 14 days to return it. It's not the same damage that can be predicted in 14 days and 30 days. It's not the same. Once again, financial service users will be, in some ways, damaged. The bank won't let itself... You said very well, no matter what happens to the bank as a cost, it indirectly replays it to the users. That's true. Why would someone have to pay the bank for their ignorance or irresponsibility in the end? You have a mechanism in your hands to stop it, the only thing is whether or not you will. So it's not clear to us the logic that you've handled to refuse this, and that the amendment to the government, which essentially means no change, accept. You suggested that the deadline be 30 days, and the government suggested that the maximum deadline be 30 days. It's not a neck. It's a neck. So I ask you to refuse this amendment to the government, to change your position, or to change the amendment to another one, so that you eventually accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55297	Five minutes and forty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Please sign in only.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55298	Just for a minute, one comment. I think that we were on a similar line of thought with the motion for this amendment, which was accepted, and also with the MPs who expressed a similar attitude. I will only remind myself that, as proposed, this amendment reads: "The user who gives up the lease agreement with the option of buying the lising object is obliged to immediately," so not up to 30 days, but immediately, "after sending the notice from Article 3 of this Article, return the subject matter to the leaser. “ This is the de facto damage that I understood you were talking about under some regime that would reduce its amount.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55299	National MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55300	Then, it goes on: “This user is obliged to immediately, and no later than 30 days after the date of sending that notice, to pay the leaser the damage suffered if there has been a reduction in the value of the course of the lising and to pay the agreed interest from the basic business from the date of conclusion of the contract to the day of payment of interest.” We were just asking for everything to come down to, say, 14 days. Let that be your suggestion, that all that is foreseen here be completed within seven or 14 days. Simple, efficiency, economics, rationality, all that this country needs, that neither appraisers nor courts nor banks are involved in this business anymore. We simply asked for the deadline to be reduced. That would reduce business for both banks and anyone involved in this process. We just wanted so much, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55301	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55302	New Serbia's parliamentary group has tabled an amendment relating to the two positions of Article 12, item 3 and item 9. First, I will explain attitude 9, where we asked that the word "right to give up" (meaning contract) be added to the word "basic". We believe that it is necessary to distinguish between which of the two contracts is the right to the withdrawal of beneficiaries of financial services, because this is a law on the protection of users of financial services. So, we felt that by adding the word "basic" absolutely precise which of the two contracts is the right to give up. I return to Section 3, where we again insist on the words "written" to replace the word "written". I'll go back to what Mr. Governor said. You said you admitted that the arguments we made were very strong. The lecturer gave you the assurance that they were grammatically correct. Now, I'm telling you, it would be grammatically correct here every adjective you've put on. You could have put any adjective in Serbian, it would have been grammatically correct. I'm not talking about grammar. Language is studied through several sciences – morphology, lexiology, spelling and grammar. I'm talking about the content of the concept. So we have oral and written form. Oral and written form can be both written and illiterate, depending on our personal culture and knowledge, means education. So, we insist only on that part that it's about the content of the concept, so please, since we have a few more amendments that I won't explain anymore, that you remind the lecturer of that basic content of the concept that the law... I respect your expertise, I'm not going to go into it specifically, I'm speaking now from the point of view of my expertise. It is indeed the content of the concept that this law, which should be one of the most important documents in this country, makes it fully and written. Otherwise, if you have one law in which you have one, I'll be free to say, a non-serious formulation that can question the legislator and the one who then applies it, then you leave room for some other kind of doubt. Because of this, there is only one precision that will not endanger the law in its basic intention at all, and it will contribute much more to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55303	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55304	The DSS parliamentary group practically had two amendments to this article. The first amendment was explained by my colleague Arsen Djuric, so I won't repeat it. In this amendment that we have signed, the four of us, I simply wanted to remind the promoter that this right of resignation, as this member is called, is also required to prescribe a clear form. Thus, through the draft law, it can be noted that the proposer's intention to introduce order for all procedures and procedures, in particular these new ones, in the sense that the prescribed forms are used. If the National Bank also prescribes this withdrawal form and it becomes mandatory for all financial service providers, then this matter will also be better arranged. You're saying it's simply a statement of resignation and that there's no need for a special form. And these other procedures are certain procedures so you're prescribing a form, so I don't see why you refused this amendment. We also add a new position, which concerns that the National Bank of Serbia will determine the appearance and content of the contract withdrawal form. It will be a user, if he decides to give up a contract, big help, because he will be able to take over from the bank or on the website, fill out those basic elements and deliver it to the bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55305	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Governor of the National Bank Dejan Šoškić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55306	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the honourable MP for further explaining the difference between writing and writing, and I would like to express our agreement with your interpretation on behalf of the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55307	I ask the governor of the National Bank of Serbia to clearly, because of the stenogram, say which amendment accepts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55308	In fact, all amendments relating to the correction of the term "literate form" in "written form".
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55309	I understand, and I'm glad for the MPs who have submitted the amendment, but you'll have one at a time. Every time the amendment is made, I will ask the promoter to say, the stenogram works, to accept that amendment. The form “I accept all amendments in which, instead of writing, “written” is not clear enough for a stenogram. I think the governor of the National Bank has shown that he respects the Assembly and knows his job, so that one extra sentence around the amendment won't be a problem. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the title above Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55310	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is evident that this bill has certain titles above the members of the law speaking one thing, and something else has been defined in the article itself, something similar. This amendment to Article 14 submitted by the SRS Parliament Club is one of the amendments proposed to bring the title into line with what is said in Article 14. In fact, Article 14 defines that employees involved in the sales of financial services or providing advice to users are obliged to possess appropriate qualifications, knowledge and experience, professional and personal quality, to know the rules of the profession, to act in accordance with good business practices and business ethics, to respect the personality and integrity of the users, and to inform, on their request, the users of the terms and conditions of use of those services. Also, Article 14(2) introduces the obligation for financial service providers to provide training for employees working on those jobs. These provisions are not defined by anything that would represent a minimum of professional training, but only a number of what is meant by that. That is why we have proposed this amendment that the title really reflect what is written in the article itself. Speaking of this topic, and without intending to talk about financial service sellers in a negative context, but in practice it is so – they behave very skillfully, officials in a skillful way avoid telling the user what they will not like, and the other stands for the over-emphasis of what might be treated as a certain convenience. This is, in view of the eyes of their employer, the most important feature employed in the business of selling financial services must be owned in order to earn as much money as possible to their employer. We are left to see in the future whether this law that we are talking about today will be applied in practice and whether it will correct the behaviour of the seller of financial services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55311	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55312	I think the amendment to Article 14, regardless of the title itself, etc., is a good opportunity to point out some other details that are also important when considering this matter. At first, I just need to draw attention to how we are now entering something quite regulated by the Law on Bond Relations. Almost everything is regulated, with the Law on Liabilities giving options, giving opportunities, giving rights and obligations to both the trustee and the debtor from the banking service, as it is now said, and giving them the possibility that they can, in principle, negotiate freely. I must remind you that one of the basic principles of the market economy is that the contract is the law. Then the question really arises, why such a law with a title like this? Are we authorized to protect one side in a contractual relationship? This could thus be interpreted in layman's terms, however, the subject is much more serious because we have two sides in a contractual relationship: one is a great professional, banker, by definition of a human soul trader; the other is always, whether a legal or physical person, the inferior one, who needs funds for something, sometimes means for development, and sometimes means for survival. And, of course, bankers, as dominant contractors, develop their services and always expect profit, some profit. Then the question is, if we have a law like this where it's said in the title of the law to protect the user of financial services, there's something wrong with it. I think it's a better second concept, to special legislation to edit certain elements of banking contracts and all financial contracts at all. These provisions of the law would have a special fact in relation to the Law on Bond Relations, and that would make some sense. Then all banking contracts or financial contracts would become not only strictly formal contracts, but in their own way would also be added to the Bond Relations Act, so why not say the concerns that follow bond relations. But you've defined yourself for this concept and it's now a done deal. What is the purpose of this law? To treat the consequences and perhaps prevent future consequences. Can we cure the consequences of this law? Hardly. Can we prevent the adverse consequences of such a contractual relationship two, by definition of an unfair party? We can't. Why can't we? Because we have one fundamental lack of legal system. So that wouldn't be complicated in the follow-up, I'll explain it on one specific subject. You see, in article 14, the title states: ‘Request for minimum professional training’. It's primarily meant for the financial service provider and for those people who perform on behalf of, to simplify, the banks. Now, you explain one thing to me. "Banka Inteza" has Director Draginj, who has little to ask; there is a deputy director, this Italian, who is also asking questions; he has legal services, he has other services, etc. Imagine, they closed a contract with Tomislav Nikolic on behalf of the SRS on 21 March 2008, hiding that no one knows. And when it came out, only October of the month... I'm just talking about minimum professional training, so I'm just talking about article 14. Now, you see what the minimum professional training of Banke Inteza workers is like. They take a 2004 paper that says that Tomislav Nikolic is authorized to report to the Finance Committee on spending funds, while those in the bank interpret it as his authority to lend credit to the Serbian Radical Party. A clear example of unauthorized representation. But what's it worth? The case was received by Marina Tomic, at the Trade Court. What do you write laws, aman? So it clearly stands - a decision, where it is named, in terms of the Law on the financing of political parties, that it must submit a report, sign a report, etc. If the funding report, the financial business of the party is wrong, then the two authorized persons are also invited. No, those in the bank estimate he's authorized to hire and issue bonds. The party found out only October of the month, and by the way – he escaped, his deputy escaped, the one who stole the secretary and the computer, and the entire financial service went away.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55313	National MP, please, on the agenda item, or bring about the protection of credit users of Tomislav Nikolic with the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55314	Mrs. Komic, I have said three times, I am talking about article 14 that reads - a requirement for minimum professional training. I'm talking about the minimum professional training of people who work at the Intez Bank, that nothing means to you this provision if Miskovic told the employees of "Banke Intez" – you have to give this man credit, we are not interested in the papers...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55315	People's MP, the law is about protecting users. The bank's not a user. Therefore, please, on the agenda or link your example, at least a little, with the provisions of the law. I listen very carefully to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55316	Mrs. Komic, article 14 speaks of employees of the financial service provider having to possess minimal professional training to protect the interests of the financial service provider and to avoid misleading financial service users. Very simple and simple. I'm telling Mr. Shoskiæ now - you wrote this for free, because our practice is... I'm trying to bring into a logical relationship why it's pointless to write in law something that doesn't apply in practice. What is the professional experience of our bankers when a simple decision is interpreted as the power to conclude a contract? You know, Mrs. Comic. Then a short-term contract for three months, although there is a ban on March 12th of that year. No, they don't care. The Italian partner said, Miskovic told us that this is a perspective, he will get money in the election based on won terms, he will be able to repay. It wasn't back, it was that same bank that blocked us and downloaded the funds. That's what I'm talking about, Mrs. Comic, about Article 14.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55317	People's MP, I listen very carefully to you and I very closely follow you until I remind you that you are under obligation or that you are talking about the agenda or that the example you provide as an illustration is in connection with the provisions. Don't do either.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55318	Mrs. Komic, there is no difference between you, Marine Tomic and those who are conducting the investigation. That's what they're talking about. And the sparrows on the branch know what happened. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55319	Eight minutes spent from the time of the parliamentary group, 56 seconds spent trying to warn you to use your time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Before I give my word to the next speaker, I would remind the governor of the National Bank, Dejan Šoškovic, agreed to accept in the name of the motion the amendments submitted by the MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric to the various members of the law, with the content of each amendment being such that, in the form of the tabled amendment and with an explanation, the word "written" should be changed in the word "written", in the corresponding decline and gender. These are amendments to Article 12, Article 10 and Article 7. I ask the governor of the National Bank that the stenogram works, on behalf of the promoter, says whether he accepts the amendments to the cited members of the law. Here you go. I'm just asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55320	Thank you very much. So on behalf of the promoter, I would like to thank you for amendment number 12 concerning Article 10, where the word "written" is replaced by the word "written". We accept that amendment. Also, we accept the amendment to Article 12(3) where the word "written" is replaced by "written". I guess later, when we get to the other members, we'll also accept this kind of amendment. On Article 7, I understood that this would alter the essence of this article, so we accept Article 10 and Article 12(3). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55321	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted this amendment. The amendment is under discussion. It will be declared by the National Assembly in the day of the vote. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we only asked for the word "in the pre-contractual phase" to be deleted in this title. In a way, indirectly, Mr. Shoskic, by refusing this amendment, you have given an explanation why he actually needs to be accepted, because you said it was a matter of informing the users rather than pre-contracting in terms of the bonds law. If you look further at this and the members of the law that go after that, you don't see any pre-contracts being made. So, you don't need to make a pre-contract, get into pre-contractual obligations to make a deal afterwards. You just took advantage of one word and said it was a marketing thing. We therefore believe that this "at a pre-contractual stage" would create confusion and unnecessary problems. The bank is obliged to inform, in the way you have provided for members of the law, in all stages of its business and operation. There's no pre-contractual phase in all this. So there's a contract. Or you have side contracts. Here, next to a loan, a lease, a credit card, there's only one other type of contract, and that's a side contract, if there's one or can happen. There's no pre-negotiation phase. That's why we think you can put here that in the title above Article 15 there's only information. It's not like you're not familiar with categorism here, look, let's just say, in Article 17. When a user, for example, asks for a mortgage to be indexed into the euro, you do not write in the law – the bank can grant it, but very clearly and categorically – the bank is obliged to do so. It's an example of how everything else has to be done. So this applies to the information before the contract is signed and after the contract is signed, there are no pre-contracting stages here. Because it can be associated with bond relations, to create some confusion, we think you can erase this. Information is more adequate, more understandable and will not lead to any issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55323	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted this amendment and is in debate. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55324	First of all, I would like to thank the governor for remaining consistent with the arguments presented in the principle debate; it was indeed necessary to delete this item 3, where the offer is in dinars, that it does not refer to loans or other financial services which are the subject of purchase, i.e. the financing of the purchase of immovable property. I want to repeat that argument that even countries in the European monetary union, such as Spain, are expressing the value of immovableity in pesetas, and in order not to be the first, on the contrary, that is the reason more to adopt that amendment. On the occasion of the amendments that Mrs Zlata Djeric filed with the parliamentary group, where you accepted that what was written was not the same as written, but not a general, accepting everywhere, but not allowing the concept behind you to change – in terms of that contract that should be in electronic form, so it is impossible to accept there, Article 7 did not accept, but in Article 7. It is the 10th and 12th -- it really gives hope that in one part we begin to look like a normal parliament, to hear arguments, to accept those who do not change the concept that is in good faith and the intention of this law and that you are very closely following what we are doing here. Expressing my gratitude for keeping your word and adopting an amendment that is really important means that what should be normal and defaulting in this country becomes a matter of praise, but I am glad to be able to praise that we are conducting a dialogue that is in the interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55325	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted this amendment, but it is under discussion. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55326	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll use the time of our parliamentary group. Therefore, Mr Dimitrijevic submitted an amendment to Article 17 paragraph 5, point 18) which reads: "information that the user has the right to inform the user of the results of the database for the purpose of assessing his creditworthiness and that this notification is free of charge in the case referred to in Article 18(3) of this Law". Mr Dimitrijevic changes after this part "information that the user has the right to inform about the results of the data-based insight to assess his creditworthiness" so that it continues to read: "all the costs of the assessment and notification in the case referred to in Article 18(3) of this Act shall be borne by the bank/lising provider". We're really surprised the governor didn't accept the amendment. I have already said that the law is called the Bill on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, so it would be logical for financial services users to really have the right to be protected and to get some service for free. On the other hand, the law has already been late for the Consumer Protection Act, which would be a parent law; it will then be applied in six months, which is an additional deadline. What we are particularly afraid of is that in this triangle between the National Bank, as a proposer and who will control this law, between commercial banks, which will practically apply this law, and on the third side of the user, all the damage and all the charges, of course, will be paid by citizens, or users. A lot of the law announced will be really problematic, first of all, for the citizens. If I were right, I'd read you just a few comments about this. He says: a new law on the protection of users of financial services will cost each bank several hundred thousand euros, however, the cost will be paid by citizens because banks will try to "elevate" these losses through greater interest on cards and credits. So now I can read to you – bankers say unofficially that the costs will mostly result from the adjustment of software and the implementation of all legal solutions necessary for the adoption of the law. They themselves say that the cost banks will raise service prices and indicate how banks will protect themselves throughout this story, and how this will be transferred to users, who are obviously not protected even to this extent when banks, i.e. Lizing service providers, are free to provide users with information on the results of the database for the purpose of assessing their creditworthiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55327	They've been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted this amendment. The amendment is under discussion. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55328	Article 18 speaks, i.e. the title above this article is “The obligation of credit assessment”. We have proposed the amendment to stand "Assessing Credit Capability" because the proposed title is simply rhogobatan. You inform us that you cannot accept the amendment because, you say, the existing formulation is clearer, more technically correct and corresponds to the content of Article 18(1). No, it's all the opposite of that, our amendment is more technically correct. But in the second sentence, you say that you do not accept the amendment and you specifically note that such a solution is also foreseen by the EU Directive 2008/48. That's the problem. The problem is that this whole law, in fact, is passed by various EU directives and you don't care what the MPs think about it, you don't think of any more serious amendment to accept. You have formally accepted one number of amendments. You can only see how long it took you to get your colleague to tell you that "literate" and "written" is not the same. But the EU says and there's no... You, I don't mean personally, Mr. Shoskic, but the regime, which you share, have destroyed all Serbian banks by various orders of the European Union. We are citizens of Serbia today, the economy of Serbia, the hostages of those foreign banks that you have brought to Serbia, which are actually exploiting both Serbian citizens and Serbia's economy, because in Serbia they do not function under the conditions under which they operate in their own countries. We also talked about it in principle, let's let him try some card he gets here in "Inthesis", "Rajffeisen" or some other bank to use abroad -- no way, it's not recognized. You have brought the citizens of Serbia and all of Serbia... This, above all, on the soul of Mladjan Dinkic, from the time he abolished Serbia's largest banks. And day-to-day disputes are being held, there are certain assets that these banks had in the deposit, etc. And the public was deceived that these banks were inequitable and that was the reason for them to be abolished. No, of course, the reason was that someone was in the interest of bringing these foreign banks here. What does Article 18 say? That, prior to the conclusion of the credit agreement, creditors are obliged to assess the creditworthiness based on the data they receive from whoever is asking for services and on the basis of an insight into the database and the responsibilities of that user in the so-called ‘requirement’. Credit card office. Now I'm cutting this short, I'm coloquial. We have a case here for you to come to the bank and tell the bank openly and honestly what your duties are, what your monthly incomes are, and then that clerk, the operator can tell you right away that you can't get a loan, but no, he says, "I'm not sure, let's look for the data from the credit bureau." Credit Bureau data is paid, it doesn't say, different from the bank to the bank, from 300 to 800 dinars. What do you need this item 2: “If the parties agree to increase the credit position of the user, the bank, or the leaser, is obliged to reassess the creditworthiness of that user”? Once the user's ability has been assessed, credit card data know exactly how much that user can be in debt; if he changes his mind and wants a bigger debt, what does he need with credit bureau data again? Just to pay 800 dinars one more time. In the end, you say, if the request is rejected on the basis of the information obtained in the credit bureau, then the leaser, or the bank, is obliged to give the user, without compensation, immediately inform the data in writing from that database. This is not how it's done and it won't work even when this law is passed. If anyone needs a loan, then he calls neatly on the phone, leaves and asks and has no time to wait for the bank to notify him in writing, but gets an oral notice that he unfortunately does not meet the conditions. This “free” previously paid twice for 800 dinars, i.e. 1600 dinars. Another concrete example of how banks cheat on citizens, even people who read what is written in the contract proposal, even those fine letters that need to be pounded. For example, a concrete example of a refinanced loan at Raiffeisen Bank: the service user refinances a credit card from another bank at Raiffeisen Bank; there pays credit-demand data, there pays several payments, which are all about 50 euros, translated into euro; it costs so much the "free" refinanced credit. Then that bank official says -- that you're not harassing yourself, don't go to that bank (I think it's "Vojvodjanska Banka"), don't bring that confirmation, there's no reason, because we in the credit bureau get the information that the card was paid off by these funds that were credited to Raiffeisen Banka, and we don't need that confirmation that we're putting it in your file. For the first month, this credit user has a war, for example. of 10,000 dinars. The next month, the war increased to 11,000 dinars and received home address written notice that by the end of the three-year loan, 36,000 would be stolen because, according to the notice, he did not bring in a certificate from a bank in which he had a credit card. So he got notice that it wasn't necessary. This law, your debate and answers several questions and comments from MPs when it comes to amendments, Mr. Shoskovic, speak of the obvious lack of genuine intention of the National Bank of Serbia to protect users of services. Your intention is still to protect service providers. In order for citizens to understand what this is really about, you are protecting foreign banks that rob citizens of Serbia and which, unfortunately, will continue to rob citizens of Serbia under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55329	Eight minutes and forty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yes, National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55330	I will take the opportunity to thank the motionary for accepting some previous amendments. Otherwise, this amendment refers to Article 18 where it refers to the obligation to assess the creditworthiness of the financial service user, where there is indeed a space left to check the creditworthiness of each user can continue to be charged, as is the case now. What's ironic is that you're just saying that if the financial service provider finds that he doesn't want to sell a certain financial service to the user, he also informs that it's not cost-effective. We suggest adding a new position here, which would be attitude 4 and which would read: "All costs that can be incurred in terms of credit assessment and notification are borne by a bank or a leaser, or a financial service provider", so that this member does not become the subject of abuse of those who provide financial services. Citizens and how they know that, based on these estimates so far, they've mostly been costing. Here we have heard that 800 dinars were the rating of the credit bureau, however, there have also been different abuses – that suddenly the bank asks you for this assessment every year, or every six months, and then there are some other persons who are much more expensive. In order for this to not happen, I suggest you reconsider and accept this new attitude 4 where it would clearly and precisely indicate that all costs are borne by banks or leasers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55331	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Given that the report of the Committee has arrived, I will repeat that the Committee has made a statement on the amendments adopted by the Proposer. The National Assembly's Finance Committee accepted the amendment to Article 17, which was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic and accepted by the National Bank of Serbia. The National Assembly's Finance Committee accepted the amendment submitted jointly to Article 17 by MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic and accepted by the National Bank of Serbia. The National Assembly's Finance Committee accepted an amendment submitted by a group of 21 MPs to article 17 of the Progressive Serbia Group, which was accepted by the National Bank of Serbia. The Committee on Finance of the National Assembly accepted the amendment submitted jointly to Article 14 by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The Finance Committee also accepted an amendment to Article 12, which was submitted by the government, and was agreed by the proponent, that is, the National Bank of Serbia. In progress, given that we have a report, a stenogram is working, I will read which, since the amendment, the Finance Committee has accepted and which it has not. Is there anyone else answering for the amendment to article 18? The amendment was submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. No, I don't. ) Before we move on to further work, allow me to inform you that part of today's session, starting just now, from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly, will be followed by experts from the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, and that: Lucius Mader, Saint John Bates, Martha Ahler, Yevgenija Avetisov and Oliver Nikolic. Welcome to the National Assembly, and we hope you will also enjoy the course of debate and atmosphere in the National Assembly. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55332	I thank Mr. Governor for having the understanding of the amendments we have submitted so far, those he has adopted, and not only for the term "literate" and "written", so that we are now dealing with a little bit with the other, essential part of the law on the protection of users of financial services. We have submitted the NS amendment to Article 19 paragraph 1 point 5. After the word "National Bank of Serbia" is deleted and the words "or official middle course or purchasing or selling course of the bank" are changed in the words "or official middle course of the National Bank of Serbia", so that the text in brackets reads "the purchase or sale course of the National Bank of Serbia, i.e. the official middle course of the National Bank of Serbia". We felt that this change should be introduced into the law just in order for the law to play that consistent role in protecting users of financial services, because under the conditions of full liberalisation of the financial market in Serbia, it is quite enough that business banks are allowed to create their own exchange lists. If the law-proposing authority already has the protection of the average user of financial services, most often credit, in Serbia, it is necessary that credits indexed in foreign currency are linked exclusively to official NBS courses. Namely, whoever once took a look at the exchange lists by banks saw disproportionately on these exchange lists that provides additional extra income based on the exchange rate differences on the daily basis. We believe that this practice should not be allowed in some long-term credit relations, because it allows bankers in Serbia to carry out a fine one over the citizens of Serbia, over the users of financial services, to be more specific, even rudely pillaging, at an interest rate which they often talk about, about the users of credit services, cannot be followed to the end, and are often in a situation that they cannot pay interest. We thought this was a better solution in article 19.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55333	The word has the governor of the NBS Dejan Šoštic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55334	Thank you very much. We were thinking in a very similar way, and the National Bank of Serbia, as a proposing, not only respected the arguments, but, I would say, went a step further by accepting the amendments of the Finance Committee, which, I will remind you, have been delivered to all. Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall refer to the term ‘purchasing or selling course of the NBS or the official middle course or the purchase and sale course of the bank’ in Article 19, paragraph 5. In other words, this would practically introduce the official middle course of the National Bank of Serbia in all these accounting operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55335	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the Finance Committee has submitted an amendment to Article 19. A representative of the motion, governor of the NBS, has just accepted that amendment. The amendment remains in discussion. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55336	This is one of the most important amendments that has been adopted at this time. Since it is fundamentally related to the amendment that we, as the Prosperity Group, have submitted to Article 34, regardless of what is wrong with chronologically, I must indeed admit that this is the easiest, most applicable solution. It is a consistent recognition of the right of users of financial services to know what they can count on. Why am I answering for a word right now, even though article 34 isn't on the agenda? We are in article 34 of the formulation that the user has the right to claim payment by the same type of course, in which you went further and took the official course of NBS, high school, as generally applicable... We prayed that you would realize that “it has the right” does not mean that the right will be applied, that someone must be called upon, that it is serving on a Swedish table, but someone who is shy or ignorant can and may not be served with the food that stands for him on that table. By adopting the amendment of the Finance Committee, where the bank is said to be obliged to apply this course, you have overcome the problem. And, not too much, just one "thank you" because you really deserve praise.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55337	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55338	Of course, I'm not in charge of boasting, so my seeing this is completely different. There are positive and negative curricula, I'm up for something else. If we have loans in dinars, then interest and everything else will be expressed in dinars. If the loan is taken and the euro is secured, then the euro will also be applied. Since we have the domination of foreign banks, if they give their loans to citizens in euro, at an interest rate of 4.5%, let them give the same interest rate to our citizens here, and then indexation has no impact. Let's apply the domicile interest. Once upon a time, if, say, you were saving in stamps, you had an interest rate that was applied in Germany for stamps. Then let each one take some of his own risks. Because the official middle course is utopia. But no, it won't be done here. Why? Because this law won't protect anyone. We're all aware of that. He may have a little effect on reducing the greed of banks, bringing them into some context, but you can't control them. All that you wrote could be solved with three members: one member to prescribe a maximum and minimum interest rate, one member to prescribe a minimum and maximum amount of ex post processing costs, etc. It'd all work out. But here it's about to get as complicated as possible, and it's supposed to provide a lot of protection for the citizens. There's no protection. 500,000 families are over-indebted, and so are banking, lease and other credit obligations. You think 500,000 families expect this law to solve all their problems caused by green interest banks and licking companies? Please, it would be too unserious to send such a message to the citizens. It is known that loans and liabilities in euro are subject to an interest rate applied by the European Union countries. What is in the dinars is applied to the interest rate of the dinar. But you won't do it. Why? Because it's already an interest rate of 4% green. You don't want to bear the responsibility, to contain inflation, not to be greater than 3%, but to want a stretching regulation where the state doesn't fit. And the state is the only one responsible for inflation. The bank needs to cover inflation and plus guaranteed earnings. Then he resorts to various variations – and middle class, and this, and that, a beautiful story, sounds very nice, we all praise the governor, thinks very well about clients. And Jelasic spoke – a gold franc, run away from it, keep an eye on it, read the conditions etc. Was that right? For two years, a man warned everyone. And the effect? Five hundred thousand overindebted families. Let's simplify and narrow things down. Because I don't see the responsibility of the state in this law. Excuse me, please, inflation is the most responsible National Bank of Serbia. She guarantees price stability, right? It's probably 70% of the stability rate in the hands of the National Bank. The government is responsible for the part where it controls regulated prices, both its failures in politics and excessive public spending. And, of course, it contributes to inflation. Generator? They are the generator, my God. Let's see where the state is. Excuse me, please, if the state is cheap, if the National Bank of Serbia is efficient on the market, knows they're talking, it's very simple. They need two members: one member, minimum and maximum interest rate, and another member, possibly, processing costs, minimum and maximum. You can also extend that logic to payment cards, credit cards and other banking services. But it won't be that simple system. That's what this is about. You're going towards that Euroisation. There are no negative and positive exchange rates in this Euroisation, or they are minimal. And here we celebrate the middle course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55339	Five minutes and thirty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55340	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was in this room our colleague Dragan Vujadinovic. He is now the president of Kosjeric Municipality, and otherwise he is an excellent MP and author of the book "Inverse Economy". He could certainly do a brilliant replica after this discussion, and I'll just try to look back at a few of the facts we've heard here. First, I would like to hear in which country in the world, with a regulated economy, with a regulated financial market, the state that imposes what is the interest rate of banks operating on the capital market? I would like an example to be given to me, but a regulated financial world, not by those states that some tell us that we should look up to them, where they are state-owned economies, but those economies that have the capital market, the financial services market, where the laws of supply and demand apply. I would like them to tell us where there really are such economies in the world right now, such a stable and strong economy where the state in the assembly session says -- the interest rate in the bank, each domestic and foreign, will be so much and so much. Why 4%, why not 1.5% interest, then inflation by that logic will be 2%? So we can't expect the Bill on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services to regulate the relationship within political parties, that someone can't raise loans; we can't expect this law to regulate the way someone will run an election campaign, because this is governed by the Law on the financing of political parties. You don't have to go after the laws here. On that path to the European Union, the positive experiences of the countries that have passed this time should be maintained by the experiences of those countries that, above all, have been created by the EU. But if we don't want to look up to the EU, if we want to look up to other countries, to ask what years have these other countries had a conducting economy, where has the state said how much will be the maximum and minimum interest rate, where has this not been determined by the market? How did these countries and their economies end up such an experiment? As the politicians who have propagated such an economy have ended, we all know that, but I am not interested in those who are losers, I am interested in the state of Serbia, I am interested in its citizens. I think we're passing laws here that should allow the benefit of the citizens of this country, not politicians, not political parties. Nor should laws be experiments, and Serbian citizens are guinea pigs over whom these experiments apply. For those who rely on science, you know, financial sciences, economic sciences don't know much about biological legality. In biology, people try on mice first, but there are no unsuccessful experiments or attempts in the economy. Here we need to take a good look at the theoretical experience that recognizes the modern civilized world, apply it, and time of experiment is the time that has long been for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55341	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55342	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are already entering section two here – the content of the banking service and lease agreement, and the subtitle above article 19 is "the loan contract". It refers to all the mandatory elements of the loan contract. You name here 17 of these basic mandatory elements. The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment requiring it to be inserted as point 15) -- the right of the user to be immediately and without compensation notified of the results of an assessment of his creditworthiness and based on an insight into the database. Therefore, the existing points 16) and 17) are technically becoming points 17) and 18. What led us to write such an amendment? I have already started to talk about this famous triangle in which in a contractual relationship, on the one hand, the National Bank, as a proposer of this law; on the other hand, commercial banks, which should apply this law and which, with comments on this law, are too binding, that it is not correct, obviously will not be resented by the National Bank, so they are not making too much effort to speak negatively about the law itself; the third point in that triangle is the user, which is obviously not excessively supported by the state. The law ahead of us, I said, will be applied late in six months. On the other hand, when we look at all the elements, it will not help the user much, or the citizen to be better informed, nor will it help to repay the loan. Credits in Serbia will be increasingly expensive, making it even more difficult for citizens to pay off bank loans, which at the end of March were five billion euros. So the citizens borrowed five billion euros. Experts point out that high inflation, the country's credit rating, as well as a new proposal for a law on the protection of financial services users, will cause banks to raise the price of their services. Economists say there is no chance that loans will be cheaper, nor will living standards improve. Professor Hungarian, for example, says numerous macroeconomic indicators that do not go to the public's orders, but also the over-indebted economy whose debts to bankers have increased to about 12.5 billion euros. So both citizens and businesses are over-indebted. Serbia is a high-risk country, it will not change soon. Inflation's out of control. Maybe he could say something about this to the governor. ) The state is financially weak and must also be in debt with commercial banks. Public debt is increasing. All these risks are overrun by commercial banks operating on the Serbian market and affecting the price of their services. Professor Hungarian further adds that paying off credit will also become difficult by a possible drop in the value of dinars. So we're trying to make our amendments as much as possible to fix the real situation and make it easier for end-users to borrow. I'd like you to reconsider our amendment and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55343	One minute and thirty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Governor of the National Bank Dejan Šoškić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55344	Thank you very much. If I could just take a brief look at this amendment, our argument was that this matter was not an integral part of the mandatory elements of the contract. However, I will remind you that in Article 18 of the existing proposal in paragraph 3 there is the following text: ‘If a request for a loan, i.e. a lease is refused on the basis of an insight into the database referred to in Article 1 of this Article, the bank, i.e. the leaser, is obliged to immediately inform the users without compensation of that database’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55345	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55346	Thank you. Of course I had it in mind because I really read the law and I know what it says in Article 18. That's why I felt there was no harm in it being a mandatory element of the contract. I think the contract that contains that element would be more complete and much, much more beneficial to the users.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55347	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55348	I'd just point out some other dimension of what's covered by the amendment. You know, in practice, it's because of this supposed credit assessment that people can't raise credit, and it's, say, an earlier loan that's been paid off, it's all over, but there's a little thing going on in the computer that appears as a debt; man doesn't even know where that debt is coming from, which is why this debt is neatly suspended, he's paid off, and so on. I think the point of this amendment is that if such a situation occurs that it's obviously a mistake or I don't know what, that's not why someone's being denied a request. That's how I understood this amendment, I didn't take it as a mandatory element of the contract. I agree that it is in a member who is bound by the terms of the contract, but the whole purpose of the amendment is not to refuse, or that his request is not rejected because of something that is even unproven. I have a very specific example because a man called me from Kladov, in Pozharevec is the headquarters of that bank. He needs to take a man on a loan; he paid off his previous loan six months ago, and they're refusing to ask him because there's supposed to be a credit problem there somewhere, etc. He says, why am I troublesome, when you closed the party, I paid off that loan? Obviously, this occurs as an excuse that in the assessment of these general conditions of their business they can call for something and not grant a person credit. Of course, far from pleading for one or the other, I still think the bonds of the dominant and the freedom of the parties are undeniable. I took the millions of amendments as just one kind of protection against possible abuses, and that's why there's a potential listing, to make an insight, to prove it, not just to say it -- you know what, you got a commitment there that you didn't settle. When he asks what the obligation is, he answers him – well, the computer kicked you out. That's what it looks like in practice, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55349	The word has the governor of the NBS Dejan Šoštic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55350	Thank you very much. Just for a short time, that's why, on the line of thought, in Article 18, there's this possibility of free getting that copy from the database. If there is an administrative error in the process, then it is possible to remove it after considering it to be done on the basis of correct data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55351	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance tabled an amendment to Article 21. Is it necessary for the Proposer to make a special statement on this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55352	We accepted that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55353	National Bank of Serbia Governor Dejan Soskic accepted the amendment. The Government has submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Financial Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) This is an amendment in the search because we do not have a statement from the Legislative Committee, so it will be declared by the Assembly. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Financial Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55354	Thank you. Article 22 refers to the contract, issue and use of a payment card, and some mandatory elements are listed here, there are 13 of them, with the bill in paragraph 6: notice of the existence of a cash withdrawal fee on another bank's ATM, as well as the amount and fees in the event of cash being raised on the bank's bank's payment card. I think it's a good thing the Proposer accepted this amendment where this second part of the sentence is deleted. That part otherwise resulted in a bank which otherwise issued a payment card asking for compensation if the money was raised on its ATM. As far as I know, banks have never had that practice before; if you raise money on your bank's ATM, then there is no extra charge. I have to admit that we were quite surprised when we saw a point like this and a possibility like this at all, so I think it's a good thing that you accepted, so the banks didn't realize that because of some elements where they would now make less profit and to use their own ATMs they were looking for compensation from their users.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55355	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55356	Only one intervention, regarding some of this member and this amendment, but it concerns this previous one. You know, we have a special Financial Lising Act, and that law defines the lease agreement. I ask you a question, which law will apply to the lease agreement? The Financial Lising Act or the Consumer Protection Act of Financial Services? Just to draw your attention that there is an important difference in the essential elements of the financial lease agreement from that law and this law, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55357	The word has the governor of the National Bank Dejan Šoštic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55358	Thank you very much. I thank you for this warning, but I remind you that this law, namely this bill, applies primarily to financial institutions' relations with natural persons. In other words, the provisions of the Lising Act apply exclusively to legal persons. On the other hand, where this law, in a different way, regulates relations between the licking companies and natural persons, this law will apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55359	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55360	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia has tabled an amendment to Article 22. The title above that article is "A contract to issue and use a payment card". At point 10, which otherwise reads as follows: ‘the liability of the card issuer in the case of theft and loss of a card, i.e. in the case of unauthorised use of data from a card’, we have submitted an amendment and we believe it should read as follows: ‘responsibility and mandatory handling of the card's users and bank in case of theft and loss of a card, i.e. in the case of unauthorised use of card data’. What we want to draw attention to is a clear procedure. With the responsibility of the bank's users and responsibility, we believe that it must be prescribed and that there is a clear procedure in the law. This is very important in order to avoid abuse and unauthorized conduct. If we have no responsibility, on the one hand, both banks and users, and on the other hand a completely clear procedure, then we can experience anything. I can tell you a lot of examples from personal, own practice, my own experience, but also some people who happened to have stolen their documents. I can tell you a little saga about what the road looks like to report a missing card and everything. In this case, the amendment we submitted also protects the bank, protects the users. When you have a clear procedure, it is known to everyone, they are protected both. If this procedure is not prescribed and is not established, then you have a situation that you will experience walking in torment. I really don't think this is gonna hurt anybody, that it's good for both of us. So please take another look at this and accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55361	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55362	I'm going to make our argument very brief, although the amendment is very long, and it refers to Section 1, point 4, and the addition of a new position after Article 4. In terms of the protection of users of financial services, we considered the meaning of this amendment to be identical to the amendments to Article 19 paragraph 1 point 5) and Article 21 paragraph 1 point 6). I respect what the governor adopted, that is, the amendment of the Committee which in the interests corresponds to what we have been representing, so that our argument is essentially the same – if the authority of the legislator is the protection of the average user of this type of financial services, then it is logical that the deposit with the agreed currency clause is linked exclusively to official NBS courses. Also, respecting the reasons for the adoption of the amendment to the abovementioned members automatically withdraws and the adoption of this amendment in order to preserve the consistency of the text of the law. In practice, it has often occurred that by telephone or other similar means the banks notify the depositors of the details of the extension of the deposit agreement, so it is logical to oblige them to do so in writing. It is also necessary to point out in a new position the pre-inclusive nature of the period left to the depositary in paragraph 4 in order to make clear the consequences of the non-exploitation of the possibility of termination of the contract. The contract is always reliant and must arise, that it stems from the text of the law. Even though you refused our amendment by calling for all of this to be specified by the contract, we believe that the contract will rely on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55363	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Governor of the National Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55364	On behalf of the promoter, I would like to thank you for this proposal for the amendments and further elaborated and to accept the amendment to Article 22 submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic, which reads in Article 22(1) of point 10, after the word "responsibility" is added to the words "and mandatory treatment". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55365	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Milica Vojić Markovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55366	I'm going to use my right to thank, first of all, for one correct piece of work, because today we can convince the promoter that our amendments are good and that he accepts it. I thank the governor, and I hope it will be a good practice and in the future, that the ministers will come, that we can change the laws. Looks like they're avoiding that part.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55367	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, the Finance Committee has tabled an amendment to Article 23. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55368	I'll be very brief. In Article 24(2), the words “in writing” are added after the words “it has to do with this”. This is neither a grammatical nor a lexic, nor a spelling question. In practice, it happens daily that banks in no way or in an inadequate way inform their clients of the changed use circumstances, for example, of the current account and so on. For this reason, the obligation to notify in writing, which has indeed the specific weight, I would say, for the user of financial services, that is, he has a more concrete and long-term lead on what the bank expects of him or what imposes on him as a new rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55369	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the governor of the National Bank Dejan Šoštic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55370	Thank you very much. We have accepted this amendment as a promoter to Article 29, which was submitted by the MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric, who is replaced by the words “in writing” and “in writing” in paragraph 2. “in writing” is replaced by the words “in writing”.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55371	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the title above Articles 30 and 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Vojić Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55372	Madam Chairman, Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 30 reads this (the title is "The change of other elements of the contract"): "The bank, i.e. the leaser, is obliged to inform the user in a timely manner of changing the data which is not mandatory elements of the contract within the meaning of this law. “ When we looked at this, we were in a dilemma... The loan contract contains seventeen elements, and the one we have proposed by the amendment that was accepted is the eighteenth. No, it's the 17th, it's not accepted. Then, the lease contract contains very exhaustive twenty mandatory elements; the payment card issue and use contract contains 13 elements; the deposit contract contains sixteen mandatory elements. The opening and keeping of accounts contract shall contain the following six elements which are mandatory. When we analyzed what the mandatory elements were, when we really examined what they contained in detail, we simply couldn't find which elements are now new and which are not mandatory. We were in a dilemma of what mandatory, or optional elements were, so we'd like to hear what kind of comment Mr. Governor would give us. That's why we felt there was really no need for one of these members to stand, because there are so many detailed elements here, mandatory elements, that are binding on everyone. In principle, I think that this article 30 really doesn't have a purpose and that's why we suggested that it be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55373	The word has the governor of the National Bank Dejan Šoštic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55374	Thank you very much for this question. It is actually the elements of a contract that are more technical, for example, the address of a financial institution or phone number, web address etc. So elements that are not essential elements of the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55375	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted to the 31st amendment. The amendment was also accepted by the National Bank of Serbia and the Financial Committee. He's in search. We don't have a report from the Legislative Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric together submitted the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the governor of the National Bank Dejan Šoštic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55376	Thank you very much. This is another amendment, which I accept as a proposing, therefore, that in Article 31 paragraph 2 the word “literate” should be replaced by the words “in writing” and that the words “in writing” should be replaced in the words “in writing”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55377	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55378	Thank you. In Article 32, it refers to the delay, i.e. what happens when a financial service user comes into a difficult asset situation and cannot fulfil its obligations to the financial service provider, or to the bank. We have completed here, or we suggest adding a new point 4. But before I read what we are proposing to add, perhaps because of the citizens who listen to this transmission, I should, if nothing, convince what is proposed in this article. For example, in point 2 of the proposal, the applicant says: “If, during the duration of the contractual relationship, circumstances resulting in a difficult property situation, i.e. other relevant circumstances that cannot be affected by the user, the bank, or the leaser, may, at the request of the user, declare a default in payment (moratorium) for a certain period in which the bank, i.e. the leaser, does not account for a tight interest on the maturity and unsettled demand. “ The bank, i.e. the leaser, can lay down criteria for the declaration of default in its internal acts. “ In other words, when a service user falls into a difficult property condition... I would say, everyone who is in Serbia today in some financial services, whether it's a loan, whether it's a lease payment, is in a difficult asset condition. Here, the promoter in some way wanted all of us, as well as the users, to convince the banks that they would be understood when the user who is facing them in a difficult asset situation, or is out of a job, is unable to repay either the credit war or the interest. Currently in Serbia, in one city in Šumadia, assets are seized because people used to lend their assets under mortgage, these were conditions, so it is not clear that financial service providers have some understanding of when the user is going into a difficult asset situation, that is, when the delay appears, as you call it, in paying off credit and interest. We propose adding in this article a new position 4, which reads: “If a bank, i.e. a leaser, does not grant a delay in payment (moratorium) for a certain period, the competent court, on a reasoned request by the user, may order a delay in payment. Refunds may not last longer than six months and may only be ordered once per user. During that time, there is no accounting for tight interest on the due claim. “ Perhaps economic or financial experts, and perhaps the governor himself, will say yes, yes, yes, so little Perica imagines a paradise. As someone who is not a financial expert, but an ordinary citizen, but also a national MP, who is obliged to convey anxiety and to warn about what is really happening in life, I felt that we might somehow be able to protect those with whom there has been a delay. You're saying here that the bank will use some of its internal acts to lay down criteria for declaring a default in payment. What happens if, say, last year over a hundred thousand people were out of work, if 50% of them were using some financial service, so everyone went into a difficult property situation? It may happen, for example, that the bank says by its internal act – in the next half of the year we will not approve anyone of the delay because there are so many in the delay, so let the citizens get along and let them do what they know and know, they have to pay off the loans. In order not to keep it here and not put an end to it, I think this law should provide that if the bank does not approve a default or declare that moratorium the user can turn to the court and that the court can order the bank, or whoever provides the financial service, to approve the moratorium. Of course, here we also state the limit that it can be for one user only once and no longer than six months. However, why did you not accept the amendment? You say it is not accepted because the solution proposed is not in line with the concept of the proposed law. I really wanted to believe that the concept of the proposed law is what it is called, which is the protection of users of financial services, i.e. consumer protection. This amendment of ours is indeed in the spirit of this law, if you are sincere in your intention. You also say that the proposed amendment would largely limit the trustee's right to collect the due claims, especially given that the criteria for the court's conduct have not been precisely defined. The court itself has criteria. That was our wish, to limit the trustee's right to collect his due claims in ways that are not allowed, humanely, in a country where the economic situation is very bad and where most of the financial services users are really in a difficult economic state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55379	Seven minutes and fifteen seconds have been used. Given that the applicant is also an amendment, it means that five minutes has been used since the time of the authorised representative. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55380	I would take the opportunity to say in the debate about the delay that we have missed, but not just you, but also us MPs, to regulate a legally tightened interest on those obligations that are indexed in foreign currency. I did, as a member of the Forward Serbia-SNS Parliament Club, try to solve it at a time when we discussed the high interest rate law that treated the dinars. Realising that there is a legal gap in our practice and laws, that there is no regulated rate of tightening interest on foreign currency claims, then I have submitted an amendment that has consistently implemented a concept solution for dinar claims as late. At that time, I suggested that foreign currency claims should be subject to interest at the reference rate prescribed by the central bank in the currency state, plus 6% per year, which is the corresponding application of what is on the dinar delays in the liabilities of that kind. Why was it important to do that? Why am I complaining to you in some way now? When you hear that someone has a hearing about what happens as a problem in the economy, then you complain about what you haven't solved in time. If the point of tightening interest is that in one part disciplines one who is late, but also to ensure that at the time of the collection of claims you can buy the same amount of material goods in the country where inflation happens, it means that there is also this revolving effect, it was really a place to settle a tight interest on claims, or loans indexed in foreign currency. In the solution that I suggested then, and I was rejected by the Assembly. Proposer, Government, that we discuss dinar claims, and not indexed in foreign currency, we have stuck to the solutions of the High Court of Commerce, the proposal of the profession and that concept solution that has been given in terms of demand in dinars. I'm expressing my sincere regret that I didn't, maybe it was appropriate for me to submit the same amendment, but you have to admit that we leave the banks here to regulate that tight interest, because the bond law doesn't solve this. So, I claim, in the experience of our judiciary, that there is a legal gap and that, on the basis of a verdict of a higher court in charge of this (meaning, the High Court of Commerce, now the Trade Court), I have actually held something that is just, justly, secures and revaluation, but also destimulates that someone is late with the payment of that kind of claim. If not at this point, it simply remains for you as a competent institution to arrange this, not to leave the width, as the Bond Relations Act says, because it is evident that the legal void exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55381	Three minutes and thirty seconds spent from the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 33rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55382	Thank you very much. In the name of the promoter, I would like to inform you that we accept the amendment to Articles 33, 2 and 3 submitted by the MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djerić and which reads as follows: "In position 2, the written word is replaced by the words, in written form. In point 3, the word ‘in writing’ is replaced by the words ‘in writing’. Also, if you let me thank you for this useful suggestion and elaborate, in fact, we've established a possible existence of a legal void that should be regulated in a certain way, probably in some other law that regulates the issue of tight interest. Also, regarding the discussion of the honourable People's MPs on this, Article 32, we've been thinking about different modes on this issue. However, it exceeded confidence to limit the right of the trustee to collect claims, which would necessarily affect the price of the financial service in the process of determining the growth of the price, i.e. the growth of the interest rate, or the rise in the price of the financial lease service, on the one hand. On the other hand, as you know, we citizens are in a double role: on the one hand, we take loans, but on the other hand we are depositors and we save in banks. Any relaxation on the side of credit approval actually raises the security risk of the banking system in general, and a very important component in this is the security of citizens' deposits. So we believe that this effect on the growth of the interest rate is potentially due to the growth of the premium risk, in a situation where there is and is introduced into the system one uncertainty about the trustee's right to collect claims, a very strong argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55383	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Popović and Jovan Palalic together submitted to the title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55384	Let me just say that the Committee on Finance's solution and the adoption of the amendment has actually covered and further deepened the solution that we have proposed and that it is without substance to discuss this amendment further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55385	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 34. It is an amendment that mentions deputy president of the Jorvanka Tabakovic parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the proposing representative accept the amendment of the Committee?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55386	If you allow me briefly, therefore, it is one of those members, i.e. the amendments that are de facto, I would say of a general approval, better decided by the promoter, the Assembly Committee on Finance. The People's Bank as a Proposer accepted that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55387	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the title above Articles 35 and 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National Bank of Serbia submitted to Article 36 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55388	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the title above article 36 is "Employment payment". It's the element that banks are very afraid of and are trying to protect, and the whole chapter is about that. On the other hand, the user can't wait to come to the stage so he can pay off his loan prematurely. In paragraph 3, you stated: “The bank may request compensation from Article 2 of this article on condition that the amount of early payment over 12 months is greater than 600,000 dinars. “ Our amendment intervention refers to our increasing this amount to a million dinars. We believe that the 4th and 5th, which you have stated here in the bill, should be deleted. ‘The loss referred to in Article 2 shall mean the difference between the interest rate agreed with the user and the market interest rate at which the bank may place the amount obtained by early payment at the time of this payment, including administrative costs’. The following is added: “The user may request an appropriate reduction of the fee referred to in Article 2 if the amount of that fee is greater than the actual loss suffered in the sense of Article 4. “ So, we understand the importance of the promoter, but we believe that the amount the promoter gave (600,000) is really low and should be increased, especially in view of this fact that at the end of March users were in debt to banks close to five billion euros. That's why we asked for this amount to increase. By increasing this, we feel that Article 36, paragraphs 4 and 5 are really unnecessary and should be deleted. This is how we improve the bill and I really don't see why you wouldn't accept that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55389	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Governor of the National Bank of Serbia Dejan Soskic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55390	Thank you very much. I would remind you that the National Bank of Serbia has proposed Amendment 1 which is related to Article 36, which accepts your proposal that the bank may request compensation from Article 2 of this article provided that the amount of early payment is greater than 12 months. On the other hand, this amendment also comes to the meeting, I would say to a decisive extent, and to the next amendment, that is the number 40, so the amendment to Article 36, which was submitted by the MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pelevic, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radic, Mico Rogovic, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz. This amendment came from the proposal to delete in Article 36(7). We think the amendment we submitted to the Assembly is on the line of that solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55391	Since the amendment has become an integral part of the bill, does anyone else want a word? I ask the MPs to keep that in mind. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55392	Thank you. Not to call us, as it is the same amendment, I must admit, we submitted the amendment on May 9th, we asked for an erasure; the National Bank was on May 9th, and the memo arrived in the Assembly of the 10th, much more comprehensively and in more detail solved this matter. Now that it is not for us to praise the National Bank or the new governor, it is simply necessary that you provide someone with compensation for the funds he has intended, approved and hired for you. If you give up the use of those funds, you have to make up for the cost of that engagement of the funds that she has allocated to you and now they remain free. I don't want to defend the People's Bank at any moment, but to bring this duality of will, not contractual relationship, but the duality of conditionality, doctor – patient, banker – the user of credit – to the right extent of usefulness and mutual responsibility. The amendment submitted by the National Bank, relating to early repayment of the loan as a possibility that is somewhat costing, is indeed the right measure of this bilateral relationship of usefulness and interdependence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55393	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55394	In Article 38(7), we felt that "loses resulting from this basis" could be replaced by the words "future losses resulting from the bank’s untimely conduct upon application". We felt that this formulation was logically and chronologically more precise than that of the bill, perhaps even more stringent than the users of financial services and banks, or more strictly precise about their relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55395	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. The National Bank of Serbia accepted the amendment, the Finance Committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 39th amendment. The National Bank of Serbia accepted the amendment, the Finance Committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the 40th amendment. The National Bank of Serbia accepted the amendment, the Finance Committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Government has submitted to the 40th Amendment. The National Bank of Serbia accepted the amendment, the Finance Committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 41st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55396	Mr. Shoskic, the SRS Parliamentary Group does not share much enthusiasm with the fact that you have adopted some amendments here, and you have adopted some before, because none of the amendments adopted has essentially changed anything, it is more of a legal order of this text. I say this for the sake of the public, so as not to get the impression that you respect the opinion of the MPs. Of course it's not like that, and it would be weird if it were. Article 41, which I have submitted an amendment to on behalf of the SRS Group, says: "The unfair contractual provisions and the unfair business, as well as the ban procedure, are applied accordingly to the provisions of the law governing consumer protection. “ We say that the Criminal Code should also be added here, so that the provisions of the Criminal Code, in addition to this Consumer Protection Act, are applied in the case of unfair contractual provision and unfair business. You say that this is unacceptable for you because this member has not defined the concepts of unfair and unfair business, nor the prohibition of such business, but merely referred to the relevant provisions of the law governing consumer protection, which is otherwise detailed in this matter. So, you yourself in this argument admit that your article 41 is not good, because you're saying that you haven't precisely defined these terms. We in the Serbian Radical Party see no reason why the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia cannot be applied here. You know, if you yourself say that this is not defined enough, there are certain criminal acts in the Criminal Code and certainly unfair contractual provisions and unfair business of banks as financial service providers could be undermined under the terms of the Criminal Code. That would mean that you sincerely want to protect the users of financial services. If you do not accept this amendment, then we are sure that this law is only a matter of order and that it is some law that should be "made-up" to act without actually having any intention, that the National Bank has no sincere intention of protecting the users of financial services. In order for citizens to understand what this means, it means, simply put, that people who are raising loans in foreign banks that were installed in Serbia ten years ago and who have been robbing Serbian citizens for 11 years. These are those banks that were introduced into Serbia when they were abolished, on the justice of God, the largest Serbian bank. For ten years, these foreign banks have exploited Serbian citizens, as well as Serbia's economy, expensive loans, high interest rates. Now that the citizens of Serbia, unfortunately, have come into the situation, every day we are witnesses, the newspaper of ads from various banks that offer for sale of houses, apartments, salaries, business premises, etc., what the citizens gave as a property on which the mortgage was placed when we took the loan, now that we've come into this situation, you've remembered to pass a law on the protection of the users of financial services. First, it's too late, I hope you're okay with it; maybe it's not too late, it's too late, but maybe it's not too late, maybe this law could protect some future users of financial services. Unfortunately, those who have become users of financial services until the adoption of this law will not be protected, and that is certainly clear to you, and that is also a big problem. If you do not accept, I repeat, at least this amendment, unless the guilty bankers who conclude unfair contracts and who are unfairly doing business are responsible, then we do not really see what the purpose of this law is. That is why I propose, Mr Shoskic, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, that the National Bank and you as governor, in an honest intention to help users of financial services (i.e. to make the people understand what it means – the users of bank loans), adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55397	They've been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Before we continue the search in detail, for the sake of stenograms and compliance with the reports of the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, amendments that have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Government has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The amendment was accepted by the National Bank of Serbia, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee, and became an integral part of the bill. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The amendment was adopted by the National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee believes it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia accepted this amendment, as well as the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, so I realize that this amendment has also become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 17th amendment. This amendment was adopted by the National Bank of Serbia, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. This amendment was adopted by the National Bank of Serbia, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Government has submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The amendment was adopted by the National Bank of Serbia, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, and this amendment has also become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 22nd amendment together. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted this amendment, as well as the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, and this amendment has also become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 31st amendment. The amendment was adopted by the National Bank of Serbia, as well as by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, and this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The National Bank of Serbia submitted to the 36th amendment. The amendment was adopted by the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution, and this amendment has also become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Zoran Krasic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55398	About this amendment to the Vervain Radeta. Just in the beginning, check there, and the government's amendment to Article 38 has been passed, but there should be correction, not attitude 8, but attitude 7, so you know. Article 41. If this substance, which is regulated by this law on the protection of users of financial services, is derived from the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, and is, then in Article 41 of this proposal, which is on the agenda, we are talking about unfair contractual provisions and unfair business, this is treated by the Consumer Protection Act, so you know; Article 46 provides some details. I wouldn't go to any small details right now, but basically it is that such a contract and those provisions are nothing, they don't produce facts. This is why a return to the past should be made later. It is likely that what the Verse of Radeta wrote in the amendment implies, so you conclude that it may not need to be particularly potent, because the Criminal Law applies to everything. It's probably that logic. But what will it look like in practice? Here, let's take an example. So, unfair contractual provisions are nothing, and these may be provisions that result in significant disproportionateness in the obligations of the parties, and at the expense of consumers, here the beneficiary of the financial service. You know, the basic principle of bonds is the equality of actions, the proportion of value. If there is an obvious disproportionateity, that contract is not right. The losing party has the right to compensation for damages. All legal systems want to preserve the free will of the parties, but take care of equivalence, approximately equal value of the actions of both parties and other parties. Now, if we want to pretend, like, French maids, then we can say that the parties, the banks and the citizens, are equal. Well, they are, they're just on paper. Come on, now you explain one thing to me. Most of the claims on natural persons provide a mortgage, but still retains a high interest rate, they say – a high risk. So what's the risk of looking for a bank when it has a mortgage? And yet the value of the mortgage probably doubles the value of the loan granted, at least, but they still keep that high interest rate. You know, we now have a commercial that says – we approve a 0% interest loan. Someone would've thought that banker was all over the place. Where can a 0% interest be treated like a banker? The banker, though charges 50%, will say 49.5%. That's what's going on with us, you know. Then put in a little girl who says, "Uncle, do you have an apartment?" Do you know what they're all used to? They abuse children to make a profit. What they don't do. Now we say, those provisions, there's a presumption that they don't exist, they're nothing, they don't exist. How can someone do that in our justice system? Not at all, people. Why? Because it's still dominant that raw principle of the market economy: it's taking -- it's giving; you want credit, I have money, and my money costs so much and so much. Now there are some provisions being written here, something being protected by consumers, something being protected by the sausages, and, you know, the bankers themselves can't wait for you to fall into some contractual obligation to them. Even if the delay occurs, it's not bad, because the taximeter works all the time. When Ceausescu paid off all possible loans to the IMF, they killed him, the people happened to him. You know what it's like in the West? Just pay off one loan, you'll get ten notices – you're creditworthy, you can check in with us. You solve the interest rate issue, and you've solved everything. But you won't solve it because there's this Vienna deal, the Vienna Initiative, where you guarantee the profits that banks can make. That is why banks that will be nominal owners of a large number of immovableities in Serbia appear. Like this Cupic's "Hipo" - he fell into a dubiosis because of Belville, so now he's pulling out and taking over claims, and now she's going to be in charge. The bankers are smiling. We now need to believe in the sincerity of these provisions, and we are aware of who will apply those provisions in court. You know how it is with banks – good afternoon, dear, here you go, nothing hurts when we open the account, but when you have to close the account, then the procedure, the game of accounts starts. Serbia becomes more and more prisoners of the banking system every day. Why? Because this banking system isn't really ours, it's foreign. Then we come up with nice picturesque things, everything is nice, the National Bank says nice – now informing, user rights, contractual determination, retroactivity, early payment, all nice and cuddly, except you don't take it. And when you took it into your hands, you fell forever and ever. Five hundred thousand families due to the banks of this bill, and if it comes to law, it won't do any good, remember. It won't do any good. What does this remind me of? This reminds me, the Nišli know very well, there was a Zoran Zivkovic who said they were putting electricity bills into the barrels. He was, by some mental error, the Prime Minister, so when he was reminded of it, he stole the video sooner or later, so that no one could see it. And when the distribution said it had to be paid, then a lawyer showed up and said he would sue on behalf of the citizens; then the citizens went into distribution, made agreements and thus fell into an even worse situation because they gave up obsolescence. What the National Bank is doing is this very operation. We're so well guarded that we have to say – thank you, don't, somehow we'll figure it out ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55399	Eight minutes and twenty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55400	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45(2), but before I go on the basis of this amendment, I must link this position of Article 45 to the provisions of Article 42. I think he basically defines the conduct of the National Bank in this case. In fact, it is said: “The user of banking and lease services is entitled to a written objection to the provider of these services if he considers that the donor does not adhere to the provisions of the laws, general conditions of business, good business practice and obligations of the contract concluded with the user. “ These are very serious qualifications for the service provider – it does not adhere to the provisions of the law, general conditions of business, good business practices and obligations of the contract concluded with the user. I'm going back to Article 45. The title above this article is "The Procedure of the National Bank of Serbia". So this member is making legal assumptions about punishing all financial service providers who are committing an injury from Article 42 that I have read. When we were making amendments, the original proposal was to delete this member – the conduct of the National Bank of Serbia. The conduct of the National Bank of Serbia is foreseen by the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and the Law on Banks, and the criminal policy in accordance with the provisions of the two laws. Is it necessary in this law, in terms of protection, to prescribe penalties, if we have already prescribed penalties there? The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that there is no need. You put them in here and now you create secondary legislation, which is always dangerous. Why? Because in some situations you will apply the provisions of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, the second time the Bank Act, for the third time this, for the fourth time you will apply the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, etc., which in practice can cause certain problems, unnecessary. Why is it still unnecessary? Because through direct control of the bank's operations, we can determine all of what you stated in Article 42. We in practice have hundreds and thousands of cases of violations of the provisions of the law, violations of general conditions of business, good business practices and avoidance of contractual obligations. What did you prescribe in article 45? If the service provider performs one of the injuries, the user has the right to object and the complaint is referred to the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia in the situation imposes a fine under Article 50 of the law. In accordance with Article 2(2) of the amendment, the following is said: if the service provider does not provide, even after the payment of the fine referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article, evidence that it has removed irregularities within the time limit set for the issuing of that penalty, the NBS will give him a fine in a double amount, etc. So, the service provider (most often we're talking about banks) makes a serious breach, by a contract defined, so he abuses that contract, he wants to win on purpose, the National Bank will punish him. You will punish him twice if he does not remove what you have ordered with a solution. It goes on forever. Our proposal was to be a tenfold sentence. Regardless of this tenfold sentence that we have provided for this amendment solution, the position is the SRS – you do not put criminal policy here, you also have it in the NBS Act, you have it in the Banks Act, you have it in the Criminal Code. Even a colleague, Verica Radeta, proposed with her amendment to introduce criminal legislation for numerous abuses. Why are we passing this law if it's all right? The problem is the explanation you gave with this bill. You set the goal of this law and say, "The aim of this law is to improve good business practice and a fair attitude towards financial services users." No fair relationship, that's why you bring this. On the other hand, you say, "The protection of consumers is Serbia's international obligation." How come all of a sudden, an international obligation today? Didn't we have that five, seven, ten years ago? Then, in your explanation, you say: "According to the SAA Act, which also lists a member of 78th, the harmonisation of consumer protection in Serbia as well as EU standards... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” So, the alignment caused the provisions of this law, not the fact that there were tens and hundreds of thousands of any abuses by bankers and other financial services. That's it, but it's late again, the agreement was signed in 2008, today is 2011. Certain provisions will take effect only at the end of this year. There are dozens and hundreds of thousands of abuses by the banking system, you're aware of that. The mediations you conduct, the mediation between the provider and the service user... They're talking to the National Bank. With what success do you resolve these disputes? With great success? I'm tracking it on the NBS site. It's not a success. The banking system, as you imagine it, is perfectly solved. Banks are ideal institutions, which meet the needs of citizens. They should meet the needs of citizens, but not in a way like that in our country. On the other hand, exguerner Jelasic has repeatedly talked here about high interest rates in the banking system, explaining this at a high risk of business in the Republic of Serbia. Look, why would these foreign banks, or foreign shareholders who invested capital here in our banks, risk it? Let's get them off our market. No market... In particular, risk markets are not attractive, etc. But what's attractive? Attractive interest. Through the interest system is everything that is healthy in this country. In EU interest policy, interest is moving around 3.4.5%. It's unthinkable to get a loan here under these conditions. Why are banks taking risks? Just because they're getting very cheap funding. Through the deposit system, five, six, seven percent are poured, and sold twice as much and sometimes ten times as much. You know that. What does the NBS and the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia seem to prevent it? That's why it's a suggestion from the Serbian Radical Party, this should be an emergency, as the higher and higher rate of late payments is increasing, especially in the economy. You shut down the business here, you shut down the legal faces. The greatest abuses are there. There's no one to protect that economy. You say, "There are lawyers in these companies, so let them be concerned." How can you deal with the unconscious business of banks? Can these lawyers handle it? I can't handle it, because excessive criminal law needs to stop it. You've thrown criminal legislation out of all of this, that's the problem. What's the next problem? The monopolization of the market. This is where the Western banks came. If we want free competition, if we really want to cultivate a banking system here, all the banks that have an interest have to come here, so they risk it. Why not risk more Russian banks, more Chinese, more Japanese banks? Let them take the same risk as these banks in Western Europe. The directives you received from the EU prohibit these banks from entering the Serbian market. That's the basics, that's the essence of the problem. What you do to Serbian citizens is abuse of position in both the National Bank and the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia. We need to get back to the legal regulations you've processed in this law. Since, more or less, in almost all Western European countries, this matter is covered by the consumer protection law, and here it was necessary to protect consumers with very clear legal solutions. The user of financial services is the consumer and must be protected by one law. You've brought in, the current government has passed the Consumer Protection Act, you're passing a law on the protection of users of financial services, and then there will be more who knows what kind of protection. How are you going to solve double standardization of certain categories? The law on bond relations, which is old, seems to me, for 33 years, defined this matter. As long as you applied the Bond Relations Act, you had the opportunity to prevent abuses in the banking system. Next, you have here a violation of certain legal regulations relating to the National Bank Act, relating to the Bank Act, etc., a bunch of legal regulations that you have now introduced into this, and you have found no solution in general. This isn't a solution. This isn't going to score. You can do as much as you want to, but there's no practice of it. The practice of the National Bank is this: no criminal policy. We're monitoring your reports and seeing that there's no... There is a certain control, but there is no criminal policy. Listen, when you say in the law that a bank service user can address the National Bank in terms of protection because of non-compliance with the provisions of the law, it's a harsh violation of the legal system... Non-compliance with the general conditions of business, good business practice and obligations under the contract concluded with the user, it is a violation of the legal rules. If there's no punishment... Well, look, a child goes into self-service and steals a thing, so it's gonna be punished; next time he's gonna end up in jail, no matter what the underage is. That's the way it is with the citizens. But here, on dozens of contracts, you're aware of that, violation, violation, violation, etc. But that's not the problem, the problem is the extent of this breach and the problem is the extent of the duties of legal and physical persons. Legal entities, according to data from the National Bank and the Bank Association, are responsible for around 12.5 billion citizens over five billion euros. Seventeen-and-a-half billion euros at the moment is the responsibility of citizens and the economy of Serbia! In what conditions can this be returned normally? Only in a natural environment that will create a state. Is the state creating an ambience to normally work and attract? It doesn't, and that's why there's fear. The Serbian Radical Party believes this is a key law. This law had to be passed far earlier and had to be far more serious in terms of criminal policy. This is where you predicted the fines, it'll be later in the review, the fines are minimal. Why are the penalties minimum? Because you can't punish them, that's the basic problem, that's the whole point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55401	Thirteen minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Does the governor of the NBS want to declare the amendment to Article 42, which was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric? This is an amendment which states in its content: Article 42 of the first sentence "written objection" is changed in the words "in writing form", and in the same article, point 2 of the word "written" is replaced by the words "in writing". Would you like to make a statement? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55402	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, I would like to inform the National Assembly to accept the amendment to Article 42 submitted by the MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Đeric, which reads in Article 42, paragraph 1 of the word "written objection" are changed in the words "in writing form", and in the same article, the words "in writing" are replaced in the words "in writing". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55403	Thank you. The 45th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Shoskic, given the importance of the National Bank of Serbia, it is said to be a central bank and that its existence is determined by the Constitution, including some of your own professional properties, we expected far more quality law. Here, on the basis of Article 45, and just by mentioning Article 50 of this Law, I will show that even the average knowledge of writing legal acts was not represented in the drafting of this law. We have submitted an amendment to Article 45: "The fine of this member is paid at the expense of the National Bank of Serbia. “ Our proposal is to say: “The fine of this member is paid at the expense of the Republic of Serbia’s budget. “ Why did you want to save yourself and your criminal policies here? Of course, that inflow would go to the NBS instead of the Republic of Serbia's budget. If you accept this amendment, you will show that you care about protecting not only financial services users, but also to indirectly protect the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which must certainly be the objective of the National Bank of Serbia. Very often, colleagues from the SRS mentioned a negative relationship between foreign banks in Serbia. I have to tell you, in principle, we have nothing against foreign banks but the policy they run here. This is not a relationship to help citizens of Serbia, or users of financial services, but simply favour these banks. Someone before you destroyed domestic banks, which took a lot of care to develop the real economic sector, to develop production in Serbia, to bring foreign banks that should benefit directly, and perhaps some individuals. And so far, the National Bank of Serbia has controlled the operations of banks and only in some error in the relation of the commercial bank, i.e. the business bank – the NBS may have been given some criminal measures, but for the first time now you are trying to propose a law to protect the users of financial services. If you hadn't put your shoes on seven miles in a hurry towards the EU, if it hadn't been for Directive 2008/48, this Bill on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services might not have been proposed today. This does not achieve anything special, does not protect the rights of users of financial services. If that were the case, we would have an analysis of the state of the financial services users are now, and then we could concentrate on what direction this bill is headed. If it is defined and represented by its name, not by the MPs, but by the one who is written and can read, then such a law is expected to protect, above all, the user of financial services. It can't be seen from any of the provisions of this law as to how financial services users who have current accounts at banks will be protected and which, when cash is raised, are their profits or pensions over a certain amount... Of course, when they turn away from it, they say, "Yes, we have sinned." If they raise over a certain amount in one day, at the parent bank, they charge them a fee for such a type of service. From this law, we cannot recognize whether they will be protected. This article of the 45th, which we have submitted to the amendment and wanted to remove this ambiguity – it is not only a misunderstanding, but we wanted to protect some of the funds that can be raised because of the unconscious business of the banks – is related to Article 42. It's a bill of law. He says, if they are damaged or not well protected by the rights of users of these services, the service user first has the right to object to his bank and to wait 30 days, so if he is not given a positive answer or not responded within that time limit, he has the right to appeal to the National Bank. Then the National Bank will execute the punishment. It's said to be double and the funds received will go to the NBS. We suggested that it go into the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think it's more meaningful and far better. Now we're perfectly clear on why such high wages are so high, I don't want to talk about the salary of the governor of the NBS, but, let's say, officials at the National Bank of Serbia have salaries that exceed the salaries of doctors, surgeons, university professors. Then you say, and your predecessor spoke – well, we are a profit organization, we are a commercial organization, we create money. This is how it is easy to create: so, the National Bank of Serbia, foreseen by the Constitution, is protected, has a certain supervisory function over commercial banks; then due to disregard for some relations, some good business practices of punishment and the means to charge for themselves. That looks like the same thing to me if an unwitting driver stopped a cop, and I'm not going to tell him personally to charge that fine, but if the punishment went to the M.O.P. I don't think that's right and you'll have to take care of it. I think this amendment should be accepted. You would show, in addition to "written" or "written", that it is not makeup, but that there is indeed a serious intention for banks to, when there are conditions for it, when they do not operate securely, penalties and that these funds go into the Republic of Serbia's budget. But what makes them so high interest? When we talk about foreign banks, the biggest regret of the SRS MPs is that they are interest, so on. active interest, from the aspect of banks extremely high, several times larger than they are in domicile states. If you say very often that we are a credit country, that our credit rating is good and so high interest justifies the risk, then why the reason for such high interest? There is no, there is no, but it is about what counterpart Krasic was talking about – probably someone has committed themselves (naturally before you, Šoštic, and does not mean that you are now giving some resistance to it) that the banks that come to Serbia will do well, that they have no risk whatsoever, no economic operator. Banks are also business entities. No one bears responsibility or risks. In such conditions, it's easy to do business. In such conditions anyone can do business, but we must take care of our citizens first. I mentioned article 50, and with one or two sentences, I'll explain it to you. A fine of 500,000 dinars is scheduled for any violation of the provisions of this law. That means it's a certain legal minimum. The legal minimum is 500,000, and the legal maximum is not prescribed and it can be as large as is intended for any crime. If only a legal minimum is determined, then the legal maximum should be as high as it is for any crime. You have now submitted, I think, the National Bank has submitted an amendment to correct this. It's said to be fined 500,000. If it's from, it has to be limited to at least 500.001 dinars. You didn't do it. I expect that after this discussion, I think that, Mr. Shoskovic, I've made a lot of arguments, this amendment will be accepted, because you can't work just in the interest of the NBS. By the way, the National Bank has an obligation to take care of price stability. In case the dinar is rising from the euro, what happens to the prices? I think the Board of Governors of the NBS should do an analysis as quickly as possible and see if the prices remain at that level that they were at when 106 or 110 dinars were to be allocated for one euro. You should be on time for that. Several Serbian Radical Party counterparts said the law was passed late. It's not too late, but it's too late. So in time, you intervene as NBS, related to prices, because that is, by the National Bank Act, the obligation of the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55405	Seven minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Governor of the National Bank Dejan Šoštic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55406	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to take a brief look at some of the arguments we've heard. One of the arguments directly concerns this amendment to Article 45(4), which states that the NBS is charging fines. This is one principle that exists in the Banks Act, so the National Bank behaves as a supervisor in this way also in the normal supervisory process of banks. What we cannot lose sight of is the fact that this money, of course, does not go to the National Bank of Serbia as the National Bank of Serbia. The relationship between the profits achieved by the National Bank of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia is very clear. The Law on the National Bank of Serbia, Article 77(6), says very clearly – a profit that did not result from the exchange rate differences and the revolving reserves of the National Bank of Serbia is allocated in a way that 70% and profits go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that you certainly had the opportunity to receive a 2009 financial report as MPs for which some 2.5 billion dinars were transferred from the National Bank of Serbia to the budget of the Republic of Serbia; for 2010, this amounted to just over 4.1 billion dinars. In other words, the link between the National Bank of Serbia and the budget is quite direct and active. With regard to the number of times mentioned the thesis on interest rates, I remind you only, regardless of what is not related to our debate today, the level of interest rates in one monetary system depends on multiple factors. One is the one often mentioned in public, which is the perception of the risk of providing financial services in one country. However, we must not forget one much more direct and clear relationship, that we as citizens when we go to the banks to deposit funds also get a significantly higher interest rate than the citizens of other countries. This passive interest rate is, among other things, one of the important price components in determining the active interest rate, so the ones that banks charge us when we appear as customers of financial services on the other side of the process. On the other hand, we must not forget that the price of capital is the price formed on the basis of supply and demand. Serbia, as a relatively poor country, still has a scarce resource, capital, and hence its price is normally higher than in countries where capital is abundant in resources. Certainly this does not mean that there are no positive steps in the direction of an analysis of the structure and the price of capital in our country. I think it's possible in that domain to take some steps forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55407	Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MPs Sreto Perić and Milorad Buha. National MP Milorad Buh, you have two minutes from the time of the authorised representative, and the time available to the parliamentary group is thirteen minutes and thirty seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55408	Here, the governor said that 30% of the funds charged, to say, out of punishment, to be understood by those following this transfer, remains with the National Bank of Serbia. With this amendment, we wanted to achieve that the funds that the National Bank of Serbia has achieved in such a way belong in full to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the point. When it comes to the relationship between passive and active interest, you are right that in our country there is a slightly larger and passive interest, from the aspect of banks, but you forget that at this point in time credit is taken much more than Serbian citizens have the opportunity to save. When you say it is not true that you have in mind those who work at the National Bank of Serbia, they can certainly save something, but those who work for 10,000 - 15,000 on a monthly level, or close to a million people who are unemployed, cannot save, they have to be in debt. This now seems to us to be, about, when we bring together information that an article that is not present in the daily human diet has a low price, and bread, for example, the crowds, so you say, well, yes, the bread is expensive, but it's costing us meat. Well, we can't bring things to each other that don't have anything to do with each other, but they're not... Here, colleagues say what might have been cheap. Don't look at it that way, we would still have to pay more attention to the citizens who are in charge, because the law itself says – the law on the protection of users of financial services, does not apply to a small number of those who are able to save something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55409	Two minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55410	Mr. Shoskovic, I think we can agree with your words about the rate of interest, that it is conditioned by various elements, including the risk of business in our country. To say it's justified, it's not justified, but that's how you explain it. But there are certain fees and fees that banks charge, which are not related to various states, nor to the risk of the state. It's charged, so it's charged. The bank service, in terms of a certain fee charged by the bank, is the same here in Hungary, England, the United States. I'll remind you of a statement by our Prime Minister Cvetkovic. In New York, at a plenary session organised by the UN in connection with a crisis exit strategy, he noted that we have six or seven times more fees, more taxes than banks in the home states. Wasn't that enough to do something and limit it? The government says the risk is high in our country, but there's no risk here. It's a job, so it's a job, so it's a job. Why is it six to seven times more than in Germany, Hungary, etc.? Let's take the region, well, our interest rates are twice as big as in BiH. Our fees are three, four, five times higher than in BiH. Why is that? Why don't you compose it? When you explain this law to us, it's an obligation, where are your effects of the law? What do we get with this law? How much will the fees, fees and fees of the banking system's services be reduced? No one knows. They only know banks, they dictate conditions. That's clear to you, you're the essence of that policy. Take care of the citizens of Serbia; I can't, there's no more from where. You'll see what happens in a year, in two years, given the difficult economic situation, in social misery, inability to return. Now you're correcting minimum borrowing, you're raising; citizens will be able to charge about the entire salary, except for a small percentage. It's death for citizens, because there are no other, side lines that will protect citizens from abuse, greening and other things that the banking system does.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55411	Time was used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group and forty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we move on to the amendment that is next in line only to inform you, on the basis of Article 87, that the break will be determined when we complete the search in the details of the law that is under way, so on the 3rd point of the agenda. Once we've completed the search, we'll have an hour's break and then we'll move on to a search in detail on the fourth item of the agenda. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55412	Mr. Soskic, this amendment requires that if one of the financial service providers does not comply with the law, so when it is apparent that it violates the law, the National Bank of Serbia is obliged to make it public, to make it public. Let me remind you, in your proposal for Article 45(5), you have prescribed that the National Bank of Serbia may publish it publicly. With this amendment, I ask that she publish it publicly. Mr. Šoštic, I am sure that we can agree on one thing, and that is that we are all witnesses that in almost all areas of social, economic and public life there is a drastic violation of the law by many participants in this public, social and economic life. But some of these violations of the law are sanctioned, and some of them are not, and some are absolutely unpunished. I'm saying it's a kind of sanction and this public announcement that someone's breaking the law. For what? Because tomorrow, financial services users, in any case, when they listen to which bank, which financial service provider breaks the law most, will not decide to be clients of such a bank, such a financial service provider. That is why it is very important for the NBS to make mandatory announcements that are financial service providers that violate the law. I think it's the most normal and the least the NBS can do in a case like this is to publicly announce what kind of bank is breaking the law. Simply, if you want to protect the citizens, if you want to protect those who are users of financial services, it is clear that you need to make this public and publish it. It is interesting that the National Bank, in an explanation of the non-acceptance of this amendment, says – The National Bank estimates that there can be negative consequences for the financial system, and that there can be citizens' mistrust in financial service providers. Excuse me, Mr. Shoskic, do you really think that Serbian citizens have such great confidence in current financial service providers, therefore, in these banks? Do you think that Serbian citizens have unlimited trust in these banks, or are they going there because they really must, in most cases, because they need it to protect their naked existence? You, in fact, leave discretionary rights to the People's Bank that she can, and doesn't have to, announce who breaks the law. Explain to me, I would like to hear from you specifically, how do you protect citizens by protecting a financial service provider when he breaks the law? How do you protect the citizens in that case? I think that's the other way around. That, in fact, only deepens the mistrust in these banks. If you're protecting someone and there's a reasonable doubt that someone broke the law, and you don't publicly publish it, I'm sorry, please, how can citizens trust that bank? In the end, what banks do you want to protect with this member? Why? Are you building some first-row banks, second-row banks, or are you more likable or not, or what do I know? Why are you protecting some banks, and you don't want to publish which banks are breaking the law? Put it out there. The citizens will then be fully clear which banks should not operate, which banks should not trust. It is clear that you will fully justify the very name of this law. As you've done, there's a reasonable doubt that you actually wanted to protect some banks consciously and some that you wanted to stretch. If that's what you wanted, then it's clear why you didn't accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55413	Three minutes and fifteen seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the governor of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55414	Thank you very much. I have to admit, we've been taking a lot of thought into this thing and looking at it from different angles. We were aware of the fact that any discretion on the part of the regulators, on the one hand, was not good, because it could be interpreted precisely in this way that you mentioned; on the other hand, it is also a fact that at some point, when it comes to financial stability, it would be useful for this possibility to exist, in the sense that there is no explicit obligation to publish these data. However, I must admit that your arguments are strong, and I believe that these arguments can take the advantage of this benefit that can arise from the discretion of the regulator to publish or not publish that information. In other words, I would like to inform you that we, as a proposing, are ready to accept your amendment to Article 45, paragraph 5, which you, Mr Mirko Munjic, have submitted, which reads: Article 45, paragraph 5, "can be made public" is replaced by the words "publicly will". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55415	I find that the proposer has accepted the amendment. National MP Mirko Munjic wants a word. You have eight minutes and 15 seconds at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55416	I'll be brief. I hope this acceptance of our amendment will help at least a few citizens have more confidence in some financial service providers. Believe me, it's a very strong argument that they go there because they need it; they go to the banks for their naked existence. If you don't announce that a financial service provider has broken legal regulations, citizens simply wouldn't be able to identify themselves as a bank. That is why I believe that accepting this amendment is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55417	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is forty seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment are joint mid-day MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55418	Thank you. It is good that the proposaler accepted the amendment from a Serbian Radical Party counterpart. This also confirms the fact that, in practice, two opposition parties, therefore, and the DSS, have noticed that it is not a good formulation for this law. Practically, the two parliamentary groups that the opposition have come to the same opinion, and it is good that the governor has accepted this amendment, only differing words. Repeatedly, although the colleague mostly used a very good argument as to why this amendment should have been accepted. I'd say there are two ways or two angles of thinking. For example, you feel that you protect the financial system from negative effects if you have discretionary rights, so you do not declare how donors break the points of Article 50. Another logic is that everything needs to be made available to the public because the lack of the public has very often the opposite effect, then you have the right to doubt this discretionary right. This way, when you publish everything on the site, even if it's sometimes petty violations, it brings back trust. It's a good thing you accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55419	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55420	Thank you, Madam Vice President. If you hadn't accepted this amendment by your colleagues from the SRS, I think you would be in danger of Article 5, you know, where you are talking about the basic principles of consumer protection; there would be a threat to the right to equal relations with the financial service provider, the right to protection against discrimination and the right to protection of rights and interests. On two examples, I'll explain to you what this is all about. All banks send different letters to their clients in which they are invited and give them the opportunity to take short- and long-term loans, loans, etc. You come to that bank, you take those forms, you go back to the institution where you're employed, you fill out the data on the level of receipt, the average, you verify all of it, you go back to that bank, it goes to the review, and then they tell you – you know what, we can't give you that credit because you're employed by a political party, or we can't give you because you're a free artist and we're not sure about your constant incomes. It's perfectly right that on the National Bank site, these banks should be branded in a certain way as insolvent and the banks that violate this law we're discussing today. This is just another strengthening argument why it's good to accept this amendment. So, citizens must, when they enter the National Bank of Serbia's website, see which banks in this way discriminate against Serbian citizens by putting them in maybe second-class citizens; they allow someone to take credit, and someone, because of their belonging to a political party, employment in a political party, or because of public function, does not allow to raise credit under the same conditions under which other citizens receive loans. It's good that you've accepted this amendment and I think you've fully understood what this kind of problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55421	Two minutes and thirty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National Bank of Serbia submitted to Article 50 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. The National Bank of Serbia has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, but the Finance Committee has not been declared. The government has submitted to the 50th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55422	For the sake of the public, Article 50 has the title ‘Current penalties’. After Article 50, Article 51 goes – ‘Criminal provisions’. Now we come to a topic – who punishes? Who says the sentences? Penalties are always pronounced in some procedure. If it's a misdemeanor, it's a criminal court sentence, right? Where is the right of the National Bank to punish? Just to draw your attention, you don't even have a provision in this bill that the National Bank is applying for a misdemeanor procedure. Without such express provisions, you will not be able to initiate any criminal proceedings. If you think that's covered by the provisions of article 49 on surveillance, you're wrong. It does not cover the part relating to the authorised person for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure. So you don't have an explicit provision to initiate a misdemeanor procedure. That's the situation with the Anti-Corruption Agency. They conduct criminal proceedings, apply for a misdemeanor and the judge rejects the request, he says - there is no provision in the law that gives you the right to apply for a misdemeanour procedure. You'll have the same problem here. I'm not talking about the law on banks and other regulations where it exists. In this regulation, you do not have an explicitly prescribed jurisdiction to initiate the infringement procedure. It's more of an apropo member 51, but article 50 is talking about you punishing, you know. Who can impose sanctions? Only legally prescribed and competent authorities, courts, exceptional inspection bodies, but with an explicit legal provision giving authority to the inspection authority. The fact that the National Bank does not exercise supervision shall not be withdrawn by official duty or by definition or by the right to fine. If you enter the grounds for punishment from Article 50 and violations, as defined in Article 51, you see that there is a thin difference. Take, for example, what is punished by Article 50 of Article 26, it says – if it contracts a variable nominal interest rate contrary to Article 26 of the 26th century 1 - 3 of this law or does not comply with the agreed conditions. This is point 9) of Article 50(1). In Article 51, where you say it is a violation, you have a situation, point 21, - if it does not hold a prominent notice from Article 26(4) of this Act in its business premises. That's what a fine is prescribed for a 500,000 to three million dinar offense. And in article 50, you're talking about fines in a fixed amount of 500,000 dinars. Now watch the logic: if there is no emphasis, it can be punished by three million, and if it does not comply with the provisions of Article 26th century 1 - 3 in relation to the beneficiary of financial services, then it is not criminal proceedings but they simply bring a solution to punishment and the fine is 500,000 dinars. The consequences of non-compliance with Articles 26th century 1 - 3 are incomparably more difficult than the usual notice that should be highlighted in the rooms, as defined by Article 26(4). It doesn't make sense. Does this kind of punishment fall under some kind of questioning? Where's your second-degree procedure? Right to appeal, unimpeached right? Who's the complaint? You know, a 50th member jumps out of the legal-political system of the Republic of Serbia. If that were the authority of the inspection body, that would be a different situation, but you don't have an inspection here, you don't have an inspection authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55423	Three minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 50. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Financial Committee adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157... Excuse me, let's just listen to the Service intervention. I thank the Service of the National Assembly. In order to ensure the consistency of the work of the working bodies and the course of the session, I would like to inform you: Article 51 contains in paragraph 1 of points 2), 5), 25) and 27) of the proposal to change the word “written” in the word “written” except in point 25) and point 27. Since the amendment cannot be accepted in part without the proposing refusing to accept the amendment in general, in this Article 51, it will remain in the original, as the legislator had, therefore, the word "written" rather than "written". The government has submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. I have informed that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal, as well as an amendment submitted by MP Petar Jojic. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 54. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 54th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this law should have been passed the moment we started to feel the effects of the global economic crisis. A lot of things would be clearer and much less work would be for the People's Bank, our MPs, and for the banks themselves. I cannot agree with the governor in one part, that this law is exclusively written for the protection of the natural persons of the users of financial services, because the experience we have from these spaces is that as soon as one area is arranged, everything that is wrong is immediately crossed into an area that is not regulated, and that are connected to the users of financial services, regardless of whether they are natural persons, legal persons, entrepreneurs, or anyone else in our economic system. In order to justify my claim why it took much earlier to happen, I can only say that, for example, 2004, 2005, in 2006, there was an invasion of banks, which began to operate in these areas with the aim of placing as many credits as possible. It happened that banks also promised that attractive interest rates and that often those interest rates were one part and agreed, that there was even a situation when the financial service user began the procedure of closing the contract that on the very day of the completion of the agreement the interest rate was changed and said – this is now in line with the bank's business policy, because when you submitted the request was not like this. On the other hand, even if the user succeeded at the agreed interest rate to conclude the contract, it was after six or seven months that the bank changed its interest rate set out in the contract, without these fixed parts being mentioned and the variable parts mentioned in this law. So it wasn't a eurobor, it wasn't a libor, it wasn't a reference interest rate, it wasn't a rise in prices for a little bit. The excuse was – the bank's business policy. That could have been true by the start of the application of this law. However, we need to remove some consequences before we enter into the application of this law, so that this law can be applied in the way the National Bank has imagined. Many say that by applying this law, we will only protect the users of financial services. I can't disagree with that if this law is really applied properly. That's the primary consequence. Secondary is much more important. How did we get into such a difficult situation, both economic and economic, etc., not to mention? The problem of good work lies in the business banks themselves and what they have done over the past few years, which the National Bank has kept quiet for the past few years, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not to list everything else. You know, when citizens were cheated on with low interest rates at the beginning of the conclusion, they were taking these loans, it was coming from 2008 to a terrible jump in the euro, even the interest that was agreed on was changed, so we have a situation that whoever is the credit user could no longer serve credit or had to give up some ordinary human, civilizational benefits in his life. We had a situation that citizens had all their activities, revenue directed towards the repayments of loans that they had suddenly accumulated, and unwarrantedly, but I'll come back to that a little later. The result is a decline in economic activity, a lack of goods, only what needs to be paid (electricity, water, communals, taxes), and there is the end of the story. When you get into such a situation, there is a problem with the economy, which is now trying to overcome this lack of purchasing power of the population by raising credits. It is the same situation as with citizens – agreed interest at the time of the realisation of the loan is different from those when the contract is concluded. Again, we have a problem, the economy is no longer focusing its resources and revenues on opening new jobs, expanding employment, increasing business volumes, but on paying off loans. There is an important regulatory role of the National Bank, which was then to intervene on the financial market and thus protect the users of financial services and to keep banks to that extent, according to the rules that apply in the world, not just with us. How unjust was it and how many banks (not all but much of them) acted unfairly towards the citizens? With the start of the global economic crisis, the central banks' reference interest has been reduced, at least by the important ones: the European Central Bank is reducing from 4.5% to 1%, and I think Switzerland has reduced from 2.5% to 0.75% or 0.5%. All contracts which had as a variable eurobor, libor or domestic interest rate did not comply with the amounts of war that the citizens were to repay as loans, but the banks increased their margin to keep their income the same, although the capital price at which they are owed is far less than that at the time of the conclusion of the contract. Now we have a situation to pass one of these laws. It's okay. Now imagine the situation that some contract has been concluded, for example, in 2008 September of the month, just before the start of the global economic crisis with us, and it says in that contract that the interest rate is 5.5% plus euribor. No problem. It's a contract. At the end of December, the European Central Bank reduces the eurobor to 1%. Now it's no longer 5.5% plus euribor, now it's 9% plus euribor. You don't give up the bank's profits, even if it's cheaper being owed abroad. At this point, both the European Central Bank and other globally important banks, whose interest rates served our banks as the basis for borrowing, are increasing their reference interest rates. A month ago, the European Central Bank increased the eurobor to 1.25. It is expected to be around 2% by the end of this year. The next raise, I guess, is in July. In 2012, it is likely that it will operate on market rather than on forced value, as it is now, due to the coming out of their economy from the global economic crisis. So if we left this law like this, in this state, the interest would be in line with the moment that today applies. With the increase in the reference interest rates mentioned in the contracts, which are now at the lowest level, the amount of interest charged for the use of the credit would also be increased. That is why this amendment is written on Article 54. A technical error has been made. It is not disputed to correct this technical error, but our amendment should read as follows: In Article 54 following Article 2, new positions 3 and 4 are added, which read as follows: "The financial service providers are obliged to apply this law to contracts concluded by that day to apply the interest rates applicable at the time of the conclusion of the contract and not contrary to this law. Financial service providers shall not have the right to charge financial contract users a special fee to comply with the contract referred to in Article 2 or to seek ex post documentation for that purpose. “ The goal of this amendment is to prevent the abuse of banks, for those banks that have honestly acted on their future clients and given them a real interest rate will have nothing to coordinate. Those banks that were given lower to trick citizens into borrowing from them, and then under the pretext "coordination of that interest will take place according to the business policy of the bank" raise the amount of interest, of course they will suffer certain consequences, but for several years they have enjoyed the benefits of a substance that has not been regulated legally. I know that NBS can handle this under the law, but I think it's much better to be governed by the law, because then someone's gonna be hard to change and abuse. Government or National Bank regulations read only banks, and what the law reads by many others and many others is far more accessible. If the Proposer accepts this amendment, we will definitely immediately submit a technical amendment in order to remove the technical error in the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55425	Eight minutes and thirty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? The word has the governor of the National Bank Dejan Šoštic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55426	I hope you're familiar with the amendment of the Finance Committee. That's Amendment 5. The Finance Committee that we have accepted as a proposing. If you wish, I can read it to you: “Article 54 is amended and it reads: The provisions of Articles 8 and 26 of this Law will apply to all obligations under the contracts reached after the day of the application of that law. “ Item 2: “The financial service providers are obliged to implement, by day, contracts concluded by that day in accordance with the provisions of Articles 8 and 26 of that Law, in such a way that the height agreed by variables and indeterminate nominal interest rates, i.e. the variable indeterminate element of that rate cannot be higher than their initial height (height at the time of conclusion of the contract). “ Item 3: “For financial service providers from the date of entry into force of this law to the day of its application, they cannot increase the level of interest rates using the agreed indeterminate elements. “ Item 4: “The financial service providers do not have the right to charge the users of the contract a special fee for harmonising the contract in the manner provided for by Article 2, or to request subsequent documentation from them. “ I believe that this amendment of the Finance Committee has actually embedded the essence of your amendment, and I repeat that the proposaler, the National Bank of Serbia, accepted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55427	I find the governor has accepted the amendment of the Finance Committee to Article 54. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55428	That is exactly what I am saying, that the amendment of the Committee on Finance, which by procedure should be accepted by the Proposer to be valid for all of us, really includes all the arguments that my colleague Veroljub Arsic made. You really deserve me to say something very important on your behalf and in your defense right now, at the end of the debate. The way that the National Bank can affect inflation, that the revenues we receive are real, is something that you do to a large extent, but something you can't influence, and you don't even have the help of those who can influence. First, extortioned lending, no money, goods lending, where goods are given on delayed payments because monopolies and cartel structures condition suppliers and suppliers to give them goods they sure know won't be paid for 60 days, so they're installing pre-adjusted course growth, is similar to money emissions. You, as the National Bank, don't broadcast that money, and you're experiencing a calling call as if the money mass is increasing in payment traffic and, in some ways, inflation is increasing. No, it's not the People's Bank's fault. It's a lack of fight against cartel and monopoly structures, mostly retail. It is a lack of financial discipline in payment traffic, and it has been missed to fix and resolve when recently passed the law. That is, and this is a criticism appropriate to this moment, and a lack of adopted good solutions when talking about the Business Society Act. This is also a lack of goodwill, for example, to indicate at that memorandum of a company with which you enter into a business relationship which giro accounts have, or current accounts, which banks are led to. They explained it – with more banks, so it would burden that paper. They did not show when other laws were passed, which are significantly intertwined with your efforts, or the minimum will that you showed today by following the debate actively and correcting everything that can fix this law. Is that how we can solve the accumulated problems? We can, and you're a great start. This kind of approach to the law, where we solve problems, from language to essential, where it's said that we want to help citizens turn into a concrete act, really gives me hope that we can do something. But the National Bank itself neither creates inflation nor can heal it. The National Bank itself, without the help of all other factors, above all other elements of economic policy, cannot do much. How can we all make the help of those others more useful, I really don't know. We are equally approachable, workingly, reasonedly submitting amendments, like everyone else, but it seems that these arguments are not heard as well as they are today. I'm not someone who gets too excited, but I really have to commend one of these bits of consent. It can sound too much to someone, it can sound like a professional relationship to the National Bank, and mine is very personal. I want the National Bank to be the best institution and independent, but not independent of citizens' interests. You have shown that the interest of citizens and this institution can be appreciated. I guess someone will look up to you and respect our efforts. Thank you. I'll never answer my word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55429	Four minutes and fifteen seconds have been used since the deputy president of the parliamentary group. The 55th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This is the last amendment to the search in detail. Since no one's answering for a word, I'm asking the promoter if he might want to use, before the search is concluded, the right to receive the word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank all the MPs and active participants in the debate and applicants of the amendments, the governor of the National Bank of Dejan Šoštic and his associates. I'm sure we've done everything we can to make sure that the law on the protection of financial services users is good at the end. Thank you so much again. I'm setting a break. For the morning part, we interrupt work. We will continue at 15.30 hours of discussion in details of the fourth item of the agenda. We'll be working after 18 hours, until the search ends in the details of the point we open at 3:30. Thank you. [[After break – 15.30]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon. Before we go to the hearing on the calls for the session and the opening of the search in particular, and given that the fourth item of the agenda, which we are about to search in particular, is the point that was in the joint search, I would like to remind you of the time left for Members to search in particular for the fourth item of the agenda. All presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups have 15 minutes at their disposal, and parliamentary groups have the following time available: PUPS parliamentary group – total time of six minutes; minority parliamentary group – seven minutes; New Serbia's parliamentary group – 10 minutes; LDP parliamentary group – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; SPS – JS – 17 minutes; DSS – Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group – 11 minutes; Serbia's parliamentary group - 15 minutes and 35 seconds; the URS parliamentary group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – 30 minutes and the ZES parliamentary group – 87 minutes. Let me remind you of the authorized representatives. Of course MP groups can, whenever they wish, inform the chairman of who will represent them during the particulars search. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic is an authorised representative of the PUPS parliamentary group; MP Dejan Radenkovic is an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group – JS; MP Arsen Djuric is the authorised representative of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica; MP Dragan Stevanovic is the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group and MP Janko Veseinovic, the authorised representative of the ZES parliamentary group. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, in connection with the search in details of the 4th item of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the motionary Verica Kalanovic, Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Cirić, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, and Snezana Samardžić, Minister of Youth and Sports, invited the sittings to attend: Vesna Arsić and Branislav Zec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Popović, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Snezana Matić, Head of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Djordže Vukotic and Branko Radulović, from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Vida Zivković, Director of the Directorate for Merities and Precious Metals, Lucija Dujović, Assistant Director of the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON THE CONTROL OF THE SPECIFIC METALS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Nikola Savić, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladić, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Šormaz, Dragan Šormaz, Miroslav Markić, Srđan Spasović, Zlata Žerić, Mljena Grujić, Mjanović, Nena Živić, Miražović, Mirkodić, Mirjan, Mirjan Obžović, Mirnović, Mir, Mira Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mira Mira, Mir, Mira, Mir, Mir, Mira, Mira, Mira, Mir, Mir, Mir You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Science and Technological Development, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the control of objects of precious metal. In my amendment, I asked for a better and more precise way to define the concept of finerness. I believe that my definition makes it possible and, on the other hand, if we have in mind Article 7 of the existing law, which also refers to the definition of the concept of fines, then it can be concluded that my amendment establishes a better correlation between these terms and that that makes the law clearer. I must admit that the government has adopted a large number of amendments to the SRS, which is good. We had about eight amendments, of which more than half was adopted. What I'm trying to say is that this amendment, which I've submitted, is one of the amendments that should certainly have been accepted. I don't know why this amendment was rejected. Maybe the government was in charge of the fact -- well, we've adopted a large number of amendments to the SRS, they've had enough, let's say no now. This can also be seen from the arguments given by the Government to reject this amendment. It explains: "The amendment is rejected for the reason that the proposed amendment is identical or almost identical to the bill. "I still don't think so. From the very explanation, I conclude that the Government has in an indirect way admitted that this amendment should be accepted. I'm also saying this as a man who, by profession, is a graduate machine engineer, who is a matter that is very close here. I appeal to the government's present representatives to adopt this amendment, because it really improves the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55432	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has not submitted many amendments to this bill because there are conceptual differences between the SNS and the legislator. We have come from the fact that this economic activity, essentially, employs a very small number of workers, that the production of jewelry, mostly of precious metal, takes place in some crafts workshops, that we have a small number of small producers and that any initiative that involves increasing costs, means, more complicated procedure than we have so far, and this law introduces such institutes that will collect this production and, in fact, go to the shut-down and so modest production. If, in our opinion, we should have gone to a much more liberal concept, which would have possibly given us the opportunity to spread that branch, which would have been said to have created some new jobs, to speed up the development and growth of that branch. That was the reason for the concept of nature, because essentially, as far as we know, there are only two concepts in the world when it comes to this activity, when it comes to the quality of the product of precious metals. It's one concept the government has decided on. It's a concept where you prove that some jewelry is made of this precious metal, where you're directed to the directorate. And this second concept, which is much more liberal, where the manufacturer is expected to be responsible, and where some ex post control goes to the inspection service and allows significantly less costs when it comes to production, and through criminal law you can sanction any non-compliance of the law. In particular, in this amendment, we have defined ourselves, more profilingly, that this concept, which they have opted for, is going to be very harmful to jewelry producers than precious metals, that it is inevitable to move on to this second concept. Because basically we have a big problem in general, not only when it comes to this law, but when it comes to many people, because they make it very difficult for every economic activity, because they simply bureaucratize this kind of bureaucratic apparatus that we have and most often mean new separations and new economic costs. Since the start of the transition, we haven't been able to achieve real institutional reforms, and most often we go with some rigid laws, where institutions are in a passive and subordinate position and where it all comes down to you proving something to some institutions, and where our state apparatus stands on the side, waiting for it to approach them. It has a very often passive role, rather than actively involved in any kind of control. I would like to say that we consider the system of responsibility of the manufacturer to be a much better system for us, which at this point would allow for quite certain of this activity to disintegrate. We're sorry you didn't have a little more courage, but you've already gone to the difficulty of legislating, when it comes to the area of the production of precious metal jewelry and the quality of the product of precious metals at all. Basically, all these amendments follow this concept of responsibility and this is some idea that the SNS had when it proposed this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55434	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55435	Mr. Antichu, this is not a matter of courage. As you know, unlike some other ministers and on this law and on the subject of the Law on Economic Society, specifically this law, we have accepted 11 of the 35 amendments, so absolutely, you know my position and my opinion, any amendment that is meaningful will be accepted, regardless of whether it is proposed by an MP from the ranks of opposition or position. As far as this particular amendment is concerned, you have suggested that Article 3 paragraph 1 point 6 is amended and that instead of the national stamp, we have a mark of responsibility. In our opinion, it's not meaningful. I'm the first to advocate reducing bureaucracy, procedures, paperwork, and here I agree with you that wherever we can intervene in that direction. However, the point here is that when you have a stamp, in point 16 you have a manufacturer’s mark, or point 17) of the importer’s sign. That when she comes to the Directorate, she sees if that finesse she writes, checks the manufacturer or importer and then only at the end, on behalf of the state as a control body, puts a state stamp that confirms that it is the same and then the final user or customer, however, knows that what it says is exactly the same. For this reason, we did not accept this amendment, because we believe that there should be a certain control authority and that there must be a separate sign of the importer, or producer, as the first step towards the national stamp, which is the final, control or control body, so that the end-user knows that certain precious metals per fine are in conformity with the regulations. For that reason, I did not accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55436	The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55437	We totally agree. This amendment does not fit your concept where the complete control of all objects is made of precious metal. What was the objective of our amendment, to promote this second approach that would give us a much greater freedom of entrepreneurship in Serbia and possibly enable this action, as I said earlier, to spread, to potentially reduce and cost, as you will admit, this brand of importers will cost additionally, will mean that this procedure will be more expensive. We have very few producers. To support the Directorate and be directly referred to the Directorate, all of this involves some expenses. We had a good part of that procedure in the previous law, so what's increasing the procedure is what bothered us, and it's perfectly understandable that these are two opposite concepts and of course you couldn't respect this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55438	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojen Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Mrs. Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55439	I only wanted to speak to the minister briefly, since our amendment was adopted. The minister said one of the statistics that has very imploded us as a parliamentary group, which has been working very actively on all the laws since the beginning of this call, very responsibly and I think we belong to the group of the most adopted amendments, which shows a serious approach. I would like to thank you immediately for having the understanding of our amendments, because of the 11 amendments adopted, six amendments have been amendments of the New Serbia parliamentary group. So much for our work. I just want to thank you for the understanding you've shown for our amendments, no matter what they come from the opposition parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55440	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojen Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted the 5th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55441	We may be too favored about the adoption of the amendments, but we really feel that we have done so responsibly. I think this amendment could have been adopted, given that we have proposed that Article 6(6) changes and reads as follows: "The Minister of Economy and Regional Development is responsible for precious metals (hereinafter referred to as Minister), following the attached opinion of the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, is closer to the technical and other requirements laid down in Article 5. "That was our proposal. The amendment was rejected, but given how adopted it was, we think it could have been this one.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55442	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55443	Let me just answer that. Original, let me just read to you how our proposal is for article 6. He says – Minister responsible for precious metals (hereinafter referred to as Minister) is closer to prescribing the technical and other requirements of Article 5. In formulating the opinion of the Ministry of Economy, i.e. Minister, as I say, the Directorate is taking part, preparing a professional basis, etc. For this reason, we have not accepted your amendment, because in any case, specifically me or any other economy minister in the future when giving his opinion, he has to obtain an opinion in some way, in terms of the internal opinion of the Directorate. So it would be too high to ask for a special opinion of the Directorate now, when the Directorate is involved in making the decision anyway. For this reason, we have not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55444	The word has master Goran Mihajlovic, so Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55445	On this occasion, I will in some way relate to what my esteemed colleague Nikola Savic has already said. On the proposal for a law on the control of objects of precious metals, the SRS has submitted eight amendments and of these eight amendments, the structure is different, the three amendments are of technical nature, the three refer to the time limits given by the promoter and the two are of general nature. Of those eight, five amendments were accepted. We must, on that side, express our satisfaction and hope that it will also be a future practice, that the amendments of the opposition will also be adopted in this assembly. As for the reason why we will explain the amendments that have been accepted, and on the day of the debate in principle, three laws were united -- the proposal for a law on companies, the draft law on contractual financial restructuring of companies and this proposal for a law on the control of objects of precious metals. Whoever followed closely could see that 80%-90% of the time was spent on the first two laws in that principle debate, and that this third one remained, in some way, unspeakable. That is why today we will explain those amendments that have been adopted and which are not. In particular, the amendment to Article 6 which I have submitted refers to a technical amendment. In Article 6, the promoter pointed out in his first view that the most precious metal is platinum. So platinum is the most precious but precious metal. I suggested that the word "noble" be inserted into this sentence, so that this attitude would make full sense. I'll remind you that something of the most precious, depends on which area it's being watched in. For example, for an electrician, the most precious metal is copper because it is used to make conductors, for light structures is the most precious aluminum because it is technically the easiest and cheapest in terms of competitive metals, so in nuclear technology it is the most precious plutonium, etc. So, for that reason, I suggested that the word "noble" be inserted into this position so that the attitude would take its full meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55446	The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55447	Let me just say for a moment that, in the face of an argument to reject our amendment, it is quite acceptable what the minister said and we are satisfied with that argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55448	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55449	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that the concept proposed by the Government and the concept for which the DSS, presented in its amendments, is very different. We don't think there's really room for this much red tape of state, that there's no room for this much centralism. In particular, there is no place for ministers to be given full authority which we are absolutely certain they can do and to be fully well done by other bodies and entities. In particular, in Article 8(4), you proposed that the minister prescribes the content, form and dimensions of the producer’s, importer’s, or representative’s and the finest mark, the manner in which the items are marked, the equipment and the appearance of the working rooms which must be owned by the manufacturers, as well as the content and form of the requirements for obtaining the manufacturer’s mark. We find it unnecessary for a minister to do things like this. We've suggested that it be the Directorate and we don't think it would be wrong for another body to do it, especially because you're already introducing new bodies here that, in practice, have the same jurisdiction as the Noble Metals Directorate. We think it would be a good idea if you took a look at some of that jurisdiction that you gave to the minister in this law. For example, in Article 29, you say the minister can recognise the validity of foreign stamps on cases if they are issued under conditions that ensure compliance with the requirements prescribed in the Republic of Serbia for these items. So, discretionary law and the will of the minister. In point 3, you say the minister is closer to providing for a way of recognising the foreign stamps set out in Article 2. So in this law, which is not great, you have at least one 30 powers of the minister. It's a little excessive. On the other hand, when you're talking about control, you're talking about how stamps are going to be applied, do you think someone who imported Cartier's jewelry, where there's a brand of a manufacturer who's very esteemed in the world and has a reputation, do you really think it's necessary for you to intervene further now, control that jewelry and bring your brand into that jewelry? The manufacturer, or Cartier, of course does not allow that kind of influence. On the other hand, for the user, the end-user, and that's the buyer, and how much more important it is to stand for Cartier's mark than to stand for the brand of a body you're now introducing by this law, which we don't even know who it will be, probably someone from party circles who's supposed to get a certain job. Do you think the costs of the importer are small or large because the state receives from each imported piece of jewelry 42% of the value? They're not negligible at all. On the other hand, this law doesn't simplify the procedure at all, even though you're advocating it, this does not simplify the procedure. That, in fact, shows the citizens of Serbia that you do one thing, that you speak the other. I'll give you another 50 examples, if you want to listen to them, where you show them, in fact, that same arrogance and that I'm talking to one another, and I'm doing the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55450	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55451	Let me just try to answer a few questions for you. First of all, your amendment is not possible because the State Administration Act explicitly states that the administration body within the ministry cannot lay down regulations. It's, I'm telling you, a difolt job done by the Ministry, or acts signed by the minister. In any event, everything related to this area of decision-making and certain regulations shall take part and participate in the Directorate. It's number one thing. Thing number two, as far as additional bureaucracy is concerned, I can't agree with you for the simple reason that this law provides that, from the moment of adoption of this law, we will have authorized economic operators to deal with special examination and stamping of precious metals. So if I can put it that way, we're not going to have a monopoly of the Directorate, we're going to be able to do that by other economic operators who qualify for it and get permission. So I don't see that it's bureaucracy, it's now in the private sector to say, yes, we have an interest in doing or not. After all, the authorised economic operators I mentioned may, in some ways, interpret, also have the ability to control some decisions of the Directorate. The third thing you mentioned, to take advantage of your example, is a stamp on Cartier's jewelry or Cartier's watch. This law has changed what happened in the past, which is that when you're an importer or a producer of Cartier's watch or jewelry, we've eliminated the need to place an additional state stamp on Cartier's brand, as you said, which is known around the world. Our job is to determine that this brand of Cartier is original or it's a fake. That's number one. Number two, if a certain piece of jewelry or watch is, whatever, a valuable item, if it is a card clock, the importer must present adequate documentation, certificates. Then we don't beat up, in accordance with this law, when I say, peoratively, the state, we give a certain kind of certification, or a belief of confirming the degree of finesse of the subject. We did this at the request of the manufacturer and the importer, so there's no physical stamping. We're not going to put a state stamp through a card stamp or any other brand. This was just done to meet both manufacturers and importers, and domestic and foreign companies, who had objections to exactly what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55452	Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55453	If I understand you correctly, new economic operators who will have the authority to control and authorized bodies who will also have an interest in applying to control, of course, one and the same, but it's a number. So we will no longer have one place – the Directorate, who will do this job and you all know who should do it, but every producer, importer or other will walk from authorized bodies and entities who think they want to do the job. Don't you think that's very complicated, and don't you think there's a lot of them?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55454	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55455	I don't know if there's gonna be a lot of them, a little. What we have predicted is that, after this law, sublaws will be specified which conditions must be met by interested economic operators in order to have the opportunity to deal with interrogations and stamps. Whether it's going to be one company, or one economic entity or not I don't really know anymore, but this is, let me tell you, the possibility of a private initiative, or a private sector that has knowledge, the ability to deal with this, means that we don't have only one state body. This is a practice in all developed countries where you have the possibility that, in the end, if necessary, you do not only have the Directorate, but you have some other opinion, or you have the opportunity to get a second opinion with someone else, in this case a business subject. That was an emergency. Whether there's gonna be a few or a lot of them I don't really know. It depends on how much economic operators will be interested in participating in this process.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55456	Mrs. Vojić Markovic, again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55457	You forgot, Minister, only one thing to point out. When you talked about all the elements needed to qualify for this authorized body, among other things, is that it has a party book, it seems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55458	This is hardly an answer. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mr. Babic Zoran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55459	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, draft law on the control of precious metal items, according to the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia-SNS, just as my colleague, Mr. Zoran Antic, has pointed out, will not create a favourable market environment for the transport of products that have precious metals in their composition. We also believe that in this way you do not allow free and fast flow of goods and fair competition on the domestic market. In principle, the bill maintains a system of bureaucratic and technological constraints, asphyxiates domestic production and collects both domestic and import and foreign products. The legislator also retained a principled approach that envisions a prior control regime and a marking of all items containing precious metals prior to their entry into the market. Instead of simplifying, the proposal for a law on the control of traffic from precious metals provides for the introduction of new stamps, it seems to me that it is a brand of importers and even more complex procedures, without respecting even the minimum interest of entrepreneurs that produce or imports of brimstones that have precious metals in their composition. One of these technocrats and also bureaucratic restrictions is the limitation of the time on which the sign of the manufacturer of the items of precious metals is issued, just as you have provided for in Article 9(2), which we have been asking for by amendment. In the opinion of the SNS, once the manufacturer has issued a sign, it should apply unlimitedly because this bill already defines cases where a solution to determine the manufacturer's character can be abolished at any time when irregularities are identified without waiting for this period of ten years, as you have provided for by the bill. Except that at all times the establishment of an irregularity of the Noble Metals Directorate can lift the manufacturer's mark, it can also, on the basis of this proposal of the law, under Articles 33 to 38. The bill can and should monitor the maintenance of the prescribed conditions with the manufacturer. Since the Directorate, and thus the competent ministry, has the right to and control and control and to abolish the solution, I believe that the periodic extension of the manufacturer's character is a non-discriminatory solution at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55460	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55461	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. So our amendment refers to Article 9 and practically refers to two positions, so the same amendment. It's about deadlines both in one attitude and in another, so some changes. Otherwise, the member speaks of the Directorate's decision to determine the mark of the manufacturer of the items from precious metals. So, there's the procedure now more detailedly worked out. However, in point 6 of the proposal, the applicant says – if the Directorate does not decide on the application, therefore, to obtain a decision on the manufacturer's sign, within 60 days of the date of submission of the request from this member, and no later than the date of expiry of the period for which the decision has been issued, the manufacturer may use the manufacturer's mark based on the existing solution. What are we against in this article? We first suggest that this 60 days be changed in 30 days. It's just that we can't believe that this directorate would have so much work or have so much work to do that it can't meet its obligation within 30 days. So we think that this 60-day deadline is pretty comfortable and there's no reason for such a long time. That's the first thing we resent. What else do you say in this attitude? You're saying that the manufacturer can continue to use the sign that he previously received the solution, until the Directorate has fulfilled this obligation. That's very comfortable. So, the Directorate can do it within 60 days, but it doesn't have to, and the manufacturer, you explain it to our amendment, it doesn't compromise because he can continue to use the sign that he got from the old solution. Then a man just wonders. You are not here for yourself, or the Directorate, to provide for some sanctions unless he fulfils his obligation in 60 days. So the manufacturer will continue as if nothing happened. So there are two things that send a bad message. The second part of the amendment refers to the following position and refers to the manufacturer of precious metal items, that it is obliged to notify the Directorate of any changes in business or headquarters or any changes in its organisational units, as well as to the suspension of business within 30 days. So it's practically an obligation here to keep the Directorate informed about these technical matters. You've left a very long deadline again, 30 days. So if the manufacturer changes its seat, for example, why leave a 30-day deadline to notify the Directorate? We're in the amendment, and that's where we suggested you cut this down to 15 for 30 days. Two weeks is quite enough for the Directorate to be informed about these technical matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55462	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55463	I don't want to get involved, of course, this is your right, you should have actually given in two amendments, and you've given two amendments through one amendment. First, about the second part to cut from 30 to 15, that part I can accept. Make a correction and I'll accept that amendment. Sounds logical to me. Maybe it's better in 15 than in 30 days, as we originally predicted. I'll tell you why we don't accept the first part of your amendment, which I understand as a separate amendment. We have tried here to install something that we all advocate, which is to introduce the responsibility of the state administration, in this case the Directorate, and that the silence of the administration does not go to the harm of the economic operators, in this case the manufacturer, but to their benefit. So, two things. We took 60 days because of that deadline mentioned in the Law on General Administrative Procedure and said, those 60 days you use what you now have, and if by the 60th day you do not get any response from the Directorate, you are deemed to have obtained consent. That's what we all advocate for other parts of the state administration. That's why I can't accept this part of the amendment. But down from 30 to 15, if you do the correction, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55464	Mrs. Banovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55465	We'll make the correction, then we'll share. I've got an explanation that's now different from what you said, or that's understood. Imagine that some manufacturer has a solution to use a certain kind of sign for ten years, after those ten years, he has another idea solution, he wants to change that sign and he's asking you again, of course, now another solution, and you've now told me that he can, thanks to some famous silence of the administration, I'd rather not have that kind of concept in our heads at all, that the administration can keep quiet, so if she can feel it, then we can consider it to be something positive for the user. This is how you explained to me that, because of the silence of this administration as a producer, I could then start using that new sign because you were silent for two months. So it can be done if it's a matter of continuing to use the same sign, but I would really like us to try to stop using what's called the silence of the administration. We're talking about it under this law, but our citizens and the silence of the administration, I think we're the only ones who have that concept.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55466	The word is from the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55467	I wanted to get involved in the debate on this amendment to draw attention that Mr. Minister obviously doesn't know the General Administrative Procedure Act and what you said, Minister, about the silence of the administration is simply not true. If the competent national authority does not do what it does or does not resolve at the request of anyone, I am now speaking at all and relying on the General Administrative Procedure Act which you have just completely misread, if the competent state authority or local self-government authority does not resolve within a specified time limit, then the party in the procedure has the possibility to conduct an administrative dispute. Only after the administrative dispute has been completed can it be said whether it has been resolved positively or negatively at the request. So, the lawyers in your ministry have not taught you well, and if you really want it to be so, I don't know what's funny to you, Mr. Minister, but if you really want the administration's silence to be applied in this way, then the law must say that, if it doesn't get solved within 30, 60, 90, 120, as many days as you want, if no solution is reached within that time period, then it is understood that the application has been accepted or that the request has been rejected. You have to say it that way, specifically, not call on something that's simply not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55468	Parliamentarians Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic together submitted the 9th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarians Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted together to the 10th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The Government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The peoples of the Parliaments Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted together to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55469	I must point out that all the laws on the Committee on Science and Technological Development have been discussed quite professionally, so I must say that this law has been discussed quite professionally and that we have been looking for original, adequate solutions, i.e. by writing my amendment, I wanted to improve this law. You have accepted this amendment, but the purpose of this law is actually to divide or to reach a division in the phase of testing and the phase of stamping of metals and their alloys, which are actually foreseen by this law. It is one goal that says that here, as well as any application for implementation that is made in this building, it is not actually applied on the executive body of your ministries and across other ministries. That's one problem we're talking about, corruption, crime, and that's what this law wanted to stop. We actually talk about it all the time, but there's no stopping that corruption and that crime. This is especially true of precious metals, because you well know that there is great crime and that especially when importing or exporting these things can be applied, that is, there is a lot of things going on. I believe that this law is what you really wanted, or I suppose you wanted, to prevent it, in fact, but let's not just stay here and let the letter be written on paper, and there's not a lot of other laws being passed in this building. Perhaps you see it allergicly sometimes, because you look at when the opposition acts, or when the opposition asks you to realize these stories that we hear every day from the mouth of certain ministers, and normally from the Prime Minister and the president of the state, what is the fight against corruption and crime, and in awe it's the same as when the United States took away Bin Laden, and later and eventually managed to liquidate him. Unfortunately, I am, however, afraid, as you have so far proven, that despite the alignment or approval of the new laws, this greatest serious disease that has been in power for the past ten years, which has hit this Serbia, it is crime and corruption, which has entered into every pores of life from the lowest to the highest, it reigns today. Believe me, and I will end it if every ministry works for this country for an hour and if every pore ceases to be a crime and corruption, within a year for sure that the IMF shouldn't, surely, be able to recover the economy, but unfortunately it can't be under your authority, only this can be done under the authority of the SRS and Professors of Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55470	The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55471	Very short. The amendment is in fact contained in mostly three previous amendments, so it is quite logical if that amendment is not accepted so that this amendment is not accepted. Just so it doesn't stay this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55472	Thank you, Mr Antic. Both MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 17th amendment in the same text. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic, so Mr. Babic
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55473	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with what we thought was our concept we further intervened in this law. In Article 17, you wrote in the first sentence: "The examination, or stamping of the case, is carried out by the Directorate". Item 2, which we intervene on, reads as follows: "The interrogation and stamping can also perform an authorized face. "However, it is a little complicated to explain to us how the manufacturer will decide which authorised person to examine the composition of his product and how, but good about it afterwards. They'll write a sublegal act, and we'll see what happens next. In the first place, you gave clear jurisdiction to the Directorate. In the second position of that same jurisdiction you have now passed on to authorized bodies, which you yourself said you do not know whether there will be few or many, but let's talk about that bodies, so the plural is. By doing so, authorized persons will take one piece of jurisdiction, one part of the job, to be very precise, the Directorate. Will that reduce the number of employees in the Directorate and how many employees do you have in the Directorate now? On the other hand, you were talking about the term silence of the administration, although I'd be completely inclined to say that we're not talking about silence here anymore, it's sleep administration. According to the DSS concept, the administration must make an announcement at any request of a economic operator or a citizen. He can't keep his mouth shut because silence isn't always approval. Sometimes she shuts up, you say, because whoever turned to the administration is right, so her silence should be interpreted by those of us who spoke to her, whether it's positive or negative silence. He can't keep his mouth shut. The administration has to do its job. You said you were transferring some of the department's jurisdiction to some new authorized bodies. There are enough people who have to answer to the citizens. The concept of the country, in which the administration is numerous and multiplying, must be changed. You haven't reconstructed the government. You repacked the government. You didn't fire anyone. No cuts. There are only repacks in the new ministries. Simply, the example works, for what I say you can freely say that you must have reduced the number of employees in your ministry when you got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55474	Thank you. First Minister
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55475	Just for clarification, 120 employees are currently working in the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals. For all of Serbia, there are 38 kinds of criteria prescribed by law, not to say, not to control the Directorate. In the Department of Precious Metals, which is tangled by this law, works eight employees, for all of Serbia, so that no one will be left without a job, on the one hand, and the question is how many of these eight people can do. I don't see, really, anything controversial about us in accordance with the procedure empowering certain economic operators that they can do the same. Nothing will have a negative impact on the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, or specifically these eight employees who work in the Department of Precious Metals for the entire Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55476	Mr. Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55477	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and Mr. Minister, the law on the control of precious metal objects in this way introduces the possibility of a new activity. This activity is the control of the conformity of the product with the prescribed requirements, and in the future, as you said, besides the State Directorate, other legal persons who receive the powers of the Noble Metals Directorate will also be able to carry out. Apparently, it's a good idea, because it involves establishing new private labs. These laboratories will employ new workers, earn profits and disburse existing state apparatus. However, in the opinion of the SNS parliamentary group, the real economic consequences of this bill are in fact completely different. In this way, the existing production that has been reduced to small businesses and businesses in Serbia will, in fact, increase the cost of production itself, because this domestically weak jewelry production, in addition to the allocation for the existing bureaucratic apparatus controllers, will have to allocate part of its assets, i.e. part of the revenues for private lab services. If this private business, or compliance control, were to create a new product, new values on this basis and increase employment, this would have a truly positive economic effect. However, these do not reduce budgetary interventions in the economy, but transfer powers of state control to private businesses. I believe that this is the real background of this bill, because you will, in this way, give the laboratories that are authorised to work through the Noble Metals Directorate the opportunity to raise funds that are otherwise the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget and therefore I will not invite you to accept this amendment to SNS and delete Article 17(2), because then, according to the philosophy of the bill's draftr, I lost the meaning of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55478	The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. The Government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 19th amendment. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55479	Mr. Vice President, we in Article 19 of Section 1 predicted that after the word "directory" the point should be placed and the rest deleted. So why did we suggest it? If the promoter has already formed a Directorate with clearly prescribed competences, then there is no point in having some other bodies to do the same work with the same competences. The reason for the formation of these bodies is in one part of the text of the law, which is called impact analysis, and in this attitude 5, a very interesting one sentence, the last sentence, so it says – will create preconditions to regulate the purchase of precious metals from citizens. You see, Mr. Minister, whether these conditions existed before or not, or if there was something else. It's simply going to be a rush for citizens to sell gold items, so the Directorate won't be able to achieve it, but there will have to be some more bodies. We have reason to doubt this story, because this people are very exposed, welded. Let me tell you, you promised 1,000 euros of free action, you promised free jobs, and the effect is visible to those promises. Since there is no more money, the people will need their valuables, family jewels, to sell into impunity in order to survive the work of such a responsible social government. That's why it takes these bodies that will have the authority to deal with the ransom, and that's actually the analysis of the effects, an analysis of the effects that the people will have to sell their valuables to survive this period of your government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55480	The word is from the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55481	Three amendments have been tabled to Article 19 of the proposal for this law, which certainly speaks about the quality of the proposed member. One of the amendments was submitted by our colleague, Serbian Radical, Dejan Mirovic, and the amendment was accepted. We do not mean that you accepted the amendments to respect what the MPs of the SRS say, but that you understood what a ridiculous provision in this position of Article 19. And these two amendments that other colleagues submitted were to be adopted. I answered because, since you have wrongly referred again to the Universal Procedure Act as simply as someone who has been applying the General Administrative Procedure Act for 17 years, I cannot keep this in mind. When I mentioned our colleague Dejan Mirovic's amendment, it is important to say that this article 19 refers to items of precious metal being questioned and stamped in official premises, or authorized persons. Of course, we think that these authorized faces are always something that implies self-will, abuse, etc. And you didn't need this. It would have been enough to do that in the department. But, well, that's your concept and so be it. The SRS thinks it's bad, but you're going to vote, you're going to apply, you're going to abuse, or your associates. Because whenever something like this is written in general, you should know from past experience, and not just your ministry, but you can go back as far as you want, that it's always the subject of abuse or at least it can be the subject of abuse. So you're saying that what you're proposing for these working rooms is a 10-year-old solution. These working rooms, of course, must also have certain equipment. Imagine how much technology can advance in 10 years? How much can a room be destroyed, abandoned over a period of 10 years? That is why you have accepted the SRS amendment to be a five-year deadline and we always need to say, first of all, that when the SRS amendment is adopted, we need to say why the amendment is accepted, that is, what the SRS has proposed and how you are actually corrected by the text of the law. I have also noted, and what you have said about the amendment, where it is provided for in Article 5, that a complaint may be made against the solution of the previous position by the Minister. You have not set a time limit within which the appeal is lodged, and then, in your explanation, you say it is normal and that such an amendment should not be accepted because the General Administrative Procedure Act stipulates that a solution adopted in the first instance of the party has the right to appeal and therefore is not acceptable to a solution allowing only one type of solution or a solution which determines the non-fulfilment of the prescribed conditions. I ask you, Mr. Kiric, and you ask your associates – what time is the appeal here? You are referring to the General Administrative Procedure Act. Do you know that the General Administrative Procedure Act knows different deadlines? There is not just one deadline for appeal in the General Administrative Procedure Act. It's impossible for you to call this rudely upon the General Administrative Procedure Act. I have an impression, but for the second time in this debate and reading this explanation of yours, this only sounds like you've heard somewhere in your life that there's a law on general administrative procedure and then you've called upon it. Therefore, you must make sure that in this particular case the General Administrative Procedure Act has several deadlines for appeals and that it is necessary to write in this proposal what time-limit it is. Since you have not accepted the amendment, I ask you to respond to the MPs and the public when the party will not be late with the appeal, if it is submitted any day from the day of the settlement?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55482	The word is Mr. Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55483	I will refer to the mentioned article 19, the amendment of counterpart Dejan Mirovic. Mrs. Radeta gave an extremely detailed explanation and reasoning on the legal side, and I'll add it a little bit from the technical point of view. The traffic of precious metal objects clearly shows one phase stream and one of the main phases would be the stamping and marking of objects, which is, in addition, prescribed by Article 19. In point 4 of the proposal, the applicant stated that the solution issued by the Directorate has a period of importance of 10 years. But we are all witnessing that we are living in a troubled time in which, especially in science and technology, the methods and techniques of testing are rapidly changing, so the same is true in the area of precious metals. So, in 10 years, that equipment could go out of date relatively quickly and the data wouldn't be valid. counterpart Mirovic had all this in mind and suggested that the period of importance of the solution be reduced from 10 to five years and it is certain that it is good that the government has accepted this amendment, as well as the Committee on Science. Because the amendment is completely logical and meaningful and has a complete justification.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55484	Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 25th amendment. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55485	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to defend the amendments we wrote, because obviously we have a problem with different concepts, you and I. But we want to talk to the citizens, first of all. We understand why you did not accept our amendments. Our amendments are written because we believe that the state must finally start saving. We're a poor country and we can't waste ourselves. You can say that eight people in the Directorate who do this job can do something else, but it costs citizens, and they would love to know where they used their resources, where they went from the funds of the Serbian citizens, what jobs these people have done, etc., like each of us and you, Mr. Minister, have the right to ask how we spend our time here they pay us. That's why we think it's very important for the Directorate to really do its job and there's no room for authorized bodies. There's no room because we think those eight people, as you say, are worth a lot to this country and if they've been doing that job so far, and how they can still do it. We have multiplied our administration and introduced so many directorates and agencies and everything else, mixed competences, all have the same powers, all receive from the budget funds for personal incomes, and that is how much. I must remind you that we are a highly-indebted country. Because our duty is more than 45% of gross social product. That's not what I'm saying, which may be laik for this, but say very prominent economists, who and how they know they're counting and who warn us that Serbia's public debt in April was 12.95 billion euros, and that only four months later, the reconstructed government managed to increase it by 792m euros. We need to understand that we need to use the resources we have. It sounds very nice to have an independent body, authorized bodies, economic operators, like this or something, but we have to realize that we have resources and we have to use those resources 100%. If the minister presents to us the law in which he says - we have a resource, it's very good, he's doing a job, and I also think that people have been doing their job quality and I have nothing against it, I just want to say that we have to hire them still 100%. I'd like to make one parallel, so that citizens can find some parameters just as much as the state, based on the interest on the debts it has today, can and should be singled out, and what can be made of it. Only in the name of interest on debts do we have to set aside 46 billion dinars. That's 14 billion more than the amount that, for example, will be allocated from the budget for capital expenditure. Whether Serbia needs capital expenditure or not, the minister should say. Interest expenditure Serbia could use, for example, to open 16 kindergartens or nine health homes every month. Now, you tell me, Minister, should we be saving or not saving, should we use the resources we have or should we give them to other people to use?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55486	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The word is Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55487	In line with the previous amendments and discussions, where you predict that, in addition to the Directorate, research operations of valuable metals and stamping are performed and some, you have called them here, authorized bodies, are likely to be some private laboratories, you explain to us that your wish was to separate the interrogation from the surveillance, because so far the Directorate was both the supervisory authority and these eight people you spoke of in the Department, that they were conducting the interrogations and that it could be understood as some kind of conflict of interest. You do the interrogations, but you later do the surveillance. However, I did not realize that now these eight people or that the Directorate will not be involved in the investigation, that there will remain this double role, that these eight people who are working in the Department for the Examining of Precious Metals will continue to remain in that function, with them perhaps having a little more time to monitor. To say that there are only eight people working in that sector, it's not some number, but that doesn't mean anything to us without information about it, for example. how much they had to do and how many of these studies, let's say, in 2010, what their employment was, and if they really can't make this all work. We open now, it's not bad sometimes, but it's not bad if you live in a country where the economic situation is different, so you're going to say, "Yeah, you have a choice, you don't have to carry out this interrogation in our directorship, but you can do it somewhere else, but not in this situation." These proposals will not go to the benefit of manufacturers and users. It's the fourth chapter in the explanation, where the impact analysis is. You state, among other things, that this law will ensure that domestic standards and technical regulations are harmonised with the side, I assume that there is now a noun of "the regulations" that you have thought of, and thus the conditions for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the Convention on the Control and Marking of objects of precious metals will be met. It is perfectly understandable for me that the Republic of Serbia wants to sign it, perhaps it is signed, without being ratified and that it is a missing law. In recent years in this assembly, when a bill enters, then we have an analysis of the effects, compliance with EU regulations, you have stressed here that this law is not on that agenda of EU accession, so you have surprised us pleasantly, but you have explained that this is a co-ordination with the foreign one. What does "foreign" mean? You could've explained it a little bit more.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55488	This time is scheduled for the DSS parliamentary group to be exhausted. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55489	Let me try to illustrate, through a particular number, answer the question. These eight employees, working in the precious metal department, yearly processing about two million items. You estimate, but I think that's a lot for those eight people. Two, so far we haven't had a separate function of testing and stamping and surveillance. Now in the Directorate, an employee of interrogation and stamping will not be able to handle surveillance. This country intends to sign the Convention on the Control and Marking of Objects of Precious Metals. In order to sign that convention, or approach, we must have this law. What's even more important is that the moment we sign this convention, we automatically recognise the stamps of other states that are signatories to these conventions. Then, too, in the case of imports of certain items, it saves both time and money. In any case, this Convention on Control and Marking is our strategic goal in this area and it brings a lot of benefits to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55490	Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55491	I don't know if I got you all right. So, in the future, the Directorate won't be involved in questioning and stamping the case? This is in the explanation for the amendment to Article 17. You say, "According to the provisions of the existing law, the Directorate for Measures and Expensive Metals performs the task of examining and stamping the case and at the same time overseeing it." I realize there's a department in the Directorate that deals exclusively with interrogation and stamping? No, I don't. Who's been watching? In the future, the Directorate will only conduct surveillance, so you tell me, and it won't be an interrogation, and all the tests and stamping will be carried out by authorized bodies, and the Directorate will be just a supervisory authority. Does this mean that these eight, who have conducted two million interrogations, are either out of work or are they going to the supervisors, and they're not going to do research in the labs?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55492	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55493	I'll try to be as clear as I can. So far, these eight, of the 120 employees of the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, have been engaged in and examined, both by stamping and by function of supervision. In our opinion, it was a conflict of interest and that's why we separated. After the adoption of this law and sublegal acts, the Directorate will continue to deal with and investigate and stamping and surveillance, only that these two, I say groups of activities, will be separated. People who do interrogations and stamps won't be able to handle surveillance and vice versa. Whether it's going to be eight, so four will work in one, four in the other part, I really don't know, it's irrelevant for this discussion, but it's essential that the same people won't be able to do both the interrogation and the stamping, and that they monitor themselves, or control themselves. That was the case so far, which is why we said there was a conflict of interest. Whether it's going to be two sections, two departments, it's a technical matter, and we essentially took these functions apart. Two million items are processed annually.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55494	Thank you. It's 685 items a day, provided it works every day from January 1st to December 31st. (Donka Banovic, from the place: Replica. You don't have any more time. I think this is a technical explanation. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55495	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the story of two different concepts. We're about what you call a conflict of interest, which actually doesn't exist when it comes to the directorate, because people have done their job quite correctly and there was no conflict. On the contrary, by conflict you want to justify something you're trying to do. It's these authorized bodies and things like that. In Article 27, which we have proposed to delete, you say in point 1, the authorised body which ceases to meet the prescribed conditions is required to notify the Ministry without delay, as well as any changes which could affect the fulfilment of the prescribed conditions. Then we have your famous line - and the silence of the administration. Not to say here how much you've given again in your third jurisdiction to the Minister and so on. You said you had two million items to solve these eight people over the year, but multiply those two million items by the amount the parties had to pay to do that service. It's budget funds. You forgot, Mr. Minister, that you are minimal for those two million times the funds paid damaged Serbia's budget. So the concept you're talking about can happen to you that it has some advantages, although indeed the DSS MPs don't see them. We're just trying to figure out what's good for the state. At this point, the benefit for the state is two million items, it may be less or less, but at this point you said that number, so I stick to that number through the funds that have been paid into Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55496	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55497	I'll use this time here, since you said I didn't have the right to a replica. It was only in the last explanation of the minister that it was clear to me why I didn't understand this kind of separation, and I completely understand why I didn't understand why, because you're saying that if you're in charge of four persons in the same house to conduct interrogations and four to monitor the conflict problem, it's a conflict problem. You're talking about a directorship that retains the same functions again. I think of it as one body. The only effective surveillance, you point out and talk about preventing conflicts of interest, would be that someone does it outside the directorate. That's why I couldn't figure it out. You think that the fact that people, their functions and their job description, are going to be different, regardless of what they're all from the same house, or directorship, you think that's how you're going to solve the conflict. I'm just interpreting what you wrote to us in an explanation, but now I understand why I couldn't understand, because it's just illogical.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55498	National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. The word has the first Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic, so Mr. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55499	This is practically one of the last amendments, the last of which we have submitted, consistent with the context we offer. I would like to warn you, Mr. Minister, that what you are trying to do and what you are going to do, because you have a sufficient number of MPs to vote and, on the other hand, you have amendments that you have not accepted, which went in favour of the state budget, is not good for the state of Serbia and is not good for the Ministry that you represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55500	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55501	Obviously, we don't understand each other. I don't distribute eight people or 120 people in the department. It's the job of people in the directorship, management, to determine how many people can properly systematize. I merely illustrated this by the fact that from now on, people who do business, or who are going to do research or stamping, will not be able to conduct surveillance. That won't be allowed, which so far has been. Whether it's going to be four or eight now, that's irrelevant. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55502	Mr. Michaelovich, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55503	From the presentation of the resolute minister, Mr. Ciric, we heard that the directorate's work on about two million cases a year. Therefore, this draft law provides for the possibility for the Directorate to educate a particularly authorised body representing a special legal person or an economic operator to carry out part of the business and activities relating to the control and examination of items of precious metal. Now, Article 28, which is the last member in this third chapter, provides for the obligation of an authorised body to keep accurate records of the tests and measurements carried out. Among other things, the content of this record is very diverse, so it should contain data on all the addresses of the applicant, i.e. the clients for which the tests were carried out, so data on the content of the examination itself, the solutions issued, and need to be kept in the classical and electronic form of a certain period of time, which is a very large and complex job, in which some disagreements and misunderstandings may arise at the time of the relationship of the authorised body – client – directorship. Now in Article 28, paragraph 2, the original proposal was to keep this solution for three years, and I suggested that this time period be five years, because it is never known when it can encrypt something in this mentioned chain and that it should be in the spirit of that folk proverb – better prevented than treated. For this reason, this was adopted by the Government and it is certain that all of this is in the interest of consumers as end-users of valuable metal objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55504	Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55505	Mr. Kiric, you have recently opposed both physical and legal laws. How can two million objects be handled by eight people in a year? That's absolutely impossible. Let me tell you, robots that, the computer that they are, it's not possible for them to turn on and off for so long. Two million objects like working eight people, it's 250,000 objects per man. If 22 working days are 12 months a month, it's 262 working days, and if only 12 days of those poor people, who you're exploiting like that, terriblely, if we give them only 12 days a year of vacation, national holidays and religious holidays, which, of course, is legally impossible, they have an average of 1000 items. If they work eight hours, without being able to take a single minute break, it takes.48 minutes, meaning less than half a minute, to do one object. Do you think anyone can trust you, Mr. Kiriq? Come on, seriously, you don't think we're playing around here and not listening to all the crap you're getting at? Now let's go back a little bit, before this amendment to Article 30, which I filed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, let's go back to your reasons and reasons why we're bringing amendments and additions to the Law on the control of items of precious metals. This is where you played with the intelligence of the MPs. Why don't you just say you're passing the law so you can make it your so-called. put one more cartoon on the European agenda? You make laws because you have to. You bring them in the text you have to. You act exclusively on EU orders. Under this pressure from the EU, you have no opportunity for creativity either, and if you happen to have it, you or someone in your ministry, you simply have to listen blindly. Then you're trying to make fools out of the MPs, like we're illiterate, like we don't see what's in the law, what's in the explanation, what's in the proposal, etc. You say, the area of control of objects of precious metals so far has been governed by the Law on the Control of Objects of Precious Metals. You listed the number of official messengers, etc., which is applied as a republican law on the territory of the Republic of Serbia at the end of the existence of the state union of Serbia. Also, you say – it is important to stress that the area of control of objects of precious metals is governed by sublegal acts adopted under that law. Of course, it is not disputed that it is necessary to change the name of the law, not only in the name but also in the text of the law, wherever it is said that it is a law relating to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Unfortunately, thanks to your EU, there are no more SRJs or the state unions of Serbia-Montenegro. Then we know that under these circumstances, we have to change the law in that part and in that sense. But you don't change the law for that. Why have you allowed this law to be in force for so many years? How did it not occur to you to the moment that this state union fell apart, to bring that moment and put a proposal to amend this law on the agenda of the Assembly? You only do it for that reason, only because of a change in those names, in accordance with the RS Constitution. Then we wouldn't have a debate, you'd just write one proposal to the MPs, that in article 1 and in the name of, say, the law and in all the members where the word of Serbia-Montenegro appears, the word is replaced by the words of the Republic of Serbia. No one would have anything to say to you and no one would have a basis to discuss it. No, that's not the point. This is just a reason for you, so someone might think you have a reason for changing the law. You do it for completely different reasons and completely different reasons. At first, I said the reasons why you are working, and these are the only reasons that the European Commission gives you, within the framework of how you like to boast, the agenda on the European road which, by the way, is disastrous and which I represent a real disaster for the citizens of Serbia, so we in the SRS are using every opportunity to stress that the SRS is most strongly opposed to Serbia's entry into the EU. What do you say, Mr. Minister - that the implementation of this law does not require additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Will you out of your budget, out of your pocket then pay those so-called. Powered faces? Who's gonna pay for that? If you don't need extra funding, who's gonna pay for it? Which ones? Which one will they pay for, Minister? Are you saying they're gonna pay for the parties they're gonna do good for? It'll work where? On a tree, on a branch? Who's gonna get them the room? Who's gonna pay for that room? Who's going to pay for the electricity, the water, the phone, etc. that's being spent in that room? Minister, we're just asking you for the truth. You, if you have a reason to change the law, then tell the people's MPs the real reasons and tell them what the real costs are, and then we'll discuss whether in a situation where tens of thousands of people in Serbia are out of work a week, when according to your official statistics, about a million people in Serbia are hungry today, then we'll talk about it and tell you whether or not we accept that some law is changing, because some Stefan Phile has come to mind, so he gave it to you when he comes. In the case of Article 30, a specific amendment which has been submitted otherwise, Article 30 refers to fees, in the position of the 3rd of this article, the amount and manner of payment of the fee referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall be determined by the Government. I have no idea which government. I guess you meant the government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know, it could be some government of yours. I don't know exactly who's setting it up. For this reason, we have written and suggested that it be said that the amount and method of payment laid down in Article 1 determines the Governments, taking into account the type and consideration of the tasks carried out, as well as the recommendations made by the Directorate and the Ministry. Look, what you're telling us now - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 35 is Paragraph 1. The government's rules of procedure, once again of a government, stipulated that the right to propose material for the government's session has the authority of a state administration in which the work is a matter of which material is concerned, in particular the ministry responsible for precious metals. So this is where you mixed the frogs and the grandmothers. How can you assume the government's rule of law? You can't. Actually, you can't, but here's what you can do and what we can do. Then you say – there is no need to provide for a solution by which the Government takes into account the position and recommendations of the Ministry which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Government to prepare an act governing the level and manner of payment of compensation. First of all, which ministry is responsible for precious metals? Is that what this law says? It doesn't say. It doesn't say, ma'am, it doesn't. I can read and interpret the laws perfectly. So it doesn't say. You, when you explained why you did not accept one of your fellow amendments to Article 6, were then completely speaking the opposite. You then gave authority to the minister, which is usually the manner of members of the RS government in this assembly, because you have an unconstitutional Law on Government and an unconstitutional Law on Ministrys. We regularly remind ministers who give themselves incredible powers. You know, if I were a minister, I couldn't accept as much authority as you get in one law alone. I don't think you're much more capable than I'd be. I claim, even. In one law, you give the minister over 30 jurisdiction, in one law. One ministry covers at least 20 laws. In the end, you'll turn out to be what I was counting on, that by one law you'll be doing 0.48 seconds a day. That's why there's nothing wrong with the state of Serbia that you're doing it that way. To tell you how it says in the Constitution, that is to support my discussion, that you do not think I speak that way because I have thought of it, no, but I call on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, in Article 122, says – the government is the institution of the executive authority in the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course. Then what does article 136 say? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Article 136. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ciric, in his second position, says: the affairs of the state administration are carried out by the ministries and other authorities of the state administration by law. What do you suspect now that I can read and watch what the Constitution says? It would be good, Mr. Ciric, if you would open all your colleagues and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia more often, and the laws that are in force. Of course, we know that no matter how bad a law, the congregation's majority, brings, we know that the law must and should be respected and that for Serbian radicals has never been disputed. We're talking about the text of the law before it's passed, and when it's passed, we know it has to be applied. So do you, Mr. Minister, and your employees at the Ministry and your ministry, probably your colleague Novakic draws attention to the necessity of respect for the Constitution, and I respect his respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because you have no right and you violate the Rules of Procedure if you advocate the Minister and now he doesn't know what I said, and now that he's responsible, a man will have to freak out who knows what.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55506	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55507	I don't know why you're so negative. First of all, I am pleased that you have actually managed to understand about this bill's proposal in the things that our hidden intentions are, and how who works, ultimately, is known who makes the decision, the citizens of Serbia, so they will, as every time so far, and next year will declare who did it. I just wanted to tell you a few things. Apropo of what you said about who the government is, who is it? You also said in your amendment by the Government, you did not say the Government of the Republic of Serbia, number one, and number two, the Constitution, which you are calling upon to say nicely - the position of the Government, so it says in Article 122. "Government", not saying "Government of the Republic of Serbia", so I think it's clear that it's the government of the Republic of Serbia, not someone's godfather or as you already said. The second thing, as to why this law has not been passed before, I will remind you that since 2007 it has been a formal-legal body directorate within the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, so it couldn't have been before. As far as your question goes, I think it went in the direction of who pays the costs. The economic operator who wants to deal with trades in stamping, interrogations alone bear the costs of approval, number one, and so far the subjects who have submitted the cases to the Directorate, and from tomorrow on condition and authorised economic operators, have paid a certain fee. The fee will not be higher for authorized persons, for authorised economic operators than it is for the Directorate. But the fact that you are constantly referring to how much revenue is lost, whether you or one of your colleagues, in terms of a stamping study, with the income that the Directorate has achieved so far, there is a certain cost, so that we can't just look at income, there must be a cost side. And what you said about two million items. Two million cases are accepted, since you're a lawyer, you correct me if I've mispronounced myself, in the Directorate. This means that, for example, 100 pieces of some precious metal are being sampled according to clearly foreseen rules, so out of 100 pieces of something, I'm going to be very banal, you're causing 10, you're testing 10, and based on these 10, you approve and stamp these 100. It's not exactly your math that everyone has to work in 48 seconds or as far as you've said, I'm not sure. So there's a procedure. I said two million items to be accepted. That's the total number. In these two million cases, these two million are required to be caused by a clearly established procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55508	There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55509	Mr. Kiriq, I really don't understand why you've concluded that I'm negative. I'm very positive, but your law is very negative. I can't praise something that's not good. If you think the MP is negative just because he puts up a position on the proposal that you represent here on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then there is something wrong with you. You mustn't behave like this, Mr. Minister. The MP has the right to state the position of the political party he represents. That's all I do, like all my colleagues, and nothing personal to you and nothing negative to you. But according to the policy you represent, according to this terrible path you call a European pathway, there is really nothing positive we can say about it. If you don't like it, we're sorry. Simply, that's what the SRS' position is. You say - and the Constitution says "Government". But the Constitution says "The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia". Then it changes the context. You're still not a lawyer, so sometimes you have to trust some good lawman from the MPs' benches. Next, you're saying I asked why this law wasn't passed before. No, it was not a question, it was a question, or an observation, that you do not deceive us, that you do not say that the reason for this law is simply a termological change of "Serbia and Montenegro", instead "the Republic of Serbia". So in that sense, it was our question. Then why is it so important and if it threatened me not to know what in the state of Serbia – colleague Novakovic, I also have a little more time from the parliamentary group, let me finish – if that was the case, then you should have told the MPs. You're saying these jobs will be paid by economic operators. That's me, when we were communicating like this when I was talking, throwing it away, that it would be paid by business operators, and I understood what you said, so I asked you who was going to pay the other costs before he got the first job, this lab that you're going to hire? Who's going to pay before this lab starts making money, and what's the profit of the state from doing these jobs to the Directorate, and how much if it's some lab that you or someone from your party are going to give someone? So, where's the country bill? That's the question you've remained in debt for. You say: every business involves both income and expenses. It is not disputed and of course it is, but then don't say that the adoption of this law does not require additional funding from the budget. So, you have to explain to us, that's what I said before, how much income, how much expenditure, so the MPs tell us if it's time to make those new expenses. (President: Time.) I'm done. Thank you, Mr. Kiric, so nice of you to try to answer, but let's answer all the questions then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55510	Thank you. This now runs out of time for the SRS parliamentary group. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55511	Dear Mrs. Radeta, I always try to answer all the questions, if I didn't accidentally answer someone, not with intent, but simply, you asked a lot of questions in ten minutes, so maybe I didn't get to write everything down. Let me just tell you one more time, there's no extra cost. There is no establishment of new institutions by the state. Here we have opened up the possibility that the private sector, the economic operators, if they recognize the need, the intention, the interest, ask to be certified to carry out research and stamping activities. That's all. How much will they have to spend, whether it will be worth it or not, we are not going to do it. Let's just call her that, if that's what I'm supposed to say, and practice at all. So, apart from the directorship, we will have the opportunity to have private practice, so to express myself, that is, economic operators, other than the directorate, have the right to do these jobs. As to what you mentioned, the reasons for adopting, or proposing on our part of this law, are not just termological harmonisation. In an explanation, I'll just quote one of the reasons. Among others, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, is mentioned, in addition to the need to comply with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the basic reasons for the adoption of this law are to allow the monitoring of the development of areas in the international plan and to take new solutions into national legislation, as well as the establishment of a transparent and impartial way of carrying out cases of control of precious metals in the Republic of Serbia, etc. I don't want to read everything now, you must have read these reasons, so it's not just a termological alignment, as you say. I certainly wouldn't propose a law and not come to defend it if it were just a terminology, if it weren't for the state union of Serbia and Montenegro anymore, but rather for the Republic of Serbia. There are fundamental reasons here, some of them I have mentioned, and I am confident that this law will be passed. The fact that this law has been improved by amendments to all MPs and oppositions and positions once again speaks enough about the fact that this Parliament is doing extremely well, so that only from the point of view of the Ministry of Economy or the Executive Authority, however you want, to say again that, in the matter of the debate on this law and the Law on Economic Society and Financial Restructuring, these are the three laws that my ministry has proposed, and the debate and the amendments adopted, those that have been rejected, I must say that both the debate and the discussion were at a constructive level and the amendments that all of you MPs have proposed dramatically in a positive way have improved the legal solutions that we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55512	Thank you. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Replica. I don't think there's any reason for the replica, it's answered the question, but come on, I believe your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55513	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I will not further challenge the replica, but I just want to say that it is good that you too understand that MPs should communicate with the representatives of the Government which, we must admit, is not often the case when it comes to someone who is chairing the parliament, as it is not often the case for the minister to participate in the debate with the MPs. That's definitely good. Here, after this debate you've actually said what we've been saying since the beginning, that this is also one of the laws that, without any special priorities, is being passed to fulfill so-called. Agenda on the so-called so-called agenda. the road to the EU. And we from the SRS are just warning you, not just you and your ministry, but the general government of the Republic of Serbia we warn that you intend to do what you call a European path, but let us discuss the laws that are passed in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, let us discuss the laws after which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will finally start to live better, let us discuss the laws that you will seriously oppose corruption, crime, poverty, etc. So that's what we're talking about. Of course, we have made concrete remarks to this law through amendments and also in the principle of debate, but we do not generally accept what the concept of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55514	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55515	I'm sorry Mr. Minister isn't here to correct one indiscretion of the law. Article 37(3) states that, if the manufacturer makes any mistakes, the Directorate shall adopt a solution requiring the manufacturer to agree on those failures. What's the problem? The problem, Mr. Minister, is there's no appointment, so there's no legal time limit prescribed when the Directorate brings a solution. Is that in one day, two days, 15 days, two months, two years? At the same time in paragraph 5, you have prescribed that an appeal may be made to the Minister within 15 days. How is it that there is a deadline against a complaint, and there is no time limit when the Directorate makes a solution that requires that all these irregularities be removed? So, something's wrong, or that story might be about that conversation and that debate about the state administration's urgency an hour ago. We see from this, unless there's a deadline for the state administration not being up-to-date, that simply that deadline could take two years. Why two years? Look at the transitional and final provisions. Sublegal acts prescribed by this law will be adopted within two years of the date of entry into force of this law, and those acts from Official Messenger No 80/96 will apply until then. So there's a two-year deadline to bring in sublegal acts, and when there's something to do with the inspection, then there's no time limit. (President: I thank you, Mr Dimitrievich. Time's up. ) Please accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-05-23-0.u55516	National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Mladen Grujic submitted together to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 39th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. With this, we've exhausted everything we've planned for today's work. I'm closing today's session. We'll continue work tomorrow, May 24th, at 10:00 p.m.
