ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53192	Dear People's MPs, let's continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 88 MPs attend the meeting, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the normal work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Zoran Nikolic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic Dejanovic called for the joint principled search on the drafts of the 5th to 11 law, in addition to the representatives of promoter Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, the sittings are attended by Vladan Manic, adviser to the Ministry of Finance, Dijana Montillo, adviser to the Ministry of Finance, Sanja Saric, head of the group of securities and the capital market in the Ministry of Finance and Zoran Sandic, head of the Payments Group at the finance ministry. We're continuing our work. We move to points 5-11 of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE MARKET OF CAPITALS AND AMENDMENTS OF THE INVESTIGATION BUSINESS, INVESTIGATION FONDS, FINANCE LIZING, DESCRIPTION OF THE HOLDING CAMATE, VOLVAL PENSION FONDS AND PENSION PLANS AND PAYMENT TRANSPORT (principal search) I remind you that it is appropriate to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups for five hours, as well as for this time to be allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, namely the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS-JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit their application for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which obliges us to submit our lists of speakers to today's debate before the opening of the search. I also inform you that representatives of the parliamentary groups are authorised on these agenda points: MP Djuro Peric, MP group of the United Pensioners of Serbia; MP Elvira Kovac, MP group of minorities, MP Dejan Radenkovic, Socialist Party of Serbia - Unity of Serbia; MP Milan Lapcevic, parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia; MP Mladen Grujic, MP New Serbia; MP Dragan Stevanovic, MP of the Serbian Radical Party and MP Branka Ljiljak, MP for European Serbia. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law on the Market of Capitals, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Funds, Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on the High Interest Rate Act, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and Pension Plans, and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments. Does the representative of Proposer Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53193	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, there is today a strong set of laws, amendments and additions to the law, which will contribute to the further regulation of our financial market. The financial market is still not a significant source of financing for our economy. The financial market was the trigger of this great crisis in which the world lies. These are two key reasons why it is very important that this package of laws be passed. First, to ensure the financial market to a much greater extent than today is the case of financing our economy by those who have the resources available in the country and abroad, that they can invest in our businesses, in our securities of value, whether they're owned or owed, to provide funding and our country, these are all the reasons why it's very important to improve our system. It is very important to improve the system and because the actions shared by our citizens in public enterprises are increasingly in circulation. A growing number of our citizens will thus be in possession of securities of value, first debt, that was the case with securities of values that regulated old foreign exchange savings, now owned by free actions that they came into the process of transforming our public enterprises, and tomorrow and others, because experience has shown that portfolio investment opportunities are something that is important, not only for that narrow circle of slightly more wealthy citizens, or those companies that have surpluses, but also for our citizens in general. Not all of our citizens may be in a position to invest in securities of value, but it is important that banks, insurance companies, investment funds, pension funds, which will be in contact with a much larger number of our citizens, are able to invest in securities of value in the capital market in a safe, transparent way that will be in the interest of our entire economy. The second reason, that's what I just mentioned, which is that unfortunately in the transition process, even in the world's most developed capital markets, a large number of irregularities have been observed in recent years. We have seen that the fundamental crisis in the world has begun by poorly regulated certain capital markets in the United States. Let us also remind ourselves of the great scandal over the Maydof Fund, which has deceived a large number of savings and very sophisticated investors, and therefore in this package of laws we have additional regulation, security for our citizens, transparency in the information of those who want to invest money, or those who invest money on behalf of citizens, that the capital market is developing in one safe way primarily for citizens, and then for investors and for the whole state. I would just add that there are also a number of provisions in this package that will facilitate business in financial terms with abroad. Here I would mention the Foreign Affairs Act, a law inherited from other times, when relations between Yugoslavia and the world were relations between two different economic and political systems. This is an additional step towards liberalising these relations and harmonising with what are relations with EU actors, but also from all over. Madam Vice President, honourable Members of Parliament, in this first address, I would now like to say something more precise and more detailed about these two laws which I think are carrying this package before you today. First, the Capital Market Act, which is a system law and, on the other hand, the Foreign Exchange Act, which shows progress in relations between our country and abroad, because this law will provide much easier business, not only for banks but also for companies operating abroad. Both laws come after many years, I must say, a consultation with the economy, with the financial system, with our partners, with international financial organisations and with the EU. They are a fruit of further harmonisation and should provide, as I said, better passability on the capital market; on the one hand security, transparency, and on the other hand a reduction in operating costs for our companies. The Capital Market Act; the capital market in our country is still a modest volume, but we can predict that it will play a much more significant role in the years to come. Ten years ago, it began to develop. During economic growth between 2003 and 2008, this market grew well and then, as a result of the crisis, and the index of the Belgrade Stock Exchange and the number of those present, and even the number of those companies present as brokers and dealers, decreased significantly. However, it has been visible in the last few months of growth, the growth of those present because a large number of our citizens have also received free actions in the process of transforming the public sector and because we have renewed interest in not only domestic investors, but foreign investors for investment in our country. The four key principles behind this capital market law are: investor protection, market transparency, harmonisation with European directives, which is also further enhanced at this point and, finally, regulation of those who intervene on the market, above all on the consequences of the market, and it is the brokerage and dealer companies, either independent or as part of a larger financial group and, of course, authorised banks. What are the key institutes? First, we have here for the first time a very detailed public offering. We had a situation where a Tiger hasn't been able to reach funds in our capital market for years, although they have invested significant financial and human resources in it and it would be instructed that in the years that our best domestic enterprises come into the funds that matter to them to finance their own development. It would not be good if in our country the only sources were short-term business-bank loans or state interventions that are necessary at this time of crisis, but would not be enough. It is very important to develop on our market opportunities for successful businesses to find investors in their debt but also property securities of value. That's why here is very detailedly regulated the way the public offering is conducted, in a way that is suitable for our businesses at this point and for the next 10 years. By the way, for those who want to go on the list, the demands are higher. For those who will go towards professional investors, they are somewhat smaller. All in all, what is offered in this law is something that will allow companies like "Tiger" to be able to implement to the end, in an economical, efficient way, public tender procedure, and that it is transparent and clear to those who would like to invest in such a public offering. The second element, it is to identify different segments of the market. The world’s capital market has about three segments. One is so-called. Listing and that's what's called here, in this law of ours, a regulated market. The second segment is the one concerning trade, but only within the circle of professional investors, i.e. those whose profession is to invest in the capital market. In this law, these are trading platforms for these securities of value, where only those whose profession is investment would have access. And finally, the possibility of trading outside the regulated market under certain conditions, but not being something that would involve citizens. This is, above all, foreseen for securities of value, not so much for owners, and that is how we want to form these three segments that will respond to both the needs and regulations of functioning those markets according to different segments, on the one hand to investors, and on the other hand to those looking for funds on the capital market. What is probably the most visible to many of our citizens and businesses is regulated, which is the secondary market for securities of value. For equity charters of the value of philosophy is clear – property charters of value are proposed to be on the regulated segment of the capital market. Why? In order to avoid certain problems identified in the ownership transformation or in some other countries in transition, when those who had privileged information in an under-regulated market were able to benefit greatly and a large number of investors felt and was damaged. That is why Serbia continues and strengthens this key principle, which is that what concerns equity charters of value, shares and what is strictly linked to these actions is exclusively subject to secondary trade in the regulated segment of the capital market. As far as debt securities are concerned, this primarily refers to government securities of value or values issued by those associated with the state. This is where we want the so-called market to develop. municipal securities of value. This is one market that will be interesting for our cities in the perspective and as an alternative to the debt of business banks there is envisaged the possibility of a parallel trade on regulated and on that other segment concerning professional investors so-called. platforms, multilateral trading platforms. What is important for those who want to withdraw from the market at a given moment, there are clearly defined conditions in which a withdrawal from the securities market can be made. This is also important for investors, it is important for those who have issued these securities of value and for the stability of the capital market in general. The obligations of those public companies that appear on the capital market are also very clearly defined, by proportionality. Those who want to receive funding from citizens must inform every quarter of the situation in that society. For those who address other segments to professional investors or who are minor, obligations are somewhat more perforated, twice a year or twice a year. This is where one form of balance is sought and proposed between, on the one hand, the scope and width of investors who attract and, on the other hand, the need for investors to be regularly and deeply informed about what is happening in society and about the costs of emerging on the capital market. There's got to be a balance. For smaller companies, which need smaller funds and which do not expect these funds to come from any of these professional investors, it is important that this phenomenon is not too expensive. On the other hand, for public enterprises, for large enterprises, for those who want to get the support of a very wide circle of investors, including our citizens, it is very important and as it is proposed here, that the information be large, very regular, quarterly. That's why the obligations of information societies here are very detailedly worked out. We have a whole head of this law dedicated to curbing abuse in trading securities of value. As I mentioned at the outset, the capital market is not for everyone. The capital market is important, but it's very important that it's not born at the same time, because it's not fixed. In Serbia over the past 10 years, we have experienced quite a strict regulatory, unrare punishment and, on the other hand, one confidence in the development of the capital market that has grown, up to this crisis of course. It's very important that we continue on that path. We have experience, for example, of the Warsaw Stock Exchange, where the regulation is hard and was initially highly disputed by investors, both domestic and foreign, but today this stock market is an extremely important element in the development of the Polish economy and because it is well-bound savings, not only domestic Poland, but regional and, on the other hand, regulatory. The capital market today is able to attract significant funds and investors, so that significant firms that come receive these funds and play a regional role. That's the model we're following here. There were other models 20 years ago, for example, inadequately regulated markets, such as the one in Prague, which failed to be maintained due to lack of transparency, liquidity and from these first shocks and first scandals they did not recover. That is why it is proposed that the Serbian capital market can be somewhat stricter to develop properly. This is more important than speed, especially at this point where a gradual recovery of the capital market is expected in any case. That is why it is very important that those who intervene in the capital market, first of all those intermediaries such as brokerage and distillers, are well regulated. That is why it is proposed that the minimum capital, depending on the services it will provide to our citizens, goes from 115 to 730,000 euros. This is quite high if we compare it with some other countries in transition, but it is also the price and professionalisation of those who intervene in the capital market. To remind ourselves, the largest number of scandals that occurred in transition countries comes from those intermediaries with insufficient capital, insufficient regulation, which would disappear overnight and leave a series of small investors to only find out they were cheated. This law is there to prevent this, as is foreseen here by one investor protection fund that will be paid by those who intervene in the capital market and which will guarantee up to 20,000 euros, which will cover a huge number of i.e. percentage of our citizens to invest in the capital market. This is a solution that needs to ensure that our citizens, who have modest means, are still able to appear through intermediaries on the capital market. The market fund will be regulated and monitored by the Ministry of Finance and the People's Bank and will be there to extend the circle in one safe way by those who invest through this guarantee. I'd like to say that some institutions, which have shown their relevance over the past 10 years, have continued. This is, on the one hand, the Central Register, the Securities of Values clearing and the Securities Commission, which, unfortunately, has been in V.D. for years. condition. Dear Vice President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to step out of that V.D. The Commission will be invited to select the presidents and four members of the Securities Commission, who will only be responsible for you and where, as seen in the institutions of this law, avoid any form of conflict of interest, because these members of the Council will also have to have a working book in the Securities Commission, to organise this very important institution which must monitor all participants in the transport of capital. That is why I call on the parliamentary groups and the positions and opposition to support this capital market law. He will make significant progress for our country. He is essentially the system law that follows the second number of laws, e.g. amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act, which essentially harmonizes that law with those provisions that are amended in the Capital Market Act. If I didn't, I'd like to say a few words in this opening statement about amendments to the Foreign Exchange Act. Here's a law waiting for a large number of our successful companies. I think we will all agree that one of the key objectives for our country in the years to come is to increase our country's exports. For years now, key exporters have shown you a number of provisions of the Foreign Exchange Act that make it very difficult for them to operate abroad and increase costs. I'd just like to mention a few principles of this law. First, it is to implement recommendations to get our country into the WTO. If this esteemed home votes this law, it will be one of the last obstacles to our country's entry into the WTO. The second element is that we solve a real series of problems that have arisen in practice, which both large and small companies that operate abroad. The third thing is that the next step in liberalisation is done, I want to underline incomplete liberalisation, because the time has not yet come in our country's foreign exchange business, but that will allow the real sector that is operating abroad, which is fighting on foreign markets, to have a law that will not bother it but help it. A few examples based on these principles it is, for example, to leave out that old provision, which is that the money earned on exports must be entered within 180 days back to the country and which has caused major problems and costs for our exporters. It's something that came from those times when the dinar wasn't internally converting. It comes from those times when the foreign reserve was very weak. Is it possible to understand these provisions, which have been trying to ensure that every job that provides for our economy inflows in foreign exchanges is strengthened by foreign reserves? These times are behind us and these provisions are deleted and only now are they brought to one normal obligation, which is that all transactions that have not been settled within a year, whether they are charged on export or on imports, are recorded and reported as such. The second example I want to particularly point out here is that this change is something that will significantly improve the position of our exporters. This is the fact that, if these changes are adopted, our exporters are able to beat up claims and debts, to be able to do business with the real sector, and these are claims and debts stemming from external trade activity, but on the other hand in financial terms in terms of relations with banks, domestic and foreign, to be able, if business opportunities, to beat those claims and those debts. Because economic life is simply such that it is sought and owed with the same partners at a given time and this flexibility will allow our businesses to invest much less in what is their most precious activity, and this is the possibility of funding exports and the possibility of significantly reducing operating costs in this way and thus being in a much better position to win the external markets. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, probably in economic terms the biggest battle for Serbia we have to win, is that Serbia's exports go from this 30% of GDP to 40 and 50, one day hopefully to 60 and 70% of GDP. If one of Slovakia was able to do it in 10 years, there's no reason our country can't do it. These changes and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act are a very significant step on the road. That's why I'm calling on all the parliamentary groups to support one of these laws. Thank you so much for your attention. Here's a big package for the good of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53194	Does the word rapporteur of the Finance Committee, MP Milan Vukkovic, want? No, I don't. ) Does the word rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, President of the Committee, Laszlo Varga, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the Presidents or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53195	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, from this set of amendments and additions laws that we are discussing today, I would like to discuss voluntary pension funds. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and Pension Plans, there are significant newspapers covering more than half of the new normised text. A law on voluntary pension funds and pension plans was adopted in 2005 and has started to apply since 1 April 2005. It's been working for five years, and then nine voluntary pension funds were established with 170,000 members. It's probably a variable category, but the last piece of information I had is that. The aim of the adoption of this law was to allow citizens additional savings for age, by accumulation of funds for voluntary pension funds managed by professional management companies. What are the reasons for these significant changes and additions to the proposed law? Following the five-year application of the Voluntary Pension Funds Act, the real situation in the financial market, the effects of the international financial and economic crisis, as well as the need to take measures to establish a stable, sustainable and functional system of their business, and to protect the interests of their members, have been seen in the wake of the five-year application of the law on voluntary pension funds. In this five-year application of the law, the problem of an underdeveloped capital market and a lack of quality and variety of values charters has been expressed. It was necessary to make certain changes in order to reduce uncertainty, indifference and to strengthen trust in the business of voluntary pension funds. It was necessary to make changes, among other things, and for reasons of continued compliance with EU rules, especially with the Directive on activities and supervision of institutions for professional pension insurance. Also, certain amendments to the laws relating to the management company have been made. It was founded exclusively as a closed stock company. It can be founded by domestic and foreign natural and legal persons. In the case of voting rights in the management company, it is proposed that natural persons can only have unskilled participation and that more than 50% of the participation in capital, i.e. voting rights in the management company must have legal persons, those involved in banking activities, insurance operations or those engaged in the activity of pension funds. The domestic legal entity with the majority state, i.e. social capital, cannot be the founder of a management company, is the exception of banks and insurance companies with majority state capital, which can be the founders of a company. When the participation of shareholders in the management company’s capital is reduced by 10 % or more, the company is obliged to notify the NBS accordingly. It is also proposed that the NBS may require the management company to amend and supplement the rules of business when it finds that it does not provide sufficient supplies for the interests of members of voluntary pension funds. The NBS, too, may require the management company to amend and supplement its business rules to all members of voluntary pension funds, i.e. bonds, payments to which it relates, if it considers it to be in their best interest, not later than 20 days before the start of their application. The PUPS Group believes it is very important that the NBS has such powers as well as other powers towards the management company, as these are the only secure guarantees for the stability of the functioning of voluntary pension funds. As regards the provisions relating to the property of voluntary pension funds and which determine their status and ensure maximum security, the draft law has carried out significant additions. These additions produce a number of positive effects, both for fund members and for management society. In this way, fund members are further stimulated to invest funds in the fund and accumulate these funds as long as possible. This solution reduces the outflow of funds from the fund. It allows, which is very important, an increase in the liquidity of the fund, easier management of its assets, and thus a more stable operation of the fund and provides conditions for greater contributions. The PUPS Group considers that Article 21 should be deleted The bill, which gives the incentive to buy the first apartment, which in our opinion is not in line with the basic principles of the existence of voluntary pension funds. We've submitted the amendment, so when there's a discussion of the details, then we'll talk a little bit more about it. It is also significant to note that a change in Article 46(1) of the applicable law is proposed, by stipulating that the value of the assets of the fund is made up of the sum of the value of the portfolios of the fund, the deposit of cash from the bank's funds, the property owned by the fund, the funds in the bank's account, as well as the claims of the fund. In order to improve the conditions for the operation of voluntary pension funds and to create opportunities for greater risk dispersion and safer business, the provisions relating to the investment of the fund’s assets have been extended, with the possibility of investing in investment units of domestic open investment funds, which are currently, as far as I have the data, four, and open funds established and operating in EU Member States, or OECD, as well as short-term and debt charters of values issued or guaranteed by banks based in the Republic of Serbia. The draft law has made important changes and additions to the provisions relating to the withdrawal of the availability of accumulated funds in the fund. The proposed changes have been made with the aim of destabilising the early withdrawal of accumulated funds from pension funds, and in order to increase the accumulation of these funds, which in the long term contribute to the increase of fund members' funds, to safer management of funds, to protect the assets of the fund and to make satisfactory contributions. In this respect, the existing provisions stipulating that the right of a member of a voluntary pension fund, i.e. a pension plan to withdraw and make available to the accumulated assets is achieved by 53 years of life, replacing the provisions which provide for the right of a member of a voluntary pension fund, i.e. a pension plan to withdraw and make available to the accumulated assets by 58 years of life, as this amendment applies only to the members of the fund who will sign the contract after the entry into force of this law. This shift of the age limit is a way of harmonising with the law that regulates the PIO, where the age limit has also been moved. However, it should be pointed out in particular that the risk of age is precisely a risk due to which a system of voluntary pension funds is established. One of the main reasons for membership in these funds is the savings for age, which is the addition of a regular pension from the PIO Fund. As regards the provisions that prescribe the possibility of withdrawing accumulated funds through one-off payments, changes have been made in the sense that one-time withdrawal of these funds is allowed up to 30% of the total accumulated assets of the fund members. This amendment applies exclusively to fund members who will sign contracts after the entry into force of this law. By limiting the one-time withdrawal of funds will be reduced, certainly, the observed abuses related to the withdrawal of funds from these funds used for other purposes – ongoing consumption, purchase of consumer goods and the like, which essentially loses the meaning and purpose of the existence of these funds in general. The provisions relating to the withdrawal of funds in the event of the death of a member of the fund have also been more clearly laid down, by regulating that the right to transfer funds to a person previously designated by a member of a voluntary pension fund is subject to the provisions of the laws governing the insurance of life for the benefit of third parties. This alignment further harmonised the right of a member of the fund to pre-determin the person to whom the funds from his account will be transferred in the event of his death. In order for voluntary pension funds to function normally, they also have certain costs charged from the property of a voluntary pension fund. These costs relate to the purchase, sale and transfer of securities from the value invested in the assets of the fund, and to the costs of services of the central register, deposits and clearing of securities of value, the costs of the organizers, markets and tax obligations, as well as the costs of ongoing maintenance of the immovable property in which the assets of the fund are invested, providing their maintenance at an appropriate level, and in accordance with the law governing the investment and ongoing maintenance of the immovable property. Certain costs shall also be charged from the management company's assets. Article 23 of the existing law has been completely amended, with regard to the compensation of the management company. A fee for management and account transfer services of a member of a fund shall be paid by a member of the fund, in accordance with the management company's tariff regulation. As for the fund management fee, which was calculated at a rate of up to 2% per year from the value of the fund, the bill will account for a rate of up to 1.25 per year from the value of the voluntary pension fund's assets and will apply from January next year, compared to the year in which it entered into force in which the National Bank of Serbia determines the net value of the assets of all voluntary pension funds together, and that this amounts to 0.75 or more than the latest publication of the estimate of the value of the gross social product of the relevant republican authority. As far as these percentages are concerned, there may be some lower amounts because, as I can see, there is also a proposal in some amendments to reduce this by some small amount. The PUPS Group believes that the overall functioning and stability of voluntary pension funds is an extremely important role of the NBS. She's actually a guarantee of the essential existence of voluntary pension funds. Her supervisory function makes this practically possible. For example, Article 69a provides that if, during the course of direct control or on the basis of reports obtained by indirect control, the management company has made serious irregularities, i.e. that its financial situation or financial situation of voluntary pension funds has deteriorated significantly, and that there is the possibility of a significant deterioration of its liquidity, i.e. when it is assessed that it is necessary to protect the property of members of the voluntary pension fund, the National Bank of Serbia, a solution to the temporary measure, requires the management company to undertake one or more activities, such as temporary suspension of the conclusion of new membership contracts, i.e. the pension plan to temporarily manage the assets of the voluntary pension fund, or to have its assets exclusively with the prior consent of the National Bank of Serbia, to suspend the implementation of the decision of the administration and management company without the approval of theNBS , as well as to suspend the reception of new payments on the basis of the contracts alreadyconcluded. From what I've seen, the NBS has its amendments to this state, and I think they require a slightly sharper relationship in these restrictions, I've seen there that they're looking for these management companies to have capital, as far as I've seen, something much higher than it is now, about 100 million dinars, I guess. In carrying out supervision of the NBS, it shall have the right to have insight into the accounts and other documentation of legal persons associated with the management company under supervision and may require those persons to provide it with other information of importance for the exercise of supervision. All these proposed amendments in the law strengthen the NBS supervisory and control function according to voluntary pension funds, which, according to the PUPS parliamentary group, will further strengthen the regularity and stability of their work. Due to all this, the PUPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill in voting day and we hope that some of these amendments will also be adopted, which will then complete this text of the law on voluntary pension funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53196	The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53197	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Vice-President, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when we talked about amendments to the Law on PIO, we had a joint discussion, then we talked about the budget, and we talked a little bit about it. Today again on the agenda we have seven draft laws. I will certainly succeed in my 20 minutes to mention every one, but, like the predecessor, I will focus most on the amendments and additions to the Law on Voluntary Pension and Invalidity Funds and Plans. If you'll excuse me, I'll try to link the law we passed in December and these changes and the new law that we're passing today with a little dyspression. This morning I met some people who asked me what was on the agenda and when I said how important the set was, people who unfortunately still lack great trust in the National Assembly were truly surprised to discuss such important things. Too bad we're gone right now. One of the basic objectives of SVM is, of course, the safety of pensioners' living standards. In line with the basic objectives of the pension system, which are to provide an absolute standard of living and maintain a relative standard of pensioner, the pension system of all countries consists of three basic components: the first mandatory component for providing minimum income in age, the second is also a mandatory component that allows maintenance of income at age, and the third is a supplemental component that is based entirely on a voluntary basis. The biggest controversy and controversy over the changes, the reconstruction of the pension system is mainly related to the second component, which is normally the state system. It differs quite differently in countries and depends on different solutions related to the basic elements of the pension system, such as types of pensions, financing or managing these pensions. As we all know in Serbia, the current funding of compulsory pensions that was once popular in the past, precisely because of the relatively young population, was a large number of employees and profits were relatively beautiful. This way of funding pensions is based on pensioners getting their pensions from the money that current generations provide for them, and thus we, the current generations of workers, are entitled to pensions from those couples that will pay for future generations. Unfortunately, due to the change in population structure, the population is getting older, due to an increase in unemployment and other negative consequences, I cannot say that this system is experiencing failure, but it is becoming harder and harder to secure mandatory pensions. The other problem I personally feel is that citizens are not sufficiently familiar with the system and have doubts or even half-true information, such as. that the contribution rate for PIO in Serbia is high. Comparing our country with others and countries in transition, this 22% rate is not high, given that we provide these pensions with three types of risks, not only from age, that this money provides health insurance to pensioners, etc. Of course, we must not leave it out of the sight that it depends on the characteristics of the labour market, on the level of employment, on profits which are unfortunately very unfavourable in the Republic of Serbia. One of the basic solutions to this problem when you're afraid that you'll have enough income in your old age are just voluntary savings for old days, which would provide decent income for so-called. Third period. However, we must understand that in our country, a major obstacle to voluntary savings, for the even greater popularity of voluntary pension funds, is the simplest said fear or mistrust of citizens who, we will agree, have all had a few bad experiences in the past with hyperinflation, with pyramid schemes, these citizens have been deprived of old foreign currency savings, so they don't even trust banks. In the last few years, as mentioned, a Bill on Voluntary Pension Funds and Pension Plans has been adopted. In recent years, however, citizens, fearing that they will not have enough income in their old age, have been involved and are being paid into pension funds. But again, if we look back from 2008, 2009 because of the generality and financial crisis somehow these voluntary pension funds have been put in the background and are almost forgotten, but we are sure that in the future they will win on their own importance. The predecessor spoke a lot about the details of these draft laws and the addition of the law on voluntary pension funds, and we all know that the essence of the adoption of this law five years ago is to be voluntaryly accumulated by means of voluntary savings of income in the future. What is significant about these changes and additions that we are now bringing is that the basic objective is to amend and supplement that just more secure or protect the interests of members of voluntary pension funds, and all to strengthen trust in both existing and potential future members of individuals of voluntary pension funds. Unfortunately, as I mentioned, there is concern within the citizens that the level of pension paid from the state pension fund will be reduced, so I must reiterate once again that the estimates are such that they will increase the importance of voluntary pensions and that they will gain more significant interest. It is interesting that I highlighted one of the most positive things changes and additions, that these proposed changes give the possibility that the property of a member in a voluntary pension fund can be used as a guarantee for his obligations to the Republic and to banks regarding the first purchase of the apartment. The SVM finds this very significant. It is interesting that the rules of withdrawal and availability of accumulated funds change the limit, the age, because it was possible to achieve this right from the age of 53, while it is now increasing to 58 years old. It should be mentioned that it is also interesting to withdraw once, which allows 30% of the funds, which is important to prevent abuses. Of course, because of those who wonder what if, under other conditions, I signed a contract earlier, it should be emphasized that they can still withdraw and dispose of their assets from 53 years of age and that they can withdraw 100% of the funds, and those who will sign these contracts in the future, that is, after the adoption of these amendments and additions, will work on a new one. It is interesting that it is not forgotten that this accumulated savings can be used before, if permanent inability to work is established, and that it is stressed that in the event of the death of the users of the accumulated funds, the income can be used by the one that he has emphasized himself. If no one is highlighted or exists, it cannot be found, then the provisions of the Law on Inheritance are applied. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, at the very beginning of the presentation, spoke about the roof system law, about the capital market law, and I would refer to it. He's systemically, and everyone else is built on that law. Of course, it became clear that after a few years, that the development of new institutional investors, as the voluntary pension funds and investment funds have just been mentioned, there has been an extremely unfavourable situation, an underdeveloped capital market and a lack of quality and variety of securities of value. SVM MPs feel it is necessary to protect, or to make as attractive as possible and to make our capital market more favourable for both domestic and foreign investors. We welcome the adoption of this system law, particularly parts relating to greater investor protection, to ensuring a fair, efficient and transparent capital market, as well as a reduction of systemic risk. The concrete positive solutions in this bill that I would stress are transparency in terms of disclosure of data, reporting obligations and mandatory public companies to make up reports on their business. Of course, we also welcome the independence and independence of the Securities Commission, which will be responsible for business only for us, this high House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is also interesting to include the media, websites as a media. The website will inform citizens, as well as perform the obligation to keep an investment society records of all the services and transactions performed, and what we heard in the opening exhibition and what we will all point out, it is really important to protect the interests of minority shareholders, because most of our citizens are actually minority shareholders, and more effective and stronger sanctioning various abuses on the market. The capital market law provides and adequately completes the regulation of the capital market in the Republic of Serbia, all in line with EU legislation in this area. We are aware of the fact that this bill could have been drawn up taking into account the existing possibilities of our capital market which is not ideal. The next proposal is the draft law amending and supplementing the law on payment services. The most important newspaper that will be interesting, both for natural and legal persons, and who perform the work, that their obligation to pay the market daily is changed, that the dinars received in cash on any basis must now be paid no later than seven days. In addition to the development of the domestic capital market, SVM also advocates the development and modernisation of payment traffic in our country. What has already been said today is that, unfortunately, in the current situation, it is impossible to establish the number of bonds and powers that have been issued and that creditors are in a very difficult situation, since they cannot establish how potentially their debtors are actually in charge and the risk of dealing with them. Therefore, we welcome the paper amending this law, which requires the adoption of a public register of bonds and powers, which would be available again via the Internet and in this way the creditors could see if the debtors were in a blockade, how long, etc. We sincerely hope that by creating an up-to-date database of this unique register of bonds and powers will indeed lead to a higher percentage of the collection of claims, it is always problematic, a higher degree of financial discipline, legal, economic and financial security and, ultimately, to the introduction of what sort of order into our financial flows. The draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Lising Act is also important, as the SVM believes it is necessary to provide conditions for further development of the financial lease market. Financial licking as a form is very popular in developed countries, while we have only been developing for the past few years, and this is one of the forms that has suffered the biggest blow due to the global financial crisis. These amendments and additions to the bill open a new possibility, both for the further development of the financial lease market and for the further development of the real estate market, as the subject of the financial lease is now expanding to real estate. What is significant, the bill stressed that a leaser must have a license issued by the National Bank of Serbia to carry out financial lease operations, as well as that he should carry out financial lease operations as a heavy activity and that he cannot lend money, and I believe that this is very important because of avoiding abuse. Some members, however, are allowed to carry out the work of renting back lising items, as well as activities that usually occur with financial leases. It is significant that the lease agreement must stress that the right of ownership over the lising object is transferred from the payer to the leaser by the expiry date on which the contract was concluded and after the payment of the total amount of the leased fee. What's even more important, and I think it's necessary to point out, it's that the leaser, we now mention the expansion of the lising object to the real estate, that the leaser should not mortgage the object of the lising. The draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act is also extremely important, because it is necessary to ensure a more stable, rational and safer business of investment funds, even now that we are still feeling it may be slightly lighter, but it is impacting the global financial crisis. We believe that it is very important to apply these provisions adequately, in order to allow the competent authorities to monitor the business of investment funds more effectively, and increasingly to be responsible for the behaviour of operators on the market. For the very end, I'm going to talk a little bit more about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act. We from the SVM and the minority parliamentary club feel that greater liberalisation of payment flows and payment of claims in foreign business is necessary. It is interesting that one of the proposals between these amendments and the additions that the issue of permits to carry out trading operations and controls is transferred from NBS to the Foreign Affairs Inspectorate and that this is done because of positive comparative practice, as well as what Mr. Vice-President of the Government mentioned, that the obligation to enter profits made by residents by carrying out investment works is lifted. I wondered why and when I was reading that it was one of the conditions of the World Trade Organisation so that the Republic of Serbia would become a member of that organisation, which it certainly stands for and the party I belong to, the SVM, of course we support the fulfillment of the terms of the World Trade Organisation. What is also significant is that the proposed changes allow the National Bank of Serbia, based on data supplied electronically by banks, to form a single register of foreign exchange accounts, as it already does with dinar accounts, and will therefore have insight into external debt and foreign claims. I thank the president who let me use my time. We sincerely hope that the appropriate application of these laws will in future really provide a financial sustainable system in the Republic of Serbia. That is why SVM MPs and the minority parliamentary group will support these proposals in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53198	National MP Mladen Grujic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53199	Madam President, Mr. Vice President, I've been thinking about what it is that binds these seven laws that are completely incompatible, and I've realized that you've actually taken the opportunity to gather them here and bring them together on the grounds that they're not interested in anyone in this country. Currently, there are 25 MPs in this room, representing 10% of the MPs in this assembly, and this speaks of interest in these laws. First of all, I'd like to tell you, especially you, Mr. Vice President, about the capital market law. I'd compliment him, I don't know who wrote it, but a great law that won't serve anything because we don't have a capital market in this country anymore. So what you brought here, this is for the make-up of a dead man, to be nice when we bury him. The best criterion for this is – everyone here in this assembly, I suppose, too, Mr. Djelic, remembers Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's fire and heart exposure a few weeks ago, when he gave his historic speech on the new government, and a day later, the Belgrade Stock Exchange reacted to his speech by dropping 2%. It is not a big deal, and this can be said of the investor's infidelity in Mr Cvetkovic's exposé, it is terrible that no Belgrade newspaper has brought any order on the relationship – Mr Cvetkovic's speech, the 2 per cent decline in the Belgrade Stock Exchange. No one paid attention to that. We have come to the situation that on the stock market you have four types of trading – small shareholders, who have wronged themselves and have not sold their stock in time, because actions are currently being bought from small shareholders that the majority of the company owners are trying to pay off to get off the stock market to withdraw. Then you have a one-bank trade run by four brokers amongst yourselves to create an illusion of a real price. Then you have a large group of unhappy people who believed in that fairy tale about one president, about his faithful second and a thousand euros, which is unfortunately a large group of people in Serbia and you have, that I am not wrong about the soul, a little trade in NIS and Belgrade Airport. But everything else is completely irrelevant. I don't need to ask you if you're aware because, knowing your biography and yourself, I know how much you'd have to worry about the fact that in the Belgrade Stock Exchange since there's been no private company and it's turned into a stock company. It wasn't any initial public offering, you see that you know his name, but then why don't we have it in place? So there was no initial public offering based on the existence of the stock market. Because the stock market is used to attract fresh capital. In Serbia, the stock market serves to hire relatives, party friends, there in that beautiful building in SIV III, then serves to break down and serve as someone to get hurt, and to have a vision of European society, like, I have actions and something is traded. No one has yet been able to attract fresh capital through the Belgrade Stock Exchange. That's what's terrible. I remember, Mr. Minister, I followed your work, in 2001 you gave a very similar speech today, where you told us about the future of the Belgrade Stock Exchange and how we should educate brokers. It was an interest in the future. Mothers dreamed of their children being brokers. The most esteemed Serbian sons-in-laws were brokers or bankers, and today, 10 years later, out of 40 brokerage houses only works 10, and brokers turned into juggernauts, cowards, into extinct craftsmen. They don't need anyone anymore, because now you're trading NIS through a mailbox of Post Office Savings. So you've come up with the whole thing in the last 10 years. We are today passing a law that, according to what the law says, is in the rank of European laws, but can you just explain to us what you are going to do with it, to whom will you apply this law when there is nothing left of the stock market? How are you going to find investors, get some Serbian company to go to the Belgrade Stock Exchange and put money into it? By passing this law you admit that we have had poorly defined laws, poorly defined rules of the game, crazy values committee, institutions that haven't done their jobs, and I'm afraid you've permanently destroyed trust in the financial market. Only a crazy man today in Serbia can invest in actions or private pension funds. I'm afraid we've managed to level the financial market with the business of Jazda and Dafina. It is my impression that you will pass this law and have 126 MPs, but I'm afraid he has arrived too late. Today I will listen to my colleagues' presentations, but I don't know if you've been paying attention that only 10 speakers have applied for the discussion. So we can say that this or no one is interested or that no one else has anything to say about it. I'll stop here and wait for the day to hear what the other colleagues have to say, so I'll get back to you at the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53200	The People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radeta is advertised by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53201	Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, I'm reporting on the basis of Article 27, you may end up saying it's not a classic violation of the Rules of Procedure, but please allow me to say what I wanted to say on the basis of this article. You sent a letter to the SRS parliamentary group on 9 February asking that we, our parliamentary group, be informed whether we are interested and who we want to determine to be a member of the Working Party for the discussion of the issue, and all of these changes that are related to these requirements that you have received from the EU. We informed you on February 11th, so two days after your letter, that we would be involved in this work and that I, Verica Radeta, was a member of our parliamentary group to be included in this task force. We learned from the media two or three days ago that there was a predicate of these amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs, that it was addressed to the Venice Commission, that the Venice Commission had made its remarks, etc. Yesterday I was here from a colleague at the DSS, spoke publicly about it, heard him mention a meeting. I asked later – when was that task force meeting in the first place? I have been informed that Mrs Nada Kolundzija, who is the head of this task force, informed at the meeting that the SRS parliamentary group has writtenly informed you that we do not want to participate in the work of this task force. So this is primarily for the public. We certainly want and we have something to say and we want to participate seriously and responsibly in this work. Just for the sake of the public and for your sake, let's see what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53202	Mrs. Radeta, I just had an initiative to the board of directors. My intelligence is not to form a task force. That's what the Administrative Committee did. The president of this task force is an MP for Hope Kolundji. As the task force has been working and the information that the presidents have been doing, I can't say about it at this point, but I'm going to get the information I need and I'm going to give it to you anyway. It's not a classic violation of the Rules of Procedure, you'll agree, but I'll do it since I'm responsible for the work and the permanent bodies and the formed, occasional bodies, I'll certainly have an insight and let you know about it. Mr. Vice President has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53203	Madam President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the capital markets around the world have had a major decline since 2008. Our country has not been spared and it is true that what was promising for the first two years, which is development, for example, of voluntary pension funds, has been stopped and the game is normal, where at one level of business, which is even 70% smaller than it was before the crisis, there is no room for 40 brokers, but for a smaller number. So there's something smaller in the son-in-law. They'll be in the future. But what's a fact, it's that in the past six to nine months, no one can, because that's the nature of these capital markets, fully predict which rhythm they will recover, essentially we see that all major stock exchanges in the past two or three quarters still go up and that's the case with the Belgrade Stock Exchange. What is visible is that this class of large world investors, who want to share in their domestic securities markets with some of the investments that will go into new markets and Serbia, is one of these new markets that is in the interest of a number of investors. The fact that two weeks ago our country's rating improved from BB minus to BB is something that will encourage a number of investors. We already have several such brokerage analyses that have responded not to these facts and that re-evaluate Serbia as a place to invest. But you're right. It is not good that 10 years after this transition, no significant company in Serbia has had an initial public offering. Part of the problem is regulation and this new law has paid great attention to this issue, so that domestic firms are able to benefit from these new benefits, that the recovery of the capital market, the re-interest of foreign investors, with something to say, a more favourable way of regulating these offers, finally leads to the emergence of our domestic companies. The goal is, we are still far from Serbia, Belgrade, being regional capital markets, to be a place where Serbian and regional firms find qualified professional investors, who will be able to invest and thus use Serbian savings for the benefit of Serbian businesses. Of course, that's the idea of all the countries in the world, that's why at this point only 30% of the total amount of savings invested in pension voluntary funds, for example, can be invested beyond our borders, but on the other hand we also have to provide charters of values that are safe and diverse enough for these pension funds to be invested in our country. The general idea that to that extent, and that measure is that there is a dose of diversification from the risk of investment on our own domestic market, our institutional investors from pension funds, insurance companies, banks, and all the way to individual investors are able to find what they need on our market. That's the idea. Of course, no one could predict such a crisis that, I remind you once again, had a financial trigger and as it first manifested itself on the capital market, no one should be surprised if the capital market is the last to recover. I would use this moment to say a few words, since several respected MPs have already talked about it, to expose some other benefits to this package of laws. As for the financial lease, at the request of those who have already used the benefits of the first version of this law for several years, I would not enter into details, I would just say that the key change is the possibility that the lising market will expand to immobilities. As a pandan of the change, it is now required to increase the minimum capital of the company from 100 to 500 000 euros. Of course, consumer protection is increasing. What has been done here is done with the consent and consultation of domestic consumer protection organisations. It was also a suitable way for a large number of our citizens to get to moving things. The same market because of the crisis is going through difficulties, but there are also the first signs of recovery. These changes and additions to the law will allow this recovery to be faster and that licking, as a modern form of financial relations, provides benefits for our economy now, because the expansion of immovableity is primarily beneficial for legal persons and for our businessmen. As far as these voluntary pension funds are concerned, I'd like to highlight a newspaper here, and it comes from a human situation. On the one hand, we say, this is what the honourable MP said earlier, that because of the demographic image it would be necessary for these young generations, with what would be a mandatory pension system, to provide funds through a voluntary system to make their old days dignified. Now it is said on one side – start the savings early, because if the savings lasts for a few decades, it won't take much savings every month to achieve a significant moment at the time of retirement. That's right. On the other hand, young people want the same thing to provide money for the first apartment. One important change here is the possibility that what is invested in a voluntary pension fund can be pawned, and that was not possible before, to buy the first apartment, so that the money that young couples put aside to have a safe future can be used during the duration and accumulation and savings, not to be "incarcerated", but can be used as a guarantee in the first apartment purchase process. Of course, reducing the fee from 2% to 1.25% is a way to further improve the functioning and attractiveness of voluntary pension funds. I must say, contrary to those who say voluntary pension funds are a solution to the pension problem in Serbia, it is simply not true. And this financial crisis has shown that nothing will ever completely replace the mandatory pension insurance system. Those who say that it is possible to relieve the burdens of the future generation simply do not tell the truth because at the moment when the capital market of the Krahiri, as it was in 2008 and 2009, what are we saying? Of course, we realize that it becomes a financial issue because it is not possible to imagine at all, especially in our country with our tradition, that suddenly because of the turmoil in a world capital market for a whole generation, two generations have no means of retirement. That doesn't mean there shouldn't be a right place for a voluntary retirement system. It should work to improve that part of our financial market and this financial market will provide benefits for future generations. This change I mentioned allows for the moment when the savings are accumulated to be used for that future for a decade, but at the same time immediately as a guarantee of what is important for young couples, which is buying the first apartment. Since I didn't talk about it at first, I'd like to add a few words about some seemingly purely technical laws. The high interest rate law is actually just a alignment with European standards and with the European methodology for recording inflation and interest rates. We move from indexation, the price rises to slightly higher consumer prices, and we are replacing the economic rate of NBS at the reference interest rate. I think it's the technical things that matter to us, but they don't seem to represent any breakthrough. The Law on Payments is another fruit of dialogue that existed between the economic community and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and today the National Assembly. What's important is that there will be no more legal obligation for the market to surrender day by day, that today's market be handed over day after day, but the obligation is introduced to be handed over in every seventh working day. That's something you've been looking for. There were a large number of our small merchants under a lot of pressure, big record costs, big business problems. Here's a change that will make business easier and cheaper. At the same time, this is already mentioned, and it is extremely important, as a second step in the transparency and security of business in Serbia, I would like to remind the honourable MPs that one of the changes before, if I am not mistaken, seven years that introduced the new Institute, which is the Agency for Business Registers, today our country is the only one in Europe where you can consult on the Internet free of charge all companies, to get acquainted with their administrative authorities, to consult their financial data, and with a certain fee to go on and get analyses. There was a lot of resistance to it, let's remember, especially courts that had one regular job, but now it's done transparently, professionally, and it is today a business asset in Serbia. What has long been sought is that the bonds are registered, that it is clear whether it is pawned, is not pawned, how many times, who has pawned it, who holds it, in what way. This is going to be a major breakthrough, a major breakthrough, when at the NBS, and on the NBS site we approach, for free for all companies in our country, it is visible whether there is a bond and in whose favor. In this way, we pay for business transparency, we provide predictable business conditions, and it seems to me to be something that will contribute to business. As there will be a change from economic offenses to criminal penalties. The law is nothing less, but it leads to faster justice in this area in payment traffic, not to waste too much time in some court proceedings but to go to criminal proceedings and to collect penalties where it is inevitable. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say that in this moment of gradual recovery of the financial market, the gradual emergence of new opportunities for more voluntary pension funds to emerge, to be re-developed, this time on immovable property, the possibility that through these amendments and the addition of foreign exchange law, payment services, these are all elements that will contribute to better business in our country, more in line with WTO rules and European standards. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53204	I thank Mr. Vice President. Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic has just informed me that the authorised representative at the points we are discussing today, alongside Vice-President Djelic, will also be Minister Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education and Science. We continue our work and I give my word to the MP, Jorgovanka Tabakovic. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his participation in the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53205	The vice president of the government saved himself, which he won't hear personally, but he can take the minutes from the session and listen. There are in every house our albums and photographs and some of them we look like ourselves, some of them we don't like ourselves, some of us like us, but there are photographs of us caught with the eye of the one who took our picture. This government has provided us today with such a photograph, the one that best takes care of the economy, the citizens and the financial sector. Of the seven laws to be spoken of in 20 minutes authorized, as far as we have, I have chosen to speak only of two laws. Very short on the height of the rate for the tight interest and on this real photo of the dossal authority, from 2000 to today, only on the Investment Funds Act. It is a general situation and it is no secret that many contracts in the economy are also concluded among citizens, shopping, in euros, in foreign currency. The legal gap, so as not to regulate the late payment of the debtor's debt to the trustee when the debt was expressed in euro, this authority had no intention of filling in. You have abolished the Institute of Price Monitoring and changed to consumer prices. So we got a high rate rate bill that's a law that just harmonizes statistical monitoring, one of the indicators that needs to measure how to punish someone who doesn't pay their commitment to the trustee in time. My dear gentlemen, I will repeat this, first of all, is done in a way that you will change one sentence in the VAT Act and say that the right to deduct tax has the one who paid the invoice to his supplier, not only who delivered the tax administration to receive the tax after deduction. For those who have obligations in the euro, and someone who is late in paying off such a commitment, the SNS as the Prescribing Club, Serbia has recommended that you account for the foreign currency demand at the reference rate prescribed by the central bank of the state of currency, plus 6% per year. This means, for euros – the Central European Bank, for other banks, for example, for dollars is the FED, plus 6% a year, where you equate in legal traffic debtors who owe foreign and dinar currency. I hope that you will have enough hearing to cover what is the problem of many and that you do not go to the protection of debtors in this way, especially since in the proposal for a solution I am delivering to you the position of the High Court of Commerce, which is balanced with the position of respected experts in this area. You have delivered it through the explanation of this amendment. I really don't expect the blindness of one of the failures this government has had to this day. What is most significant is that we are talking about the capital market and investment funds, financial leases and all that needs to be arranged something that hasn't had a real background in this country for a long time and a root for development. All right, I'm reading an approved interview, I'm going to tell the author in the end, the man who says I created the market for old foreign exchange savings, I participated in the creation of a central register, in writing the Charter of Values, in taking over, in voluntary pension funds, in investment funds and in public debt. I created a national housing insurance corporation, and I asked for the closure of the Action Fund. The author of an authorised interview is Nik Jovanovic, who at the moment is not interested in me as the man who was arrested and accused of Belgrade's film. I'm interested in being the author of all the financial laws that led to the National Savings Bank's "Perfect" robbery, to the abuse of actions through the stock fund. Its intention is, and this is the 2007 interview, realised – the Action Fund has been abolished and trade off the stock exchange, where Serbian citizens would have public training and insight into what actions are and why action should be traded, has been moved to the central register that is currently keeping the confidentiality of the data. If someone is trying to create a vision of expertise, I don't know what heavy matter, to trade securities of value, as it should be told citizens to simplify, like this – freely unexpended what remains of man or family, money, can be invested in savings, saved in dinars or foreign currency, can be invested in investment funds, voluntary pension funds and various kinds of savings or illegal elites, etc. Instead of saving citizens, which exists only as something preserved and yet unspent, because in order to save, someone has to work first, to earn, to support the family, to heal, to educate children, to pay rent, utility services, prices that grow like this, so that something remains for him, to show that he is not a man who is selfish and thinks of himself today, but someone who thinks about his age and that he earns little trade in actions. Is there so much savings capacity in this state of Serbia today that they would be invested right in investment funds, which we have been giving incredible and inadmissible tax reliefs from the crisis? So, the financial sector is normally largely tax-free in the 1980s, which sends a message – no, do not invest in production, invest in banks, savings and financial organisations. Today you're trying to get the wheat that you call investment funds in desert land. So, yes, the stock market is a necessity. Yes, investment funds are also needed, because investment funds invest directly in some production processes without banks, we count at no cost that we inherited from Jelasic, high mandatory reserves, games colorful lie, repro paper where only banks made money, and lost NBS and all those who had to, by law, to invest. You are now asking all people to, allegedly, invest in something that is Serbia's future as a production, and then to explain the law that you deliver, where the investment funds that you're giving to all disciplines and control, and I will explain why and control, you say -- a solution has been introduced that allows the assets of investment funds to be invested in charters of value issued by Castodi Bank, brokerage-distorship and authorized bank, above all, bearing in mind that it is attractive and liquid securities of value, and considering the expansion of investment opportunities of funds. While we are talking about re-industrialisation, about the need to export something to the European market, you are again directing investment funds to move accounts with the Castodi bank, which accounts for them, to mix money with the management company's investment funds, and to no longer know who has the money and invests and that, just because someone can acquire 20%, the management company can acquire 20% of the value of investment units of investment funds, thus changing the structure of funds. This changes the right of individual investors to decide where and how the funds will be invested. So, under the company of collecting savings and investment in production, you're actually legal solutions to allow money to invest in speculation. Mr. Nik Jovanovic boasted that he was the author of these and these laws. He didn't lie. The man told the truth. You are silent, and I must say the most important thing, that these laws are always written to the harm of the economy, to the harm of individual citizens and general prosperity, and that if they were earned by individuals, I will not name them, from an affair of the National Savings Bank, through all further affairs, and even the gentleman who earned the money so he could buy all the cinemas in Belgrade, that's what we know. You know what they say, you get killed for one crime, and how many crimes go unpunished. And Al Capone was arrested for not paying taxes to the state, and we all know what he was actually supposed to be convicted of and charged with. Why is that possible? It is possible because you translate our side of practice in the most negative way possible. So, the most risky investment, so-called. The hedge funds here are advertised as something completely regular and necessary. You're losing the difference between real investment funds, and one of them became the owner of the dairy industry and I'm not going to elaborate the conditionality to keep that production, the kind of slicing that was with the price of milk, who paid all his head, in a portable sense, I say, head, and also the minister's chair, why wasn't the milk, the increase in prices etc. Do you need to tell citizens a story in the Serbian desert that has been devastated by mistrust, the use of loan funds for Serbia's rebirth, by making pyramidal banks, for which in the end the state has taken responsibility and pays off old foreign exchange savings, not because it wanted to be good to citizens, but because it wanted individuals and profits in the kidnapping of SDK's assets, the widest network we've ever had, getting on the most cheapest and most valuable gift, at the same time, software to run these and such jobs as old foreign savings, to tell us - we're investing in future development, in industry and export. So investment funds are not here on one topic because they need to contribute to Serbia's development. This is not even an EU condition because those who write about this, those who take account of financial markets, say nicely, openly and clearly - in combination with high intelligence, a gift for mathematics, extreme selfishness and self-religion, with lack of sufficient powers of judgment, but also awareness and responsibility to our own people, we are all victims of the financial crisis, from America to Serbia, to a lesser extent. So, are we, are you really ready enough to give in to the insolent and incompetent, who build their own funds, the source of the earnings, which are in the past law, if you remember, in December, abolished that for each investment fund there is one person professionally and trained to manage it, rather than allow one man to manage several investment funds? Do you really think that, as a state, we're getting some effects from that? That's when I warned you. Some young people rent their diplomas to manage investment funds, as their time pharmacists to open a pharmacy. Who and in whose interest is this done? You're making unpunished stock market gambling, discrediting the stock market as something needed by Serbia, but it's developing to the extent that there's savings, a good regulation that controls these and these funds, which doesn't build a system of alleged control. In fact, you received in December, finally on 29 January, from the Committee on Papers of the value of warning that you do not adopt a regulation that does not comply with the Investment Funds Act, which gives way to discipline, control, which allows loans to maintain the level of capital needed for the existence of an investment fund. My lords, you understand yourself in this theory and remember only what Helmut Schmidt said – to prevent credit from creating banks, to prevent credits from buying shares, to prevent loans from creating investment funds, to be responsible for their citizens and not to rob them of savings so that stock brokers and speculators can gamble on their hard-saved and earned money. That's exactly what you're allowing. I'll take just one example. The Securities Commission warned you on 29 January 2009. On March 3rd, you persistently try to come to terms with the regulation that has been passed into the law, you passed it, and this law continues to lower the criteria for control and mixing, i.e. speculant actions of investment funds. What did we get? So what I'm saying is no secret information, you go to an Internet presentation of the Securities Commission and you just get all the data. What did we get in this behavior? Expressing a public reminder to the Investment Fund Management Society, Citadel Asset Management from Belgrade. I'm sorry Mr. Djelic isn't here, but his name is Citadel. A lot of jobs were received by Citadel, only Mrs. Maria Raseta warned that, in addition to the Law on Public Procurement, Citadel received all the consulting jobs in the government, and because of a certain lady who was skilled in recommending the Citadel Fund, otherwise an excellent student of the Faculty of Economics. When the co-operation broke, Mr Djelic founded "Altis Investment" and "Altis Capital" and started doing that kind of consulting services himself. To this day, I say responsibly, a guarantee for the water supply in Zubi's stream could not have been obtained if the current vice president with his presently new consulting house had not appeared as the man who would vouch for the job. Go ahead, sue me if I'm telling the truth. This "Citadel" group, as well as many similar, besides investment and advisory services, and you are now allowing this law to expand its activities to this kind of counselling, has received a warning that it does not respect the then liberal law on the situation and guaranteeing capital for investment funds. The public notice has been since 25 November 2010, as a reminder, because they did not act on the Commission's solution and did not comply with the law defined by the restriction that up to 20% of the assets of the investment fund can be invested in the shares of a limited liability society, etc. What's going on? If Citadel didn't answer, you're now bringing, I take Citadel as an example, not only of him, there are, among other things, no difference, so that they don't answer, you're now erasing that possibility of defining connected or unrelated persons at all, mixing the movement of capital between Castodi banks, investment funds and management companies at the moment when IMF's leading experts say that the financial sector needs to be taxed at all, that it needs to tax the security that each state provides them because the budget guarantees price and currency security and even have a proposal to tax them and balance items, just so that they don't overwrite what you want to do here. Don't you know that the biggest money laundering is right through the value paper store? Are we not the greatest evidence and witnesses to that? Isn't there a lot of scientific papers that treat that topic? So I'm saying that this photo of the government from 2000 to today is the most visible, most visible and speaks about who and in whose interest it works. These are not laws for citizens, these are laws for political clientele and we are against them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53206	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you are neither guilty nor obliged to suffer politically here today. The minister came, or vice-president of the government, to paint the white colorite state of the capital market in Serbia, investment funds, private, pension funds and went to Paris. We will now correct the wrong Drinas that he and his government colleagues have left behind. That's what we blame you for. You voted in the Government for the law, among other things, on the capital market, which I will mostly vote on in this presentation to speak of and I will remain on it. In a way, I'm going to look indirectly at the investment funds laws and everything else. What I have to notice at the very beginning is that we really won't live until the end of this government's term to have a minister appear who will paint a picture of a particular sector in this country as it is. You know, you come here and you say -- well, the capital market is underdeveloped, but then we start talking about what we're going to do. But let us look back and what have we done for our term of office? When it comes to the capital market, everything that the capital market implies to anyone in this government does not come to mind. You know, you can report as an MP of government today and say -- so they don't have citizens of trust, in the 1990s, pyramidal banks, Jezimir Vasiljevic, today they don't trust. It's been ten years since that regime ended. How far has the capital market in Serbia moved away? Who do citizens today have no confidence in? Property of investment funds in Serbia 12.5m euros, one private investor invested more in NIS actions, only one, more than all assets of investment funds in Serbia. It's a reality in Serbia. The reality in Serbia is that we have the lowest market capitalisation in the region. You know what your vice president said earlier? It is our intention to make Belgrade a regional stock exchange, leader. The property of the funds in Croatia is 400 euros per capita, after only two euros in Serbia, after 10 years of democratic power. We are so ready to be regional leaders when it comes to the capital market. On the other hand, in the media, we listen to the cries of the President of the Committee on Papers that the great president supports him to create a regional stock exchange, Croatia, Serbia and Slovenia, it is a brotherhood and friendship that is born again in Smedereva, to create a regional stock exchange that will not have as much property, opportunities and market capitalisation as there is only one in Budapest. I didn't happen to tell you that, Minister. The problem is that the Capital Market Act is not the subject of experience in Serbia, it's not an empirium, it's not something that came out of the need in Serbia to improve or to make a law that will suit the situation in the capital market in Serbia. You cannot change it because you will copy, Mr Radenkovic, European directives. You've had a vacuum for 10 years, which you can't load since 2000, and now you're going to build a new vacuum with this law for another 10 years. What was the practice and experience of countries in the environment, which are former socialist states, these experiences should have been applied. And they were acting as smart as you, so they installed the European legislation 10 years ago and today is not applicable, because their capital market in countries is not capable of doing so. How long will we learn from our own mistakes? Why do you do that, why you didn't bring any positive experiences from that world here, but only what's bad. That's one question. The SRS considers that and that is its programme definition, there is no, when it comes to the economy, anything more important than the capital market. I'll read you, Mr. Minister, one sentence and that's a sentence from the programming principles of the SRS of the 1990s. The capital market only has the legitimacy of impartiality, everything else is indemnity or overestimation. I just want to say what the relationship and attitude of the SRS towards the capital market is. We are a party that advocates a liberal market concept, but this is not the way to develop and affirm the capital market. It is not true that so far the legislation, which has been in force and which you will put out of force by adopting this law, did not give sufficient space for the capital market to be affirmed. In light of this law, it says nicely that the current law has provided a good basis for developing the capital market, but it is a fundamental problem that this foundation has been destroyed because it has not been the political interest of the authorities since 2000. So, in the 1990s, we can place a burden on you and ideological barriers to establishing a capital market, and there were really problems, but they were ideologically opposed to the concept of the 1990s, and they won on top of that. What did anyone defend and interfere with developing the capital market? Every chance they got in 2000, because they had a healthy economic substrate, they destroyed it. How did they destroy it? They destroyed through robbery and criminal privatisation, which is a prerequisite for the development of the capital market, private property. They've mutilated it, and on the other hand, it hasn't ended yet. Imagine, for 10 years, they haven't been able to privatize to bring an end. Then you have a public sector that is also not privatised, and not only is it not privatised, they have no strategy to do what with the public sector in Serbia, with public enterprises at the local level and ultimately public enterprises at the state level. In what relationship will it be owned by the state and placed on the market? It's all things they don't care about, they don't care about. They don't care because they had a political interest in mastering public enterprises. At the time, they were not interested in the capital market, they were not interested in how much they would take and what actions they would take to the market. What about the principles of corporate governance? They like to say it, the European forces in Serbia, and did they bring it into public enterprises? Is there transparency and visibility that Mr Djelic was talking about earlier? The law will ensure transparency in public enterprises, which at an annual level make up a billion euros in losses. Of course, they're looking to call it a public and private partnership. It all has some European note and tonality, and essentially double-naked, hollow like a grilled cheese. We are talking today about a law in which I believe neither the profession nor those who will apply it, half the concepts, criteria and categories don't understand it. Do you know how much for small shareholders in Serbia important futures, swags, forvards, marketmakers, etc. Now, I've been talking to my colleague, and in Kursumlia, they can't wait for this bill to be passed, Kursumli, Blace and Gythoraday to blossom as soon as this is adopted. The small shareholders of the company that the government has robbed in the last 10 years through the privatisation process. Look at the wonders, it comes to us in the assembly of laws by the prime minister who, during all that time, was the director of the Privatisation Agency, the finance minister and eventually advented to the prime minister, probably for the implemented privatisation process. You know what the law says? This law builds mechanisms to protect small shareholders. Do you know what the small shareholders in Serbia are famous for? They change every hour here at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, seeking their rights. On the side that the actions are of no value to them, they can't wait to get rid of what they have, but the problem is because there's no one to provide them, the state doesn't have a mechanism to force thugs out of privatisation processes to pay for their salaries, taxes, contributions, hot meals and everything else. There is no city in Serbia where you have no small shareholders left out. You want to protect them with this? You will not, because in order to protect them, you need political will, the fight against corruption and crime and true independence from informal centres of power, which we have heard control of power and control the government. This law provides for local self-government to issue securities. Based on what? Local self-government doesn't have property, imagine that. Imagine if you gave the local cabads a chance to do it. What would money be spent on that way? It's your trip to the EU. You see, Minister, there is no European directive that can correct political pathology, a criminal political nature. It doesn't exist. That's ridiculous. We do not deal with Serbia, we do not deal with our life and our reality. We're just listening here, you know what they're boasting: never again on the Belgrade Stock Exchange has been concluded. You know why, Minister? Because NIS and Aerodrom stocks are traded, not because healthy companies went to the Belgrade Stock Exchange or otherwise, it doesn't matter, not because they started looking for fresh and healthy capital on the stock market. It's primarily state records of value. Just state papers. Why? Because they're good interest and because it's safe. The other kind of stock market, the capital market, it almost doesn't exist, it's funny. We are at the bottom of the EU scale, the European continent. With 10 years of promoting European values, we're adopting this law, and now we've got these reports. We are passing the law because the European way is waiting. It is an obligation to adopt it to obtain candidate status eventually at the end of the year. Only then will the citizens of Kurzumli live better. That'll solve all their problems. But I simply like to repeat what Mr Krasic often says – the state is a serious thing, it can't be run like this. The capital market cannot be regulated as the political need or political ambition of the coalition in power, but rather as an expression of the need on the market and in the Serbian reality. I touched the NIS just now. Do you know what they wrote in the light of this law? That's why we resent you voting for this. So I don't read the whole paragraph, and this paragraph applies to 4.8, so you wrote, millions of citizens who became shareholders. Listen to this sentence, last in paragraph: "Most recently, newly-roasted shareholders have no knowledge in this area, no experience in action." Imagine the insolence to call the people you gave action to, no matter what they have rights to. First you lied to them to win, Boris Tadic said -- you'll get 1,000 euros, then you've given 1,000 dinars, and then you write a law calling them "new stockholders". Look at the stock market and the capital market, so you see whose funds are moving there and who's actually working there. You know the names you will encounter: Nicović, Kostic, Miskovic, etc. Why didn't the gentlemen of your government dare call them newly roasted or roasted or whatever they wanted to do to the rich? Why do not those who have conducted the privatisation process in Serbia call themselves the real name, but are 4.8 million citizens of newly-roasted shareholders, and now you will teach them, through forvardas, svalves, marketmakers, to deal with their actions, as if they are interested in life? They couldn't wait to sell what little you gave them so they could celebrate Christmas Eve. Mr. Minister, we live in the state of absurdity. Look at the powers of the Securities Commission, against most of whose members have filed criminal charges. What independence and independence do you provide for the Securities Committee with this law? From whom should they truly be independent? From the state, from the authorities or from the tycoon? Just look at the fact that they won't write a report, that they're giving information to the Anti-Corruption Council on privatisation procedures "Knjiza", Luke Belgrade and the "News" Company. Who are they really dependent on today, or on whom do we provide independence and independence today? The Securities Commission is asking the president to protect them, to give them support. A hundred times after this pay phone in this room, we have said, I repeat, ministers, the SRS suggests that you reanalyze the property cards of members of the Securities Commission before they enter the Commission and after, in the last few years, when the privatisation process has been carried out, or since its establishment. Isanalyse the property cards of the people sitting there, see how much authority you're giving them right now. They'll be entrusted 90% of their jobs through sublaws. You can think what's going to be done and how is it going to be done? Only birds know that. Minister, this is not good, not because Serbia does not need serious system law and not because Serbia does not need a regulated capital market, there is nothing that is a state that wants to develop economically more important than market and capital markets. It has to be a single country development locomotive. These can't be European directives. They can be makeupd and beautiful and enjoy their eloquence, I don't know what. But essentially, this small shareholders and the Serbian market will not do any good. In order for something to happen on the capital market, the point is to change power, bring about new economic policies, national awareness and responsible people have to do it. There are no people in Serbia's society, so keep that in mind. I hope it's not going to last much longer, honestly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53208	17,50 minutes have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53209	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, although the capital market is vital to the development of each economy, the recent years in Serbia have not been sufficiently fast and incomplete, and a muffled progress can be said. Progress is slow in part because the capital market cannot change much faster than the change in the overall system. The development is incomplete because there is not yet this set of instruments that exist on standard markets, and it is dimmed because the environment, high trading prices, poor labour practice and some unnecessary and high taxes hamper the development of the financial market. The capital market is one of four basic forms, in addition to goods, labour and services, connections between supply and demand, which is in the case of the capital market between savings and investments. Unlike the green market, the housing markets, which existed in the past decades in our country, the capital market in Serbia disappeared at the beginning of World War II and was not there for decades, and in the beginning it was a major problem that was further complicated by our country's release from the international community. The capital market law and a set of laws that are on the agenda today, and these system laws are also following this law, are a clear reflection of our country's definition of developing a financial market in Serbia and introducing solutions that are in line with those that exist in the EU. Unfortunately for those who think otherwise, at this point it might be possible to ask whether Serbia needs another law dealing with the capital market. The SRS-JS parliamentary group's stance is that the adoption of this law is a look at the future of the Serbian financial market and that Serbia will move from that land economy with a small number of players to an economy where the financial market plays a role such as those in the US, the EU and Japan. We can also say that this law, among other things, has the deepest definition of this, and probably the next parliamentary majority, for Serbia to be part of the European family, so that accepting EU legal flows is something that we will have to do sooner or later, in order to achieve our country's key and long-term goal. The Serbian financial market and the Belgrade Stock Exchange, as a place of organised trade or a multilateral trading platform, have gone through a wave of delisting and turning open stock companies into closed stock companies for the past few years. The dynamic development of investment funds, we could see this in the past period, pension funds and other institutional investors, which were to bring over the necessary depth of the financial market, was unfortunately stopped at the beginning of the fall of the Belgrade Stock Exchange in 2007. The situation in the Serbian financial market is not a situation of optimism at the moment, but it is a situation of real hopes that after two years of falling, after two years of taping in place, there will be a sustainable recovery. The new law correctly foresees the existing divisions in closed and open stock companies, with the right to trade in open companies' actions on an organised market. It is the delicacy of securities that has opened the need to engage in stock exchange trading, and, of course, the EU regulator does not know the division of closed and open stock companies, but rather the companies that are traded or not traded on a regulated market. It's common knowledge. Of course, on that regulated market is the individual decision of every company whether or not you will quote your actions on the market. To imagine this law as a magic wand that will speed up recovery overnight is unhealthy thinking because recovery is the result of investor expectations. A good law can provide investors with credible evidence of Serbia's direction to move. The stock market and the economy will not recover just because of this law. The expectations of investors depend on many factors, some of which are not in any way under our influence, and what we can offer as a legislative authority are good solutions that create good conditions for a good environment, for good investors to find their opportunity and make their profit in Serbia. Of course, and to offer them these solutions that will give clear and valid rules of play on our market. So, although it is not certain at this point that we will see a spectacular or even significant recovery of the financial market and dynamic growth and the development of pension funds and investment funds, this law is a safe deposit for the future, which will one day be capitalised in ways that we may not even foresee today. Another important reason for the adoption of this law is that some EU legislation is being adopted. The SPS, although seeing Serbia much earlier in the European family, when many of today's parties did not exist or were minor, does not want to use the argument that the adoption of certain laws is only good because such solutions exist in the EU. The reason is much deeper in nature. On the one hand, we need to harmonise some things with the EU, but in the field of the securities market in general. Harmonisation on the European plan has not been fully implemented. That's why we're doing this. However, the issue that is being raised – are we able to offer better quality solutions than those countries that have had multilateral trading platforms and vanbersan markets for the last 50 or 100 years? This doesn't mean we're not able to do it and just offer valid laws, but the experience of those whose solutions we're taking is empirical. It reflects the years of successful trading and the functioning of the players we want to develop, and is it wiser to listen to someone who has been through these childhood diseases or learn from their own mistakes? Intuitably, even if you don't have to know a lot, Mr. Stevanović, about the capital market to realize that this is the logic and way of thinking that will deprive us of possible unpleasantness. The law introduces five EU directives, covering all the most significant elements dealing with the capital market law. It is possible to make remarks that the law comes too soon. It's an argument that has a certain weight. But as the bad experience in some other sectors teaches us, time for adaptation can never be too much. If we have the opportunity to look proactively into the future of our country, it is much better to prepare ourselves for both games and for co-operation with the rules of the club whose member we will become. Until now, it has often been an observation that laws are passed, and then there is not enough time to adapt and things like that. With this law, we are going to meet the challenges and great opportunities that will bring us the development of the capital market, and especially the development of the capital market when we are in the EU. As in a rare sphere, we prepare on time, not just in words, but in the creation of institutional infrastructure. The last important question raised by a clear answer – who needs what more at this point? Despite our patriotism, despite our faith in our potential, we are still a statistical error at the level of Europe when it comes to the capital market and less than that. We will be better off if the rules of the game known to large players from EU countries rule here, and thus we can encourage the inflow of capital that will come on a long term in Serbia, not as has been the case so far, to be the target of speculative capital. What are the key papers this law makes? If we start from the very redefining of basic participants, the Capital Market Act defines financial instruments, transferable securities from values, investment companies, investment and additional investment services, investment advice, multilateral trading platform, regulated market, OTC market, qualified investors, control of insider information, public offering and some other concepts in a precise way, and tax exemptions are listed. The law defines in detail a public offering, exceptions to the obligation to publish a prospectus. The application procedure for the approval of the prospectus, as well as the publication of the approved prospectus, has been laid down. The aim of the capital market law is, among other things, greater investor protection and market liberalisation, which I hope is of interest to all of us. The biggest changes adopted by this law are a different structured capital market, the introduction of the already mentioned concept of a multilateral trading platform and the possibility of the purchase of shares being made through an open capital market, as well as the direct purchase of securities from the values between stakeholders, with the obligation to record it in the central register, and everything again is in line with EU directives. The open capital market and other types of vanbersan trade are normal additions to multilateral trading platforms. There have been many objections concerning forcing investors to trade on the stock market. If our Constitution in Article 58 guarantees the right and the enjoyment of property rights, and the aim of the founder is to make the mentioned restrictions an exception, it is very important to enable charter owners of value to freely enjoy the right to their actions. This, in any case, means enabling the owners of the shares to transfer property to the multilateral trading platform, i.e. through a direct contract and the conclusion of the transfer contract, although in practice this issue is not crucial for the development of the financial market, even though it shows the relationship of the legislator to private property. Furthermore, a multilateral trading platform and brokers gain competition, which is very good, in the informal market, which is why they need to increase the quality of their services. The law allows investor protection, which is good, I say again, because we have a timely intervention in the case of inadequate and illegal actions, and there will be an increased obligation to report on the business of the issuers of shares on the market, which means that there are periods of spending from year to quarter, so that all interested investors have timely information on whether to invest in the company. Here you can directly knock on the door of one of the biggest problems in the securities trade, which is the lack of confidence in business information. Unfortunately, the usual practice with us was that companies do, buy, iron the balances, so that based on the audit reports on the company's business, there's not much to be concluded. If you publish financial reports once a year, except for companies on the stock market, where it is mandatory, of course, we all know that, three months of reporting, which currently contains a few companies, quarterly reporting can make creative accounting practices less powerful. When I say creative accounting, this is what has been in practice so far, because it's much harder to hide bad and in some cases "good performances". The protection of investors is closely linked to the ban on manipulative and other illicit activities related to the purchase and sale of securities of value. The concept of insider information is defined, as well as the circle of face and responsibility of persons who possess insider information. It is prescribed what is considered to be market manipulation in accordance with the Market Abuse Directive. The new law achieves a high degree of compliance with international principles, above all that the Securities Commission is given, as a supervisory authority, a higher degree of independence. This should very much remove problems in the work of the Commission that have been following it so far, and you are well aware of all the problems in the past. One of the good solutions is that the provisions of this law provide in an appropriate manner for the possibility that the property charters of the value of domestic issuers may be offered publicly on the foreign market, provided that the issuer is granted the publication of proposals for the public offering and for the inclusion of securities of values on the regulated market, i.e. a multilateral trading platform in the Republic. In that case, a timely notification shall be made to the Commission. Although it is still unrealistic to expect this to lead to a revolutionary reduction in the costs of funding domestic enterprises in the short term, this solution has great potential and is another major step in Serbia's EU integration. The law provides for the introduction of a fund for investor protection, which we reiterate as positive, because the instruments are reduced when the risk is in the event of bankruptcy and other inability to meet the obligation on clients from the investment investment investment. Broker companies will be able to manage client accounts, but clients will be able to decide who will run the account, whether it will be run by a bank or by an investment company. The supervision of investment companies is being introduced on the basis of differences and the scope of their business. This is also meaningful, because there is no reason to treat closed and open investment funds in the same way, and especially to apply the same rules to large and small players. Finally, if we are to return to the relationship between the system and its parts, the capital market is likely to be at least a change in parts of the regulation being good, and this law is going in that direction. Someone might ask a question, but we've already heard there's a question about where there's an ordinary citizen's interest. An ordinary citizen of Serbia, who doesn't care too much about the system laws in the domain of the functioning of the financial market, can say that it is in many ways of interest. This law is the basis on which some things will develop more easily, as the development in Serbia does not go at the pace we would all like. Private pensions as a complement to state pensions, investment funds as an alternative to bank savings, mutual funds as a new chance of funding, real estate funds as a means of solving housing problems, are all things that touch citizens and can change life for the better. So this law is part of a story about a country that creates opportunities and will be a safe place for potential investment. Given the arguments that I made on behalf of the SPS-JS Parliament Club, I can only conclude that supporting this law is not a matter of the majority of parliament, but of one of the issues on which there should be a broader consensus. This law deals with issues that concern not only these congregational majority. The law certainly is not ideal, because at this point we cannot predict what will be the tenth in five or ten years, but I dare say it is of its own quality and in a way that is not lagging behind the legal regulations of the EU and other developed countries. I'm going to use the remaining time to say the advantages of these laws that are within this item of the agenda. I have to say that what is positive when it comes to the law on changes and additions to the Law on Payments, what reduces the economy of Serbia, and according to all the data we have, the economy is losing close to five billion a year due to its one-day obligation to hand over the market. These amendments to the law extend this to seven days, which is positive. There are some questions, and that's what we'll do when it's in particular, about the cesiums and other things when the companies are in a blockade, but the explanation says it's going to be regulated. The application is delayed after two years. I don't understand why applying the ban on cesium, assignation and the rest of the company's business to avoid paying some of its obligations, why is it delayed for two years? I think that's necessary as soon as possible in order to regulate our market. When it comes to financial leases, what our citizens are interested in is that now the banks will get their own competition because they will also be able to buy apartments on the lease. That's one advantage. So there's going to be one increase in investment in construction. We can say that when the basic funds started to be purchased through the lising, then the purchase of these fixed assets from the very beginning was over three billion euros. When it comes to pension funds, I can say that the development of voluntary pension funds contributes to the economic and social stability of our country, which is also the policy of my party from which I come. This was confirmed by the experiences of developed countries. The main reason for amending and supplementing the law on voluntary pension funds is to minimise the negative effects of the global financial crisis, to establish stable sustainable growth in the management of the governance structure of the management society, i.e. Better risk management, so to speak. Among the planned changes is that the property of a member of the fund will be able to be used in the purchase of the first apartment, which is very positive, it is of interest to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you. Thank you for your attention. I'll get a chance when we talk in detail to get involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53210	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has been reported. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Dejan Radenkovic did say your name, but I think he mentioned you for good, but to prove that I don't mind when representatives of the ruling majority and opposition agree on how to get a replica, I give you my word. [[Dear Stevanovic, from the place: Can I get a replica? He mentioned me.]] The word has an MP Dragan Stevanovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53211	I thank you for commending me. Mr. Radenkovic, every serious state is passing laws so that it can make its projection within the next five to ten years. Only in your government are laws passed without knowing what will happen in the next five to ten years. What I wanted to tell you, what your story led me to, is something else. Smart is good, even if it's later. The fact that you remembered after 15 years because you recognize European values, quality and their importance can be appreciated by DS and Boris Tadic. It's completely irrelevant to us. It is very distasteful for someone who belongs to socialist ideology to lecture on the capital market, and he had quite a number of years to show his knowledge and evaluation of the capital market directly and specifically in practice. As it was in the '90s, we had an ideological problem with you to convince you that it was good and that it should be done. What's the point of the whole story is that you don't need to read our laws, we read the laws. On the basis of this story, we are discussing these laws. We haven't heard anything from what they're going to do and how this law is going to work on the small shareholders who have been disproved by the power of which you are now part. With what will those companies that have been destroyed and the companies that have been destroyed go out to the capital market that you will settle according to European standards? Mr. Radenkovic, this country has so far had a law that regulated this area, but it neither respected nor affirmed the capital market on the basis of it. This law will not eliminate problems that have destroyed the capital market in Serbia. Unfortunately, in 2008, you accepted to be part of the concept that this healthy substrate destroyed economically and therefore today you have as much responsibility as they do for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53212	The speech is attended by MP Milan Lapcevic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53213	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have seven financial laws on the capital market, foreign exchange business, investment funds, financial leases, additions to the law on the level of tight interest rates, voluntary pension funds and payment traffic. Of course, this many laws in one debate make it impossible for us all to talk about quality for 20 minutes. I'll only limit myself to two aspects. These are amendments to the Law on the height of tight interest and amendments to the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and pension plans. In a law which changes the rates of tight interest, these are more technical things, that the level of the tightening interest rate is no longer determined on the basis of the rise in prices to a little, but on the basis of consumer prices because of their different leadership. It is said that tight interest rates will be determined in the future at a monthly level of 0.5% higher than consumer prices. Given that these consumer prices, especially in the last few months, have gone so far into the sky, it is not good for the citizens of Serbia. There is a very interesting performance, where the state tries, or legal solutions obliges citizens to pay everything they owe to the state within a certain time limit. For each delay, they have to pay extra interest with tight interest rates, which in the absence of a number of cases, almost as a rule, debts that are actually small in the beginning in a few months increase in astronomical figures, to practically bring citizens into a debt slavery that has been going on for years and that citizens absolutely cannot pay off. There are countless such examples. One of the characteristic examples is the debt to spent electricity. There is a characteristic example of the city of Nis and the environment, which due to earlier political excursions and thoughtless statements is causing a problem with huge debts for electricity that have grown so much over ten to 15 years, that practically a huge number of people have fallen into debt slavery and there is almost no way that huge debts can be paid, because the original debts for spent electricity, through valorisation and application of tight interest, have gone to heaven, have become tenfolded. Practically, for the field of electrical electricity, the public owes more than seven billion dinars. More than five billion dinars of these seven billion are interest rates, whether they are regular, whether they are tight, which brings the number of citizens into an unexplainable situation, that they cannot pay off huge debts that sometimes move to hundreds of thousands of dinars, even over a million dinars. For the average family, which and if there is someone employed with a 40,000 dinar income, it is almost impossible for the mission to regularly finance the obligations it has, to pay the utility costs and what is due for electricity. In those debts, I said, almost 80% of the waste is on interest. This problem is so insecure that it is impossible, nor is it realistic that these debts will be almost charged, simply, the economic situation is so difficult that there is no way except for the real conversion of kilowatts and payments at some normal, at current prices, without the tight interest. A different solution is unsustainable. On the other hand, we have examples, countless, again that speak the opposite, which do not apply to citizens, but for that state does not pay for the penalty. The other day, it was reportedly the end of a strike on the way to strike because the state owed them huge money for the work done. This is the question – will the state pay interest on those debts? How much of these debts have been devalued in the meantime? The state orders a certain job and goes into a certain investment, calls for a tender. Of course, private firms report that they're doing it, offering certain offers for the job. When you get a job, that company has to take credit to start doing that job. After the end of the job, after four, five, six months, depending on what business it is, invoices are being made towards the state. At the same time, VAT has to be paid, because if VAT is not paid, it goes into crime. Also, whoever worked has to take credit to pay the VAT to the state, and the state will pay him when he has the money. There were not a small number of cases that these debts were paid after six months or a year, and then you see how hurtful these claims were, either by the growth of the euro or by the interest of the banks, because it was the one who asked for a loan to pay the VAT to the state or to do the job for the state that had to be owed to the bank and to pay huge interest on that basis. On the contrary, it does not apply that the company has charged its interest claims. Whoever sues with the state usually disqualifies himself that tomorrow he can do another job with that same country. Unfortunately, in this country, the only employer is exactly the budget and state institutions. People have been practically brought into an unexplainable situation, that they have to do jobs for the state, and that in the absence of a number of cases they suffer damage, and that such legal regulations for them, although theoretically possible, are practically inadmissible. People will disqualify themselves by applying solutions and suing the state to claim damages and tighten interest on debts. As for the Law amending the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and Pension Plans, Serbia really needs a fundamental reform of the pension system. In this sense, these amendments to the law offer certain solutions, but those solutions will certainly not solve the huge problems that lie in this sector. By creating the current ruling coalition three years ago, the requirement of a coalition within the ruling coalition was for average pensions to be at least 70% of the average salary, which, of course, did not happen after these three years. On the contrary, the average pensions used to be around 240 euros, and today they are around 210 euros. If it is added that consumer prices and the exchange rate of the euro, the consumer basket, the level of utility prices went far beyond what was three years ago, it is clear what the pensioners are in today and how they survive. Unfortunately, Serbia is an old country. The average age is over 42 years. What's the biggest problem is that the number of employees and the number of pensioners is almost the same. In Serbia, according to the latest data, there are a million and 623,000 pensioners and barely more than a million and 730,000 employees. So a pensioner comes to one of the employees. When this is added to the fact that among these 1,730,000 employees is about 450 thousand people working in the state sector, in various places, whether it's the state administration or whether it's the judiciary, the police, the military, health care, education, however, those users, those employees who receive salaries from the budget, then it's clear how much the burden of people working in the real sector is. They must earn their own salary by their work, pay taxes to the state, earn pensions for one pensioner and earn salaries for those who work in the state sector. It's really a huge burden for the real sector, and it's simply unsustainable in the long run. The total pension fund is touched by 40% from the state budget, which certainly cannot be sustainable in the longer term and the basic reform of the pension system is something that is necessary, the harmonisation of the minimum and the highest pensions is necessary, because today you have the highest pensions of over 100,000 dinars and the lowest that move around 8,000 dinars, and in principle they all have the same or similar needs. The average consumer basket, according to union data, is moving about 50,000 dinars. Now imagine a pensioner who has to pay all the utility and survive with eight or an average pension of 20,000 dinars, it's simply an impossible mission. Therefore, it is no harm that, unfortunately, in Serbia in the 21st century, we have not had a number of people deciding, especially among the pensioners, to cover their lives because they do not live the life that a man is worthy of, and unfortunately lately we have witnessed that we hear in the media that people are starving because their incomes are neither such nor have any or are such incomes that they cannot provide themselves with a basic existence. Yesterday there was an earthquake story from my city, where a man, without a job that he lost ten years ago, had to keep his dead mother in the chapel for 40 days because he had no money to bury her, and he asked the state for help to bury her. Simply, as an illustration of a difficult social situation in Serbia. In addition to these things, which are so obvious, it should also be mentioned that voluntary pension funds are a way for people to think in the long run about their age and that the profits they have are part of the money to pay into voluntary pension funds, however, given that the average salaries are more than 100 euros less than they were in 2008 and that they are among the lowest in Europe, the question is how much this law can help people who are working today to separate and can set aside to welcome a peaceful age tomorrow and spend part of the money to finish their century with dignity. On the other hand, the state is trying in every way possible to introduce some new taxes and new taxes, so last year it was introduced so-called. organic tax or environmental tax paid by all manufacturers and traders, or importers of white technique. The reason for this was that this tax must be paid because we have a huge problem with recycling old white equipment and this tax is on average about 10% of the price of the product. Fifteen days ago, the government increased that fee by about 12%, and it is reliable that the vast majority of those who have to pay these taxes are not doing so, so it would be very good to know the information and hear from the government's representatives - who pays those taxes, whether we have the income structure of that tax, what these money is spent on, and which of the importers, i.e. the producer, avoids paying these taxes. As long as we're going to talk more about how they're privileged, have good relations with the government and the authorities and don't have to pay what the state says, and those other people who aren't willing to pay and, of course, that their product prices are higher, that they're less competitive and that, of course, they fail on the market? Finally, all of these citizens have to pay, either over the price, either by tax, which is another icon in a series of general pictures of the state and the burdens citizens have to bear to support such an expensive state. The state is too expensive for us. Our economy is too weak. For this kind of cost, a very small number of people are working in the real sector to be able to support both the overpriced administration and this large number of pensioners, and it is necessary, regardless of whether the elections will take place in a month, two or a year, anyone who will be able to form a new government tomorrow will have to face these problems seriously and realistically tell people what the state of the country is, that they will no longer be distracted by overcoming the problems by borrowing each time they have a hole in the budget, but they will have to bring some things out clearly into sight and making a cut. To stop the senseless borrowing of future generations because it does not lead to anything and to tighten the belt, to reduce the state administration, and to encourage the real sector, so that we can have, in some foreseeable period, the growth of general standards and real pensions that will be paid out of real funds, rather than being encouraged by a huge intervention from the state budget. The Democratic Party of Serbia has many objections to all these proposed solutions and, of course, there is no reason to support such laws, but it shows that there are still many problems to work on, so that as a state and as a people we can live with dignity and that perhaps tomorrow, when we settle our relations, we can think cold heads about whether the EU is our priority pair of excellencies and whether we enter it or not, depending on our own interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53214	Seventeen minutes and 30 seconds have been used by an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups report for a word to exercise their right under Article 96? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted by PUPS parliamentary groups, DSS, ZES, Advanced Serbia and the SRS. We move to a debate according to the statements for the word and in accordance with Article 27, because of the obligations that MP Zoran Krasic has, he receives a word before MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53215	Thank you so much for meeting me. It's really hard when a large number of laws are put on the same agenda. It must be taken care not to repeat what the predecessors said, but as a guide to the MPs, I would recommend what Dragan Stevanovic said on behalf of the SRS and Mladen Grujic quite accurately told the state of the financial market in the Republic of Serbia. I'd go along with these laws, since we have some limited time. You see, it's not clear to me at all why the Financial Lising Act is changing and why you're inserting immovableities as a subject of financial lease. However, I must point out that practice has shown the lack of that law, so through these changes and additions it is likely that 80% of the laws have been changed to new members and that there are some members who have been responding to the SRS amendments since 2003. In that building we passed this law and then we pointed to all these remarks and, of course, in practice, it proved to be what these objections are and therefore it is no wonder that this situation needs to be fixed, to do this part, to preserve those banks that provide the means of risk. And these dots you put together are actually bank points. There are no users here, consumers, citizens, here are talking about banks, how to protect their capital, how to increase their capital, how to allow them to do some jobs that originally cannot work according to the titles of these laws. In all these regulations that we're changing. So, what was 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 when these laws were first passed by the proposings, the government's representative at the time was mostly Mr Dinkic seems to me, then told these jobs are mainly investment funds. These jobs can't do a directive, forbidden, etc. The business specification, etc., now it's all coming back, and now we basically have banks and parabanks. The investment fund is a parabank. Institutions dealing with financial leases are also quasibanks. If we go to this voluntary pension-involvement insurance essentially, banking business appears. Why? Because this market cannot allow for a single quality business either when it comes to licking, or when it comes to the investment fund, or when it comes to voluntary pension-inhabitation insurance. Djelic also hit a sentence just before – all those who feel that voluntary pension-involvement insurance can replace necessarily in grave error, it is impossible. That's some addition, it's one of the sub-types of an investment fund or something wider savings. And we're talking about saving. Now we are in a situation where the state reacts differently in almost identical situations when it comes to guarantees. You remember a few years ago a regulation has been amended under which all real estate contracts must be registered with the competent court. Yesterday we had a point of the agenda public register, no more registries, now it's going to go to public records, and by the time it gets to the public register, in the meantime there's a property conversion going on, all those who took 50 and over years to rent agricultural land, they're going to make a conversion, it doesn't matter what land and overnight they're going to become owners. So this country has made it possible for someone to overcome the individual wealth personally that exceeds the European standard. So I'm joking a little bit, but it's really big, because you're waiting for this signature in October, November, December, let me sign it right now. What would my signature mean? All European standards have been implemented in Serbia. We've got organized crime, we've got drugs, we've got prostitution, we've got kinks, we've got parades, we've got no army, we've got a defense minister, we've got all the standards that Brussels has been looking for. This signature you're talking about, it's a pure mirage. In the desert when people are thirsty, they see oasis, water, and they go through the desert, go and go, until they die. That's right in Serbia, citizens believe, go and go, and when they're about to die, they'll say, where they're dying, tomorrow we wanted to take you into the EU. Now we have a problem as many people believe? It's illusory to tell you about the balance sheet of financial organisations, so the balances of investment funds, so voluntary pension-involvement societies, which is where they've overcome banks, so why financial leases are potential, and bank credit, it's all the same story, and they're the same players. Everything comes from the Vienna Agreement. With the Vienna agreement, the government accepted that foreign banks in our country each year amounted to a guaranteed sum of capital, which was once 450m euros, that is some profit that is transferred, carried abroad, and if it is not exported in that amount, since the entire financial system is in the hands of foreigners, they can block the state in 16 seconds. That's the whole story. What was a European standard a few years ago is no longer, now some new European standard is going on, just depends on how Mr Djelic will use the tonality to say – let's go, come on, and now he's cut down, because he knows very well that the pen has worn out. I didn't want to read to you this data from the Ministry of Finance, revenue and expenditure under the Budget Law, Table Two, Table Three, Table Four, because all the data you give on deficits, on minuses, I didn't want to read to you what the public debt situation is on 31 March 2011, because we all know that this is increasing, both internally and externally, and both directly and indirectly, and these are the negative consequences that are going to haunt us because of this borrowing policy. But let me tell you a little bit about something, to remind you, that it's not good when you're considering a bill, and you're counting on 126 not to include reasonable thinking about the problem, but the fact that it's physically in the air of 126 hands, then you come into an abnormal situation. Mrs. Comic, I wasn't wrong if I said Mrs. Comic, as if I said Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, and why? We in this country have a Securities Committee. Do you know that some members of that commission have expired their mandate a long time ago? We can't conduct the procedure to choose, and now be careful, what a mirage is, should be according to the law of guarantee, let's say I take the Investment Funds Act, and now you tell me what a guarantee it is, and what a message it is when you call, a guarantee of the protection of the right of regulation of traffic, security is a commission and you think you finished the job, then someone reminds you, wait, we have a commission that's problematic from the point of view of legality and legitimacy. I don't want to bother you. We've talked about open funds and so on. Only two investment funds record growth. You know what it is? The one he almost celebrated, there's a reason. Now somebody's gonna think, we need them, because when the state gets into some kind of trouble, then the state is commercially in charge of these banks, and that's a big benefit. We're not in charge of the IMF, but at the Bank of Intect, there's no such thing as not to mention Credi Agrikol's bank, where he had big shares, but it's going to end Dacic. Look, that's one story, and reality is completely different. Who protects himself through investment funds, not to talk about advantages, why it's important for a man to be in an investment fund, to have some investment units, but as an individual through brokerage houses to buy paper from value on the market. That's what 0.01% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do, that's what those who have money do. In Serbia, it is a standard that people do not have money, the majority of citizens do not have money. Most citizens aren't interested in the Investment Funds Act, but they're interested in the part where someone doesn't pick up the Kajmak. Furthermore, around the Voluntary Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, only some strong companies have managed to get in with their workers on a voluntary pension-involvement plan, so let them have two and three, and these are selected companies, over-rich companies. So the question is, if the banking system goes into some kind of control, there's a bad balance, let's give some space to these, and now there's an empty story. In the principle debate, we're not gonna talk about it. That's where you made a mistake, and you made a lot of mistakes. In the case of the Payment Act, enter the register of bonds. Why are you doing this? Why didn't you give it to a private contractor? Why are you making something special now? Be careful, the register will be the same as the register in the court for the traffic of fixed contracts. So it's spinning the same thing. Why? I don't want anyone to think of it. In the case of tight interest, please, how is it possible that the state is charging more interest than the banks are charging? Explain to me, please, how is that possible? You know what problems you'll have with these new tight interest rates? You think the formula has changed if you have thrown above the fraction prices to a little bit with consumer prices or that control provision no more than 10% of the National Bank reference rate? When your importers play and you're taking a course, do you know what's going to happen on our market? I don't want to tell you about it. There's nothing wrong with what you've done. No problem will solve it. No one will be better off tomorrow when these laws are passed. You know that, not specifically you who are present, the bankers who command, the merchants of the human soul, the Bank of Intects. The banks here are more successful than where their headquarters is. How is it possible in this territory of poor, troubled Serbia, which does not have some production, or is it successfully disguised to launder large pairs across these so-called banks here with us? You don't even have direct payments between Serbia and Montenegro, but it goes through the German bank, within the same bank, Erste or I don't know what. We're talking about some epic results! You are probably conditioned, I see that you are using the EU and NATO Pact less and less as arguments, because it does not help, because more than 70% of citizens do not want to hear about the EU and NATO Pact, and you have managed to level the number of employees and the number of pensioners and your popularity is growing. Read the paper, you're getting popular, it's just amazing. Your popularity has increased so much that half of Croatia would probably vote for you. Why? Their investment funds are holding everything with us. Like their trade here, so are their banks, so is their capital. When you bring it, Ziko, the law of restitution, when you turn around, you will see that you have nothing to return. Already someone in the democratic process, with respect for human rights, security, courting Brussels, sold out, and then they can sell out tractors, because there's no country to process. Smartness in the head, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are not these insignificant laws, these are very important laws. If any of these laws have no direct consequences, then they will have indirect consequences. When it comes to indirect consequences, then it just changes the timing, not today, but in a few days. There lies this great danger, because blindly meeting the conditions of Brussels, we live by the Brussels conditions and something bad is going on, and the people are expecting something better. There's no better, people. With these and this policy, there's no better. There's got to be a policy change. It can't be "Europe has no alternative" anymore, so everything. Say "Life in Serbia has no alternative", "Citizens of the Republic of Serbia have no alternative", "Serbia has no alternative". If you can't listen to me, then look at Novak Djokovic on the ground and Vojislav Seselj in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53216	1615 minutes of MP time was used. Before I give my word to MP Konstantin Arsenovic, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I would just like to inform you that we will be working today until the debate is over on a joint principled search of the points that are under way. The estimate of the time we need to work, from this point on, is about two hours, so there's a chance we can work without a break, if that's okay with you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 87, I have an obligation to take a break at 14 o'clock. Only with the consent of the present can we work without a break. About 15.00 to 3:30 would be finished work. MPs have the right to rest, it's an obligation, and I can't decide. If any of you want to take a break... National MP Zika Gojkovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53217	Replica, because I've been called.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53218	You've been given your word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53219	I'll answer very briefly, because on the agenda there's no restitution topic. I just want a few sentences to explain. For the SPO restitution...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53220	People's MP, you've been given your word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53221	I got a line, because Mr. Krasic called me by name and last name, as far as I could understand. I don't suppose there's another Zika Gojkovic in favour of restitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53222	MP Zorana Krasic, did you mention in the negative context of MP Zika Gojkovic? No, you're not. Unfortunately, I have no reason to give you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53223	Can I get the right to a replica, because it's said my name in a context I can't accept, to explain in two sentences why it's said?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53224	Did you mention MP Zika Gojkovic in a negative context? Right on line, MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53225	If you'd given me your word, it would have been over by now. I just want to say that for the SPO the topic of restitution is not just a correction of past injustice, but an opportunity to end up with a system based on a war crime and finally put an end to the communist heritage. This has nothing to do with the EU, although it is, unfortunately, one of the EU's requirements, to get in line with normal countries that solve their problems, which are not waiting for someone else to solve their problems. Unfortunately, that's something this country inherited and hasn't solved yet. Except that it is necessary for us to enter the EU, the adoption of this law is also necessary to finally create such a national unity and national reconciliation in our people, which the SPO stands for. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53226	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53227	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within this set of laws, in the time available of six minutes, as many MPs as there are, I will refer only to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and pension plans. My predecessor, Đuric, gave a detailed explanation and position of PUPS regarding the amendment and addition of this law and we support it and we will vote for it in the voting day. What I want to stress in my brief discussion is the desire to try in some way to affirm the need for such a law and to understand citizens that they are given the chance to, on the basis of their opportunities, be it a kind of savings, to allocate certain resources that they can use and which would be useful to them in that third lifetime. Surely there are a lot of ambiguities here, problems and above all understanding of this law, and that is why it needs to be affirmed, especially because our people do not have a habit of thinking about their perspective, their future and how they will live in old age. This is not a substitute, it should be pointed out in particular, that this law has no purpose or purpose to replace the existing state system of pension and disability insurance. It remains stable, but it makes one additional measure that, on the basis of voluntary allocation of funds, a man can provide himself with some means of age. There's a lot of misunderstanding, that's for sure. We don't have that experience, and there may be some problems in the functioning of the pension funds themselves. I think it's a good thing this law provides, maybe even more stringent to predict, this regular control of the financial society's operations to manage these funds, because that is the essence of how these funds are properly used. What's the most important? The most important thing is to try to preserve their real value, which would give man what he invested in an adequate way and gain. This is the basic problem and this is the problem – the preservation of the basic substance of the value of the savings or savings, because it is a long period of 20-30 years, so the real question is whether, say, five thousand today's dinars and what is it worth over 30 years? But it will certainly depend on the success of business and new societies themselves to deal with these affairs. Hence, I think that this control and proper use of the funds invested in voluntary pension funds will be extremely important that they are properly directed and properly used, so that there are no abuses. In this current situation, when we see the situation of pensioners, and let me remind you, the current state pension system that Bismark has still defined as generational solidarity, he said then that he will function well, on his own, without special and other funds, until that moment until the relationship of employees and pensioners falls below 1:3. We are at that stage, not just our country, but almost the whole world. Therefore, it becomes a serious problem of functioning the state pension system and therefore needs to look for additional measures that will create a certain safety of the lives of people of the third age. This is what the essence of this law and it in some way needs to be affirmed by all those citizens who can afford it. That's where the problem remains that in this situation very few people will be able to do it, because otherwise the salaries are small, to afford themselves. We hope that the economic situation will be better and that an increasing number of people will celebrate it. Do you remember how much resistance there was when we introduced mandatory agricultural pension insurance, then I was still young, however, the moment the first farmer got his pension, then he realized the benefits, regardless of the height of that pension, which is even now small, but for him it means a lot. So will these voluntary pension funds, along with the state fund, welcome anyone who can achieve it. The problem is – how to preserve real value? I think that state must find a measure and it is likely that practice will impose on us, which is my opinion, that the state must take great care of it and take appropriate measures to perfect this law if necessary. He gives some papers, conveniences, etc., and that means that he should be regarded as a living organism that needs to be constantly upgraded and perfected, and all for the sake of gaining more confidence in one of these laws that we hope to vote on.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53228	The word has been made by MP Arsen Đuric. After him is the Messenger of the People, Munir the Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53229	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a set of very important system laws in the area of finance, and who knows which way the ruling majority is uniting the debate on such important laws, thus making it impossible for us to discuss the proposed laws in a good and valid way due to a lack of time. Seven very important laws have been united today, and, as we can see, in a few hours, it will be a matter of discussion. But that's no longer worth wasting time talking about. I will talk about some laws in the debate in principle and some in the debate in particular, given that the DSS parliamentary group has submitted a number of amendments to the proposed legislative solutions. I'll start with the law on amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act. The proposed text clearly shows, and this is also explained, that the aim of the adoption of this law is to align the provisions of this law with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and to implement the Government Action Plan and the strategic definition of joining the World Trade Organisation, and all in order to further liberalise the external trade regime. I think you've exaggerated in that liberalisation and you've gone a step further than any of the members of the World Trade Organisation have asked you to. The DSS is absolutely opposed to the provisions of this law, which provides for the abolition of the obligation for residents to earn profits abroad on the basis of the return of investment works to the state, as well as the foreign exchanges held by the client of these investment works as a guarantee for well-done works. So, in the current law, there was this kind of obligation to return to the state after the completion of these works and after the end of that warranty period, and by this law you propose to abolish that obligation and oblige the resident to only report the foreign currency inspectorate on how much he has earned. It is absolutely unacceptable and certainly not in the interest of the Serbian state. I don't know when this law was written and if you've taken care of the interests of the state of Serbia and its citizens or some lobby groups whose interest this is. If this law is adopted in the form that you have proposed, it will lead to a new increase in the payment deficit, which in 2010 alone amounted to nearly three billion dollars, and in these conditions, when we have drastically reduced foreign direct investment, it could endanger the additional stability of the dinar and increase the inflation rate anyway. As a parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment to this member of the law, and I sincerely hope that by the day of the vote you will reconsider and accept it in the interest of the Serbian state. We are also against the proposed provision to enable public undertakings and legal entities, whose majority owner is Serbia, to provide guarantees to non-residents or foreign legal entities, because this is extremely risky. By now, the state has already owed about a billion and a half euros through guarantees to its public enterprises and legal entities, whose majority owner owes about a billion euros, and now we are in a situation that the state will indirectly, through guarantees issued by public companies, take over guarantees according to foreign legal entities, which is absolutely unacceptable. How easily you wrote this bill is the amendment submitted to it by the NBS. Namely, in Article 36. The law relating to transitional and final provisions provides that the control function of the NBS is to cease in the case of exchange transactions and that these transactions are to be taken over by the foreign currency inspectorate, but since 1 January 2011. There was a void. So, if the law is adopted as proposed, its degree of force leaves an empty space of about eight or nine months or until 1 January 2012, and no one will have the authority to supervise the exchange operations during that period. So I think you're going to accept that amendment and remove that anomaly that was created in the writing of the law. When it comes to the Capital Market Act, I will refer to the section relating to the Securities Commission. As you know, the Securities Commission is an independent regulatory body elected by the National Assembly and should be free of any influence by the executive authority. That's where you show complete inconsistency when you write the law. In fact, when you write legal proposals, you absolutely meet all the requirements and directives of the EU, all the requirements of the World Trade Organisation and various other institutions, and when these same institutions ask you for the independence of regulatory bodies, you do not meet these conditions until the end, or you always leave room for you to have any indirect effect on those regulatory bodies that should be independent. This is clearly seen in Article 262 of the proposed law, where the powers and tasks of the Securities Commission are defined. There are 19 points in which the Commission's responsibilities and affairs are listed. Of these 19 points, at 15 points, the commission is carrying out these tasks as trusted, which is totally unacceptable and there is nowhere in the world that the commission is doing these jobs as trusted. Also, I think the commission should be given a little more authority when we take some of the experiences of the countries in our environment. Those commissions have the right to suspend a complete transaction if they suspect that there are elements of a criminal offence, if there are elements of the offence, to remove these misunderstandings and I believe that this type of authority should also be given to our Securities Commission. The Investment Funds Act is important for the development of the financial market with us and the changes in the 2009 laws, following the current and current arguments in this law, aimed at ensuring a more stable and secure business of investment funds and to ensure one stability and security of members of these investment funds. Unfortunately, the measures implemented in 2009 did not give the expected results, as well as all the economic policies implemented by this government. These measures were delayed, inadequate, although we, as MPs of the opposition, warned on time what could be the negative effects and consequences of the global economic crisis. Then we were declared pessimists, defetists, people who spread panic, but unfortunately, we were right. That this is true tells us that the assets of the investment funds have fallen drastically over the last few years in relation to the value of the investment unit they had at their establishment. What is unacceptable for us both in this and in previous changes in 2009, is that investment fund management companies are given the opportunity to buy out the assets of the fund that they manage up to 20% of the net asset value of the fund. In this way, the other members of the fund are placed in a completely unequal position, because if a single fund management company becomes the owner of 20% of the fund's capital, it certainly has more precise and detailed data on the operation of the fund, on values compared to other members and I don't think it can be allowed to allow these other members to be in a more unfavourable position compared to a company managed by the Fund. Obviously, when writing these laws, you took care of investment funds, investment fund management companies, voluntary pension fund management companies, and less about members of these funds, and I will explain it through the Voluntary Pension Fund Act. In that law, I would like to commend a provision that changes the amendments and additions to that law. This is a reduction in the fund management fee, which has been prescribed in the current law at a maximum of 2%. It was assumed that the market and the desire for competitiveness would influence fund management companies to reduce this type of compensation. That obviously didn't happen. I guess one serious analysis found that it was enough 1.25%, as much as this law prescribed maximum compensation for fund management, so there was a reduction. Personally, I think that these costs are lower and that you could go to 1% of the fund management fees. What is controversial in this law is the expansion of the place to invest the property of voluntary pension funds. I'm a member of a voluntary pension fund, as well as about 170,000 people who are members. One of the motives for investing in these funds was certainly a clear legal restriction where these funds could place their funds. The current law allowed funds to be placed in charters of the values issued by the NBS, securities issued by the Republic of Serbia, units of territorial autonomy and local self-government, then mortgage bonds, cash deposits in banks, etc. So it was clearly defined that funds could be invested in those things that are not at great risk. For this reason, voluntary pension funds and record constant yields, i.e. growth of assets and growth of investment units, and even in times of economic crisis, record solid contributions. The problem is that this law allows fund management companies to invest in open investment funds units as well. These are high-risk items, especially if they are aware of the fact that these open-source investment funds have experienced a drastic decline in the value of their assets, i.e. the value of the investment unit, and in this way we are now giving the company's ability to manage the funds of voluntary pension funds to place or carry out some risky placements. I don't think that's good, and I think that provision from this law should be deleted. I will talk about the law on tight interest and payment traffic when the debate is in particular, given that we have a large number of amendments submitted. Once again, I urge you to consider the amendments submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, to accept them, because in this way these legislative proposals will certainly be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53230	The People's Messenger, Munir Poturak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53231	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, my reason to report on these laws from the development of the financial market is above all to try to tell our citizens what are the advantages of amending these laws and what kind of future it is for each of us, primarily because of the responsibility to the legacy, to those to whom we have given life, is important. The roof capital market law primarily regulates supervision and a kind of opportunity, a wide range of values charters, which simply encourages some of our new young, educated forces to exploit the potentials that can be on our market in the environment. I am this law and laws that, along with the one that follows, make one set of overall offers to create good conditions on our market not only for our investors but also for foreign investors. If we don't create security, if we don't create good surveillance, if we don't provide good publicity, first of all, for those users of these laws, the consequences can be bad. These laws regulate both the public and the surveillance, and the stability of all investors. If we do not provide funds through forms of pooling of capital, it is provided by investment funds, it provides a voluntary pension fund. It is an opportunity for such accumulated resources to be placed where they can fertilize faster, where they can make a greater contribution to their members of society. For this reason, advocates, or doubts put into certain institutions – investment funds or voluntary pension funds, is a matter of personality and mentality of people. Those who want to get to a certain capital, yields or larger funds quickly can be members of the investment funds within which they have -- open and closed societies. Open companies offer through shares a lower yield and a lower risk. Closed societies carry a higher risk through actions, but they also bear a higher contribution. Through voluntary pension funds, we have a situation where one responsibility arises, how to regulate stability in our lives for those of our years when we are less able to work, when we expect that retirement can cover a part of our needs. For this reason, it is one of the pillars of finance for a better quality of life, and that is why voluntary pension funds appear. As important as it is, and the point is, that people understand, that people understand why they are obliged, responsible and obliged to share their resources, however small or large, they are obliged to make up for one existence for the older days of their life. If indicators say that the age of women has extended even to 80 years, for people up to 75 years, that because of the right to retire after 65 years, the lifetime of using these pensions has increased to 25 years, and that the relationship of people who work in relation to those who do not work or who use the means of those who work is 1:1 or slightly higher in favour of those who work. It is necessary to create that third pillar of the pension fund, that each of us uses it. I'd like each of us to be, perhaps, an example to others, no matter how much we receive. In our calculation of income, citizens have a minimum of 3,500 dinars, so that an employer or worker can provide their workers with funds that will provide one continuity in the payment of an additional pillar in pension insurance. Many have chosen to take that step because they have seen that they can stimulate their workers in this way. A loyal worker, who knows, who cares about the company he works for, deserves one such stimulant, one such reward, in which 3,500 dinars are singled out every month and does not tax, do not pay contributions to social security. If we see in ourselves that in undeveloped countries with existing pensions we provide almost only 25% of the living needs that are at the time, and even in developed countries that amount is not more than 40%-45%, it is quite logical, it is perfectly normal, it is perfectly polite for a responsible man to care for that part of his life and to provide such a single pillar to himself. A beauty of such possibilities exists in various forms. An investment fund segment is one such option. Someone who has money will probably do it that way, wanting a bigger contribution through investment units, to maybe give themselves a bigger and faster opportunity to make a profit. Voluntary pension funds provide something that, above all, is a matter of one man's mentality, someone who is responsible and cares for his legacy, as well as generational obligations towards his children and his environment. Such an asset segment and such capital pooling, both through investment funds and through a voluntary pension fund, not only creates some responsibility and a more stable future, but it is a question of people who want to take care of their environment. If they have a more stable environment, if they have an example of their strength to show others that they are fighting for others, for those who are after us, for their children above all, then it is a step to make this country more stable and secure. I think it's an act of responsibility for every man. The only thing I can do from the example of many of my acquaintances, companies that pay for their best employees such a kind of voluntary retirement insurance, I can see that this company has stable steps, stable business bases, no matter what the market situation is. They have loyal workers who and when it's hard to work overtime so that such a company along with all its workers will bear the burden of difficulty. The only way that from the whole situation, whatever it is right now is difficult, but over the difficulties, over the problems, and over everything that's happening to us is the easiest thing to criticise, is, as they say, to cry and to focus problems on someone else. If we don't roll our own sleeves, if we don't break ourselves out of these problems, and we don't team up, if we team up through various forms, and even be voluntary pension funds, investment funds, as well as various kinds of associations that are now on stage, to sort of protect ourselves and get out of this situation, not just for ourselves, but also for the protection of the market we operate on, if we don't team up in time, if we don't see our potentials, if we don't in time and we don't include common capital, I'm afraid this market will be someone else's and it'll work differently. This is the moment and this is the moment in which each of us, at every turn, has to share his positive experience with people in order to encourage and encourage through these legal solutions that we make and adopt, which provide stability and security to people. It is the only way to cope with both some apathy and fears that can be heard from this very congregation or from the media, or from people who may have more fear than courage to deal with these problems. I would call as an MP for the Sandzak Democratic Party, someone who has been in the economy for a long time, that no matter what happens to us, and no matter what media and other actions, because the only way out, and the only possibility for us to get as close as possible to each other, to bring capital together through various forms, and even through those I mentioned, which today through legislation are offered, to stop and benefit the generations that come, in favour of this country where we want to be stable, safe for investors and for our jobs that can thus be opened.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53232	I give my word to Parliamentarian Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53233	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this set of financial laws, I was hoping that at least in those announcements that last a certain period of time there would be some improvement. We even got some assurances when it comes to foreign and payment traffic. Here when we discussed the NBS Act, the governor of the time, it means that in the making of laws that will solve all the problems that have arisen in the application of these laws. However, when the laws are looked at, there is even greater chaos in this part of the legislation, and it seems to me that the government's goal is not to settle one area, but to establish privileged relations in which the government will be the one that will be above the courts and above the securities of value and above even this Assembly itself. It's enough to look at the Payments Act. I wouldn't go any further on the subject if I were to point out only in one case. Payment order on forced payment. First, tax settlements, customs solutions, and then judgments and decisions are charged. What government is it in the EU, since you say this is a pro-European government, above its courts? What government may not execute the decisions of its courts? I don't think there's a government like that out there. Then they come to order the bonds and other securities of value at the time of the forced payment. In Article 7 of the proposal, let's see the exemptions from forced collection. It says "under the means of carrying out an emergency payment order, the dinar assets that are held in the bank's dinar accounts, as well as the dinar counter-value of foreign exchange funds at the bank" is the exact definition, I can't mistake my soul, "except for the funds whose execution was excluded by law". Okay, come on, by law. This is the law. But let's see what the "Government Act" says. How can the government prevent a trustee from reaching his means? Based on which, "the NBS regulation," even nicer. So, so far, the government has been over the judiciary, and now the NBS. The Court's decision. The court will not make a decision unless there is a particular reason or if it is not a matter of abuse in the event of forced collection. By decision of the tax authority, i.e. the customs authority. So, again above the judgment of courts and securities of value. Donations and humanitarian aid. Let's discuss it. What kind of person can receive donations or humanitarian aid if they are subject to an emergency payment procedure? I don't think that's what we should talk about. Life insurance? So, they'll be able to invest funds, private pension funds to do whatever they want or insurance houses, and not fear on the market in borrowing because they'll have reason to be excluded if they show these funds in their books as funds collected for the payment of life insurance premiums. Not to read any further. There's a longer list here. Now, simply, just one question goes – then why this law? What's the emergency charge for? When all this stuff you wrote, that's excluded from forced payment, goes into action, no maltenes will ever be able to make a forced payment again. When it comes to this famous solution to prevent abuse in the economy and how to make as little progress as possible and the outstanding claims regarding forced payments are introduced, the register of bonds is introduced. Somebody tell me what the bonds register's gonna solve. When they conclude with someone two legal persons or a legal and legal person, an entrepreneur, a business relationship, going to the register, which is a public book, to check how many he has issued bonds, and that's supposed to be some assurance that someone won't issue a note that won't be charged. I don't think that job has anything to do with it. I've been in business for over 20 years. Here's the problem of a different nature. Here's the problem with the prosecution, because besides what little you write in the paper, that he's arrested this guy, embezzled 3.9m euros that were supposed to belong to the Republic of Serbia's budget, do you know how many people have embezzled not the funds that are budgetary, but that belong to others? Has anyone been prosecuted in front of the D.A.'s office? You have to prove your imagination. What more imagination would it be if he opened up the company, bought the goods, sold the goods, bought the car on the fifth, the sixth face formally and left the company in a blockade? Isn't that a hoax? Prosecutors sit and shut up, it's not theirs, it's gonna be a lot of cases, it's gonna be bad grades. That's how this problem is solved, not the introduction of the bonds register. Will you charge for that, registering? If he wants to, why? The NBS is privileged for many things. Is the NBS running an emergency charge? Is he charging for a forced payment? He's charging, and that's how. Of these funds, he shall finance the registration of the register from the forced payments made. He doesn't have to blackmail the economy for that. You know, every time you do some cost in the economy, it always ends up being charged by end-users, and end-users are citizens. Each of these costs is calculated in that final price, so I think if she solved the NBS of this to be accepted, the law should prevent the registration of bills in the register from being paid or at least to limit how much it is. And not as it is now, every paper when you want to be a legal person to raise, to open a current account with another bank, waiting right away, they say – sorry, you need to bring a solution from the APR, at least three months old. When you go there, you'll have the number of the current account of 3,000 dinars. You'll get it. Then why is that register a public book? It's enough to check it out, but according to the NBS manual, he can't, even if he checked the APR and collected enough documentation, he can't open a current account to his client. Why? To fund executives for the APR? To fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia? So we can keep hiring at the administration? That's all the restrictions. I'd love to have these laws when you write, every honor and honor to teachers and doctors of science, but I would love it when you sometimes write these laws, in making these laws, to be some man of life, from the economy, who knows what really happens when the law is applied, not just people who have acquired knowledge in the cabinet. I'm not saying that what in most cases isn't deserved and enormous, but the cabinet is one thing, theory is one thing, life and practice are another. When you see the Financial Lising Act, first thing, the NBS is back above the courts. So against the NBS solution, the court can't solve the administrative matter. Now you have one law, it's almost regarded as unconstitutional because it was not possible to initiate an administrative dispute on the MIP's solution. Now the Constitutional Court has declared him unconstitutional, and that's not enough for you, but you want once again, as soon as this law is passed, someone goes before the Constitutional Court to wipe out these ludicrous provisions. The same Financial Lising Act says – a leaser can also deal with other activities, which are a lease of returned items of the lease, as well as activities that are normally performed with the activity of the financial lysing, which are: the training services of the lysing recipient in relation to the use of the lysing object, the installation service, the demonstration service, the service of the lysing object, the purchase of spare parts and the like. You can see that this was written by some kind of lease house association. I'm saying life is something different than theory. For some time, licking houses have been bombarding us so you can get, then under the old law it was mostly a car or some other means of transport, whether to transport faces or goods, and it says like this: you can buy this car without interest. The price at which every citizen can buy it for money. People are gullible, they fly. It's a scam, because when you sign the contract, they tell him, you can do without interest, but you have to secure the vehicle exclusively in that insurance company. Am I supposed to say that security is five to seven times bigger than you don't have that financial lease contract? Should I say that the lease house and the insurance company are connected faces with the founder? So, if you leave this provision, every lysing user will be conditioned to the object of the lysing, which is most often cars and cargo vehicles, must maintain only in the service belonging to the losing house. To get only spare parts through them. To train for driving, so I guess when we pass the driver's test, we know we're driving a car, he has to finish training to use that car. And should I say, that all these services will not be with those prices that are marketable, but higher. So, they can't write these things in laws, they all have the right, it's even the object of a leaser's ownership until it's paid off, but it pays off with a first-war leaser, and it's already part and its means, and it has the right to decide where, how, it's going to be maintained, and in accordance with the standards provided by the manufacturer. Nothing more. Not to say that again because of now unfair competition, it will question the work of other economic operators that are not in the system of financial leases, services and everyone else. When it comes to foreign exchange law, we made several objections to the old law on foreign exchange and the old law on the governor, when it was debated about the NBS law, said these problems would be solved. Unfortunately, in the amendment and addition of the Foreign Exchange Act, I could not find that it was settled. And yet this doesn't seem to have been written to me, now the Association of Banks of Law has signed up here. What's the biggest problem? We all know what our economic situation is, that it has low productivity, a small number of employees, and that we mostly live off other people's money. One part of the pair is provided with some kind of export, which is more than modest, and let's say it smells like half the imports. The second part of the funding is from loans raised by the state, a third part of the funds on the basis of the guarantees that our citizens bring to the state, those who have gained the right to retire by working abroad and trading business when our citizens who work abroad come here again and spend their vacations or make their own little investment. It's our foreign currency, and it's our inflow. What's the problem with the law? The problem with the law is that the funds that are deviable and obtained on export basis, the exporter is not obliged to return the funds to the state. They can stay as long as they want there. Under the bill of amendments and the addition of the law, it is now only foreign exchange credit, nothing more. And now someone's saying, we had to bring it in because of the World Trade Organisation. I don't really believe that. Why I don't believe it, it's on the next case, that even one who brings out foreign currency with a hint that he would import something if he didn't import it into the country, he's also not obliged to return the funds. That's not your World Trade Organization regulation. It's the legalization of the problem we had last year or before, so someone doesn't criminally respond, so someone doesn't pay the fine, because only in the last year over two billion euros has come out of the country. It's from our foreign reserve, I mean the NBS, with no sign of importing goods and services. There was talk, you see, we have weak exports, so that's the problem with why the euro is jumping. It is true that exports are weak, but it is not true that the euro is jumping, it is certainly due to speculation made by the banks, along with the NBS. Those same banks wrote us this law. It is seen by that provision that whoever decides to bring funds to the state has a condition that he can sell only those funds to the bank. It is against the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the EU. It's his money and on the inside market he can sell whatever bank he wants, not someone else, within seven days. He can't hold those funds as reserve funds for some new business transaction. Why? So that the bank can get out of the country with fictitious papers and never return them, that's the problem. It's a job that's been going on here and in the EU for a long time, because the euro has been unstable, and even this modest currency we have, the banks that operate here are out of the country to deal with speculation. Why? Because our NB isn't intervening. In 2007, she refused to do exchanges with foreign exchanges, only to trade foreign reserves or buy out foreign exchange reserves, and there was a problem. It's better if the NBS did it here and saved our foreign currency than let the banks do it abroad and direct that money there. These changes and additions to this law are merely legalization of what happened a few years ago. If that's the case, why doesn't the euro jump now? These are the most critical periods and months when there's a imbalance in payment traffic. Why isn't he jumping? No need, no more charters than high interest values that created extraprofits to banks and raised the price of the euro. Last year at this time, around 440 billion euros had the capital of the bank, and today barely 200. They took everything out of the country. No more euro to jump, can't even import be the one to disrupt the price of the euro, because there's no one to buy goods from imports, very little to buy. That's the reason. I thought that these amendments and additions to this whole set of laws would make these problems for the future to be solved, but I can see that, I don't know why, there is one particular financial lobby in the country, which, even to us, and especially Members of the ruling majority, can make them vote not for the benefit of the citizens who chose them, but for the benefit of those who wrote these laws. We have submitted amendments to all these laws. We tried to correct it, but in any case, we feel that these laws should be withdrawn from the procedure, made the right laws that will be in the interest of citizens, our economy, our state, our tax system. For the reason that these laws do not meet these conditions, the Serbian Progressive Party will not support these proposals in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53234	Thank you. Since the SRS is still 50 minutes away, and then a list of MPs who have a desire to take part and have applied to take part in today's work, I suggest we work without a break for another 50 minutes. I give my word to Parliamentarian Marina Toman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53235	At the very beginning, I would like to repeat the finding of my colleague Krasic, who said today that there are really very significant laws on the agenda, but the ruling coalition and, above all, the representatives of the government have shown by their relationship that they really do not have much interest in a quality debate in this House on such important laws. I'll talk about the capital market law. I'm sorry the minister came out. First of all, I want to ask at the beginning of the discussion just a question - could this proposal for a capital market law in practice ensure implementation of the law of defined objectives, such as investor protection, ensuring a fair, efficient and transparent capital market, reducing systemic risk? The answer is no. This is denied by the other members of the law following this first member of the law. Practically, when you look at the goals, those other members of the law sound like some kind of advertising slogan. The question arises: overnight, by adopting a legal act that seeks to address the shortcomings of existing legal solutions and introduce new solutions, can the disastrous consequences of poor privatisation policy be neutralised? Can one law make up for lost years and conceal the fact that Serbia has no developed capital market? The answer is also negative. Indeed, statements by many government representatives about the new law and about the changes he will make sound amazing. If the representatives of the authorities consider that by giving greater authority to the Securities Commission or by prescribing a different structure of the capital market, they resolve and remove the biggest obstacles to the development of the capital market, they have been deceived. The law is one thing, and practice is something else. As a reason for the adoption of the law, the proposer cites the expressed aspirations of economic operators to make the domestic capital market more attractive. The delusion is that it is possible to do so by law. The law, first of all, is a good law, and we believe that this law is not, can help, but many other assumptions must be fulfilled, so that we can talk and realize that Serbia really has an attractive market. As with many other laws, so is this, it is truly fascinating that, as one of the main reasons for the adoption of this law, the EU directive is listed, and they ignore the problems that destroy the society here. Citing that the law is in line with EU rules does not mean that it is the best and most acceptable solution to the circumstances in Serbia. It was definitely the legislator's intention to introduce greater powers and independence of the Securities Commission. It can be seen that this is a little clumsy and that this is why some members are too broadly defined. Certain provisions that leave the Commission closer to determining how it will act or to lay down the criteria to be managed, etc., indeed raise the question of how the Commission will act, will it approach these problems on the basis of a principle of generalised nature or will this be done more closely for each case, in each circumstances in particular? The aim of the law is to provide a transparent capital market. That's what the legislator says. However, the question arises why are so many exceptions to the publication of the prospectus of public offers? What was the intention of the legislator when he wrote the law: transparency or something else entirely? Also, in Article 21, there is another illogicalness that distances us from transparency. Namely, the Commission may comply with the offerer’s request and allow the prospectus not to contain certain data, if it considers that their disclosure could cause disproportionate damage to the issuer. To remind you, the law stipulates that the prospectus should contain information that allows investors to carry out an objective assessment of the assets and liabilities of the financial situation, business gains and losses and a series of other data. This was prescribed by the proposer, and then, by the above-mentioned provision, the potential investor denied the same information. It's really amazing. The bidder has been given the opportunity to choose one of four ways in which he will publish a prospectus for a public offering and make it available to the public. It can choose whether it will do so through printed media, on websites, make it available to the public in writing in the official rooms. This last mode of publication is truly absurd and, if the charter offerer decides on this kind of publication, for many interested ones, it will be inaccessible. Also, when it comes to foreign states, state bodies, central banks, international and supranational institutions, such as the IMF, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank and, according to the bill, other similar international organisations are not obliged to publish a prospectus for a public offering. Not only are they not obliged to publish a prospectus for a public offering, but, above all, it raises questions that remain similar to international organisations. I want to point out that there are misunderstandings when it comes to post-transaction transparency. Indeed an incredible structure – Article 125 states that the market organiser is obliged to disclose the price, size and time of the transaction in relation to the shares involved in trading, which is fine. However, pay attention, it is unclear what the legislator wanted to say in what is next. It is stated that the data on this transaction are published on an acceptable commercial basis. What is the acceptable commercial basis, and who will determine it? I also want to say something about the fund. Article 134 of the Law provides for the introduction of a fund for investor protection, whose assets or financial instruments are at risk in the event of bankruptcy or other inability to meet obligations to clients. However, already Article 137, which defines the fund's funds, raises the legislator's intention. In fact, if the intention was, and it is stated in the law that the fund should protect investors whose assets are at risk in those cases, then it is truly incredible that the fund of the means to serve this purpose can invest in financial instruments and debt securities of value. Although the legislator specified that the financial instruments guaranteed by the Republic, the NBS or, for them, granted approval by the Commission, no one can guarantee with certainty and say that these investments do not pose any risk. That position also coincides with the next position of this member, which states that the fund's funds are used by the fund's fund organiser to pay off the clients' claims for the purposes of certain provisions of this law and cannot be used for other purposes. So that's what it stands for - they can't be used for other purposes. Of course, you can only defend your proposal that the fund must provide funds from which, in the case of a need, in the way that is already provided by law, it will set up the clients. However, you could have solved it in a different way. Also, in the management of the claims, a great possibility has been made for the fund to make a decision to suspend payment to the client based on subjective assessments. One of the problems with this law is certainly conflict of interest. I'll give you one example. The investment company is obliged to organise its business in such a way as to minimise the possible conflicts of interest of its clients and the interest of that investment company. Let me repeat, that they are reduced to the least possible conflict of interest. What does it mean to the least possible? Either there's a conflict of interest or there's no conflict of interest. You simply left room for conflict of interest. To conclude, no one can argue that the law introduces a newspaper into the regulation of the financial market. However, the law is unspeakable, confusing and somewhat contradictory. These are the reasons why our SRS parliamentary group will not support this bill. To repeat the position that my colleague Stevanovic has already said – we advocate the development of the capital market, but not in this way, which leaves room for speculative actions, which leaves room for non-transparency, opens and creates a number of other problems. The proposer argues that the bill is the result of months-long analysis of the real situation on the financial market. Unfortunately, to conclude, Serbia's citizens have witnessed this situation for many years and have suffered the consequences of this situation for many years. There is a reasonable doubt that your months of analysis will not be able to correct the long-standing negligence and chaos. This law won't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53236	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53237	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, financial lease is one of the most messy areas in Serbia. Even after the law was passed in 2003, the licking in Serbia did not live. Its realization is tracking along with many problems. Certain amendments and additions to the Financial Lising Act also bring some changes. What is now current is the possibility of real estate being the object of the lising. In addition to these changes, however, there are such legal provisions that will significantly affect the fact of the increase and cost of industry, which is in a very complex situation. Of course, such things should be completely eliminated. Furthermore, there are no dilemmas from the practice of licking business which the employer has not tried to change or amend and clarify. What is before us today, such a bill, seems to me to be very simple, which is that all the participants, therefore the NBS, the licking of the company domestic and foreign, as suppliers of goods, are maximumly insured, and on this other side, in the capacity of damaged and minors brought into some form of debt slavery, are all those remaining citizens who have escaped during this previous period, and at this moment are most economically at risk. And not only them, but also those small enterprises that have weak financial strength, which really need help, because they are currently choking on the lack of fresh money, which is mainly concentrated in other safe places. Financial lease business, which was in 2010 compared to 2008. The year in Europe fell to the value of a contract leased from 812m euros to only 210m euros, i.e. 74%, which could be said in translation to the People's Dictionary -- job in Europe failed. And also with us, because I repeat again, the law that was passed in 2003, and then two years later they amend that law and what we have today, it seems to me that the Government is trying to open up space to these foreign lease companies to be revitalised here in some way, or salvation, and yet where, rather than on the shoulders of the most endangered layers of the population, and in the way it stands in this bill. What I would like to draw attention to, is that this law is not defined in the right way by the object of licking the contract to the end and it is already seen in this Article 4, which means that the subject of the lease contract can be a new and half-consuming non-consuming thing, new and old construction facilities, apartments, houses, halls, factory spaces, etc. The possibilities of a variety of lysings, better say fraud for a leaser, are enormous in new lysing objects, especially in the old ones. If this is added, let's say, that Article 10 also states that the lease companies can perform, in addition to this activity, and the lease of returned items or sell them, of course, as well as the possibility that the lease company performs as a special activity of the installation service, current maintenance, demonstration, service, purchase of spare parts, and this is not included in the basic lease contract, then it is clear that the recipient of the lease will have no idea at all at the start of the job of what else it needs and what else it can achieve in connection with that equipment or real estate. If we connect all of this now with the fact that in practice we will mostly meet with second-hand equipment, vehicles, old building houses and apartments, etc., then everything is clear, and it is obvious that our citizens will cost quite a lot of money and that ultimately it will never be clear what can happen to them. Furthermore, such a proposal to amend and supplement the Financial Lising Act is not a demarcated agreement on the lease of movable things and the real estate lease, which would probably be logical, because movable things and immovableities bear different characteristics and different risks. Also, additions to the law envision an increase in the capital of companies that are licensed to carry out financial lease operations. I have to admit that it's hard to find a logical reason, because losing houses are not financial institutions that receive money from citizens and businesses in the country and therefore have to have high levels of capital, which serve as a guarantee, protection of money that is entrusted to them. After all, for banks, funds, insurance houses, those high levels of capital make sense. On the other hand, the licking industry represents only 6% of the bank's assets, which means it poses no systemic risk to the financial system. However, what the financial system is in Serbia is is all the risk. In addition, money is borrowed from these parent banks and other European banks or by the bankruptcy of a lease house, so that the domestic market cannot be compromised. Also, the fact that I was already talking about, which is an increase in costs, can also be influenced by these additional mandatory management bodies, because in our opinion there is a complicated and expensive structure for companies that can have a dozen employees, which loses some of the basic advantages of the lising, which is, at least it should be, speed and flexibility in the whole business. Once again, an opportunity has been missed to properly clarify and regulate the difference between this financial lease and the operational lease, and there are several things that should be pointed out on this occasion, so I guess one of the future legislators will also take account of it. I'm just going to say that operating leases account for 30% of the total leases of lease houses operating in Serbia, that it is a financial product and that it is present everywhere in the world as one way of obtaining and using basic assets, and very much sought by foreign companies, precisely because of its extrabilient nature. Physical persons are often assigned to this operational lease due to the lack of legal restrictions on the level of duty, but there are internal rules on the lease of houses when it comes to the level of duty. By regulating the area, we think a basis would be laid for a safer and clearer business environment. Also, operating leases are currently offered through lease form, which is not appropriate because it is much closer to this financial lease than to classical lease. It could be precisely defined that after the return and sale of the lising object, the difference is, of course, both negative and positive between that selling price and the rest of the lising, the principal falls on the load, or practically, that the licking industry sells money, and that the object serves only to provide loans. There have been attempts to make this bill better, but that also meant participation, as you like to say, and a more transparent performance of all those who could somehow contribute to the regulation of this area. It is evident that people sign contracts that give up their rights and that may be the biggest problem. Also, what many of these items are charged and all of this leads to the confirmation of that first sentence of mine – that it is indeed a rather unsettled area. It was necessary to put in place a new position at this time to define clearly who would bear the risks and other risks of these facilities in the real estate lease agreement, which are all hidden faults. Of course, it's easy to locate those that are the main risks in all of this. Also, the problem that arises and which is likely to be warned but is not regulated this time – the fact that it is not possible to solve the problem of paying VAT on the lease of a car that is invoiced monthly to end-users. Practically, we are the only country in the region that seems to have an inevitable VAT on interest in the financial lease. Look at the second example: if the law does not follow, and as we can see, it does not follow, changes to the VAT Act, the licking of real estate for natural persons is very expensive, so 7-8% interest, licking and 18% VAT, it is a total of 26% tax burden compared to some 14-15% of bank interest and it is clear how economically justified this is. The tax on the transfer of absolute rights in the delivery contract is paid twice: 2.5% for the first time, then 2.5% for the transfer of ownership contracts to recipients, which of course costs the whole business significantly. What was also not regulated, which was supposed to be, is who could be the founder and the leaser. There's a minimum capital here to lick between 0.5m and 5m euros. It's only about the bank. What is quite symptomatic, in Article 13 paragraph 1 – what does this mean indirect ownership of the actions of the lease company? So, one notion that opens up the possibility of some things that I wouldn't like to talk about this time. So, it is evident, when the statistics are looked at, that the number of company leases was down even by about 8.7% in the first 11 months of last year, that the number of users of the lease contract between the companies from January to November was also reduced by 5.5%, that as for the number of these lease contracts, the company followed the same trend, etc. We're in real estate business here now. Tomorrow we'll probably invent some other licking for something else, maybe air, food or anything else. It seems to me that there are far more important things to take into account, and this area of financial lysing, after such a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements, is clear that it will not contribute even to a pedal to fix the situation as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53238	National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are today having a joint debate on seven points of the agenda. Among them are new laws and amendments and additions of existing laws. This has become a practice in the National Assembly, to conduct joint discussions on a large number of points, which aims to make MPs far less time to speak than they would say if all points were considered individually. Otherwise, this time and at this very moment, we're also conducting a debate without a representative of the government. These seven laws characterized representatives of authorities as a set of laws that would allow for the creation of a more favourable and less risky environment for foreign investors and, of course, without which they cannot, were presented as a alignment with EU processes. On this occasion, I'm going to say something about amendments to the foreign exchange law. These changes are explained as harmonizing with the World Trade Organisation's rules and principles, as some members asked for it, and on the other hand because Serbia's strategic commitment to become a member of the organisation. Here, let's remind the citizens of Serbia now of the promises that the government has shared in recent years, not saving words. On 9 May 2008, the then Minister of Economy and Regional Development was in Geneva at the invitation of World Trade Organisation General Pascal Lamija and the conclusion was this: Serbia will become a member of the World Trade Organisation next year, provided the same energy that the Serbian side has invested so far. The following year after 2008 was 2009. The membership didn't take place. The question is raised – did this not come up with the necessary energy investment that Mr. Lami was talking about or was it something else? On 4 November 2010, at a meeting on the benefits and costs of Serbia's WTO accession, we had once again the opportunity for the Ministry of Economy, only this time from the secretary of state, to hear that there are real chances for Serbia to become a member of the WTO by the end of 2011, for multilateral and bilateral negotiations to go in a good direction, for some further issues to be resolved, and for the Serbian side to hope that there will be no further demands from the countries with which it is still being negotiated, for the moment in multilateral negotiations to address issues related to GMOs and the protection of intellectual property rights, that Serbia's WTO's accession to Serbia is a priority of the Serbian government because it is a precondition for EU membership. Otherwise, negotiations started in 2005. I cited this as an illustration of how those who lead Serbia are ready to easily say something that they themselves are sure can't be achieved as easily. I am saying this because they also know and knew that negotiations and accession procedures usually take five to six years, that very rare countries in transition where the period was shorter, that China, for example, had negotiated 15 and a half years, while Russia began negotiations in 1993, and that the memorandum of understanding between Russia and the EU, which ended bilateral negotiations on Russia's accession to the WTO, was signed last December. I listed this for the reasons that everyone knows that things are really happening, but it's kind of different to the public, like when, in September 2008, in the National Assembly, we heard the famous "let's go to the EU", just to adopt the SAA, and none of it. Of course it is better that it is because the EU brings nothing better to the citizens of Serbia. I will now comment on some concrete solutions that bear the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act. First of all, what concerns the foreign inspectorate. The reform of the judiciary, of course, by the law which regulates it, the Law on Violations, which has been applied since 1 January 2010, has defined that the infringement proceedings are conducted by courts. That's how the foreign inspectorate lost the authority to conduct the first-degree misdemeanor proceedings. Of course, this law now confers new powers on the foreign inspectorate which so far have been in the jurisdiction of the NBS, such as the control of trading operations, the control of the application of regulations on trading operations, and also the part concerning the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Of course, we had no doubt that a new jurisdiction would be assigned to the foreign exchange inspectorate, or that it would be left without one budgetary user. Also, Article 5 introduces the obligation to report to the foreign currency inspectorate on payments, charges and transfers of funds to resident legal entities and entrepreneurs whose head office is located in countries that have privileged tax systems. For these provisions, of course we won't say they're bad. However, it can be said that compared to the announcements we had the opportunity to hear from the president of the Republic, Mr Tadic, they are mild. Mr. President, at one point, was very angry with tycoons, or perhaps he estimated that Serbian citizens wanted to hear it, so all those working in Serbia, and the headquarters of their companies in one of the tax administration countries, called for economic patriotism, for part of their wealth to be involved in creating new opportunities for citizens -- for new jobs, for health care, for education. For those of us who know well how things are in these people's hands, those whom the President of the Republic addressed, the only thing we can say is that he probably didn't know how cruel the world was, or he didn't want to know. It would be good to ask the authorities for data – how many salaries are employed in such enterprises, how many do they do unreported, on black, without paid contributions, how many hours do they work overtime, have they ever been paid overtime, how many days a year do they have a vacation, do women employed in them have the right to maternity leave? When he finds out the truth, though I believe he knows it, it will be illogical to him what he asked the tycoon to do. It's like he asked them to publicly tell everyone that they've acquired so much wealth and how they've come to such a rude wealth. When they say they've acquired these funds, they'll show that economic patriotism. Of course, that's never gonna happen. I've already mentioned that exchange operations will no longer be in the jurisdiction of the NBS, but will be in the jurisdiction of the foreign currency inspectorate. I would briefly merely state the position of the SRS regarding the provision of Article 19(2). Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements, which adds a new Article 39a. It defines that the foreign exchange inspectorate will provide a solution to the withdrawal of the power to carry out trading operations for a period of five years with at least three times in the course of the two years, with the exception of the reasons set out in Article 1(5). This is the case when an authorised exchanger in writing informs the foreign currency inspectorate that he no longer intends to carry out exchange operations. We in the SRS feel it is necessary to tighten these conditions a little bit. If someone makes major mistakes in their business and puts himself in a position to be taken away from him twice over the course of one year, one of them loses power for five years. We have submitted 10 amendments to this bill. One of them is referring to a member I mentioned, but we'll talk about it all when it's time to discuss it in detail. In the end, we all agree on one thing, of course we need to create as favourable frameworks and help exporters. With this in mind, I will return to what we heard when we presented this proposal from Mr Djelic, that there is a great battle ahead for Serbia to increase its exports. One logical question is raised – why is there insufficient use of the Free Trade Agreement between Russia and Serbia to export as many Serbian products to Russia as possible? It is widely known that only Moscow spends agricultural products in the amount that Serbia produces in two weeks. It is impossible for those who exercise power in Serbia not to recognize it as one way out of the crisis, especially when it comes to agriculture. We from the SRS are prone to the belief and belief that someone is preventing Serbia from co-operation with the Russian Federation. What is particularly important, Russia absolutely does not seek any political concessions, nor does it pressure Serbia in any way. These alleged friends of yours from Brussels and Washington have made their own conditions a miracle in Serbia – starting with questioning Serbia's territorial integrity, unemployment and growing poverty.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53240	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Your MP group has 13 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53241	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, we have seven very important laws in the financial sphere, which, according to the usual practice of the authorities, come together and there is not enough space or opportunity to point out the basic problems in certain areas treated by these laws. We don't have the opportunity to offer adequate solutions. It is, I say, a common practice in Serbian parliamentaryism, but it is very harmful, I would even say fatal. It is an opportunity for the Assembly to take one of its roles, and that is the role of the controller of the entire system. The financial system has come out of the hands of domestic shareholders and under the control of local authorities. If that were the case, it is best to show the data we receive from the finance ministry, the NBS, which when they talk about control, we see that very few controlled companies in the area of banking, financial areas, areas of lising and other institutions. There are very few reports filed, first of all, criminal, commercial crimes, and the crimes are almost gone. We know that where money is spinning, where traffic is concerned, there are the most violations there. It's the cancer wound of this system, but what's there. There are seven laws ahead of us, and I'll look back at some of them. First I'm going to talk about the first capital market law. I think we lost the capital market at the beginning of 2008, a drastic decline in 2009. The analysis found on the Ministry of Finance site, which is an analysis of macroeconomic and fiscal developments in 2010, shows that the total turnover on the Belgrade Stock Exchange in 2010 was 23 billion dinars, compared to the 2009 decrease by 44.9%, with a decline in stock trade of 50.1% and in bond trade of 7.1%. It's these two particulars that talk about the essence of the problem in this area. All the things you've changed, these are cosmetic changes, this is the essence of the problem. For foreign investors and domestic foreign capital banks, it is most acceptable to invest where the highest interest rate is, where the highest interests are and where the trade is the highest, and security. The stock market and actions at the moment, given the reduction, were not safe enough to settle, regardless of the high rates and interest that could be drawn from these jobs. It's all moved: where? It's moved to state records of value, vault records and other records of values behind which the state stands. The banking system, monopolies companies, foreign investors, who directly and indirectly insert funds into the banking system of the Republic of Serbia, have found the right source and the right way to pay off their funds, fertilise their money and benefit from these businesses. I've often talked here about what the failures of the financial system are, pointing to this particular aspect. This country sells its securities of value, state records, at very high interest rates. Why? I don't know. The explanation is, to one of my questions, the ex-governor answered – there is a huge risk. Look, why would these foreign banks, why would foreign shareholders, who have their own funds in Serbian banks, risk in Serbia, in business with the Serbian economy? Don't take any chances. What would you put at risk your capital? Place him where he needs to be. You see, there's a key mistake in this country. The banking system is out of hand, foreign blackmail banks have come, so they're determining interest policy. You can tell by the trades. When trading is reduced, the rate jumps, their interest jumps, or their pressure on those who sell these securities of value, so it ends up somewhere around 15%. Now the current interest rate is, I think, 13.25% of the last sale. Look at the slaves we come to. In 2008, eight and a half billion dinars were sold, 2009 - 212, 2010 - 256 in 2011, according to budget - 383 or 385 billion dinars. It's very interesting to process these forms. What does the Ministry of Finance's analysis say? The analysis says this: the participation of foreign investors in the total turnover of charters from 2010 was on average 33.6%, down from the previous year by 8.5 percentage points. At the same time, foreign investors' participation in bond trading has increased to around 15.3%. What does this analysis say further? It says -- in addition to regular budget expenditures in 2010, public debt of 229,9-230 billion dinars was paid off, out of which nearly 90% of the debt was used to pay out the debt to domestic lenders, so 230 billion were used to pay out the public debt. It further says – out of the amount of public debt paid, domestic lenders 185.6 billion dinars refer to debt payments according to government records. Look, when the state sells securities of value, it's trying to sell on as long a deadline as possible. But foreign banks, I repeat, are blackmailing. They do it for three months, for six months and possibly up to a year. There were certain sales and something more, but it's far less with a high interest rate. If we just compare it to our environment, where the same securities of value are sold, it started somewhere around 11:00, and now there's 13 comas. The same thing in Croatia ranges in a range of 3-5%. In BiH, which can be said that according to the economic and other conditions of life, work and business are somewhere at the level of the Republic of Serbia, there is up to 7%. Bulgaria, there is up to 4%, etc. Where are we? We three times as many. What's this about? What do we need this law if we're paying interest like this? Why do we need all this when we're too in charge, when we're in charge of returning the short term of what we did six or nine months ago? Look, when the state does an analysis, when it faces these problems, when it sees and monitors business flows, and when it sees that funds are extracted from the economic system and go the other way, it's looking for a way out. Where's the exit? The State must transfer the banking capital from its portfolios to the portfolios of companies. Here's an example. In 2006, the economy did positive business and made a billion-per-euro profit, 105 million dinars. In 2007, about 50 billion dinars were the profits of the company. In 2008, the loss was 37 billion, 2009 – 95 billion, 2010 still has no results, but it will be at least 120 billion, over 1.2 billion euros. If she were a serious government and a serious state, she'd be worried about this kind of information. Regardless of the global crisis, it seems here that there is already a loss in 2008. In 2009, nothing is done, subsidized loans, etc., it's tra la la, there's nothing there. The results say there's no movement, and you've removed it from the entire financial system, which is related to the economy, financial flows. You've moved it where it doesn't belong, in the economy it should. That's why we have this business situation. And even from the stock market, you've gotten these assets, you've put them into other flows, but it's devastating that nothing seems to go back to where they're supposed to, and on the stock market, both in the economy and in those streams where fertilization is fast, where we're going to meet those shareholders, and on the other hand, to help domestic institutions, legal persons living, being and working in those areas. Given the weather, it's just a little bit more of a tight interest. Look, at a tight interest rate, this is basically an older law, and that's something that's common. Personally, if I were you, I wouldn't have changed the tight interest. Why? Because he's the biggest debtor of the state. By increasing the tight interest, you're raising the state's commitment right now. Look, why is the state the biggest debtor? Why does nothing seem to get her out of debt slavery because it's slavery? You've braked all the economic systems that work with the state, state-owned enterprises, mostly public enterprises, it's a deadlocked system. So, the moment the state doesn't pay off within the deadlines that are scheduled, which are agreed, the whole system stops. The moment the state releases tens of billions and certain funds are withdrawn, it mostly goes through certain credit lines, through borrowing, at the moment these areas flourish, conditions are created for normal work, functioning, etc., but there are no such flows, because there will be less and less room for borrowing. It's a fact that a tightening interest is a penalty interest punishable by debtors. The debtor must be punished by an adequate punishment that will be brought here, but you yourselves punish yourself and the state and commit to pay, just because you haven't created the conditions, you haven't analyzed the situation, you've made a programme of measures that you'll do in the short and long term to resolve certain conditions. Without that, there's no luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-06-0.u53242	Time. Thank you. Since no word has been reported on the lists of MPs, I ask if anyone who has not used the right of Article 96 of our Rules of Procedure wants a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on the Market of Capitals, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Lising, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the rate of pressure interest, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and Pension Plans and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments. We'll be working on it tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you for your cooperation. Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. However, in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I would ask the MPs to insert the cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, so we can work uninterruptedly. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure. Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Siniša Stamenkovic, please.
