ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61896	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 71 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs whose identification cards are in the parliamentary voting units, please insert your MP cards to see if there are any Rules of Procedure established conditions for the start of the session of the National Assembly. Please check if you are registered in the system if you insert your cards. I find that the electronic system has established that 86 MPs have registered in the electronic system and that a certain number of MPs are also present in the hall. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next Members of the People: MP Zeljko Tomic and the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the motionary Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister and Finance Minister, has called for the sittings to be attended by Dusan Nikezic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Ružica Stojiljkovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, and Nada Mirkovic, Head of Budget in the Ministry of Finance. Now, MPs in accordance with Article 27, Article 90 and Article 77, I am informing you of the following: I will set a break and the work of the morning session will continue at 13.00 hours. The period shall be determined by reason of the consistency of the working bodies and the need for the Financial Committee to decide fully and fully. Today we'll be working even after 1800 hours and there won't be any during the session that will continue at 13.00 hours specified breaks. So we continue at 13.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliaments continue to work in search of the details of the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2011 budget of the Republic of the Republic, and with proposals for decisions on granting consent to the amendments and amendments to the 2011 financial plans, the Republic Fund for PIO, the Republic Fund for Health Insurance of the National Employment Service. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011. One year, with proposals for a decision to give consent to amendments and amendments to the financial plans for 2011 of the Republic Fund for Pension Invalid Security, the Republic Fund for Health Security of the National Employment Service. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Rade Obradović, Meho Omerović, Riza Halim, Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Janković, Aleksandra Ilic, Miroslav Markićić, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastorović, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Igor Budimirović, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miljan Miladović, Boraža Žilić, Miražanović, Miražanović, Miražan Kražanović, Miražina Pošažina Poković, Mirako Radko Radko Rado Rado Radić, Mičko Radić, Mičko Radić, Milić and Včeta Rogić, Včeta Togović, Včeta Tošković, Včeta Tošković, Dragan Čović, Dragan Šković, Dragan Šović, Dragan, Dragan Šović, Dragan, Dragan Šović, Dragan, Dragan Šović, Dragan, Dragan Šor, Dragan Šor, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Mir, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Slav, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Slav, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag The amendment was written by MPs Zoran Krasic to Article 1st item 4, Dragan Stevanovic, to Article 1st position 4, Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 1st paragraph 4 and Sreto Peric to Article 4. It's a bill of law. You will also receive reports on the amendments submitted by the Finance Committee, using the rules of procedure, to the draft amending and supplementing the Budget Law, and before the opening of the search in particular. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Radojko Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61898	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djelic, we are finally starting a discussion in detail. First we waited for the government's opinion to arrive, and then we waited for a proposal representative to come to us, then we waited for a quorum to be made on the Finance Committee. I guess now we have all the conditions, just to see what the amendment looks like. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Article 1 of the Rebalance defines the structure of the budget, revenue, expenditure, basic expenditure and the way in which the deficit is resolved. I proposed adding item 1 which would say that the budget is a comprehensive plan of revenue and expenditure set out in specific laws and that the Budget Law cannot change the rights and obligations laid down by specific laws. Normally, you were the finance minister, you know the financial systems of a large number of countries, it is common that the budget is one specific law, that the budget practically collects the rights and obligations in all specific laws, that the budget cannot establish any new law, or any new obligation, but that each specific law defines what obligations are for the citizens of Serbia and what rights they are, because otherwise any right could be denied. That is why it is also common to provide together with the budget a set of laws that regulate revenue and expenditures of the budget, if there are changes, whether they are tax or some other laws and define a memorandum of economic policy to see which direction is economic policy. A budget can't be the basic law that exists in one country. It's important because it defines the government's policy. What has become a practice in the government's mandate is that the budget changes many other laws. It is particularly interesting to amend the Law on the financing of local self-government, as the last few years have been denied the obligations of local self-government, the right of local self-government to amend the law and to put an end to the Law on the financing of local self-government. My amendment was not accepted, because it explained that the budget is a basic document that regulates expenditure and expenditure, but that this is a basic document of the government's economic policy and budget, starting from that, cannot plan income, income and expenditure if they are contrary to the established fiscal rules. The fiscal rules shall be laid down by one member of the Budgetary System Act. If fiscal rules are more important than the obligations set out in some other laws, then that and how it introduces uncertainty for all those who are committed to budget planning, because we are going towards a three-year budget, we are going towards the need to plan a few years in advance at the level of all budget users. If so, then how is it possible that the budget changes the rights and obligations? And this budget deprives the rights of local self-government. We were waiting for the amendment because the issue of amendments related to the facts about the financing of the Vojvodina was asked. That means that by budget we can change any law, then that means that until the budget is adopted we don't know what rights and obligations will be. That's exactly the opposite of what it says here. I think the amendment should have been accepted and that if there are problems, and there can always be problems in the execution of both income and expenditure sides of the budget, then it is necessary to change all the necessary laws and in this case if we cannot finance local self-government then it is necessary to amend the Law on the financing of local self-government and to postpone the application of individual members for a year or two. It is similar with other things that deprive the budget of the rights of budgetary users.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61899	Mr. Vice President, you have your word. Mr. Djelic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61900	Thank you, dear President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I would very briefly respond to this presentation. You're asking a good question, and that's, is it and how can we at all times coordinate what are formally defined rights, with what is our country's financial reality? You're right about something. It is extremely important that the budget of the Republic of Serbia, at any moment, faithfully express what rights and obligations have been established. But let's also remember ten years ago, when we worked together on certain public financial reforms, we started from a situation where there were a series of formally founded rights, for which there was simply no money. We had unrealistic budgets, budgets that had a series of separate accounts. The so-called "no" was not established. The "gross budget" principle, which I turn around, has been here for 11 years, and five governments are mostly respected. We've come to a situation where, as you say, we need to know exactly what it has to do and then see in that area how this optimal money can be deployed. The amendment is not acceptable, not because there is no correct idea behind it. The idea is that if a certain right cannot be financed, the original law, the law that originally established those rights and obligations, must also be changed. That's the direction. We will agree that it is much more important for our citizens to tell exactly what the nation's resources are and to distribute within that framework. This leads to a real discussion in the National Assembly. Instead of having a practice, according to which, essentially, if we follow this logic to the end that you have proposed by amendment, we say that everything that is justified in any law must be written here at all times, regardless of the situation. The discussion of the budget would start to look like a pretty empty story. There'd be some sort of distribution debate that wouldn't actually be real. As a rule, we'd be talking about assets that don't exist. We went out and it took us many years to get out of such a system, to have real public finances, that when you talk about one percent of GDP, that is. The decimals we see here in this rebalancing table are proposed for a larger deficit, we're talking about real categories. That's why the government didn't accept this amendment. Dear People's MP, that doesn't mean that your idea, and that's the idea of going towards one system, where, in any case, and at all times, we have a fully coordinated financial moment, a moment of budget on one side, and what is guaranteed, that is. the intensity of giving rights and obligations to comply. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61901	Thank you. Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61902	Mr. Djelic, I'd just like to correct you. It's not formal rights, some rights are laid down by law. There is not a single right that can appear in the budget without having a specific legal basis for it. Therefore, when the law is passed, it must be respected exactly what you're talking about. That's the thing I personally insist on, whenever we talk about the budget. Let's talk about what real and real obligations this country can fulfil. Let's talk about this. That's the real question when talking about the budget, what are the real possibilities of the country. Then we should also talk about all the projects you're telling us are necessary. Are they really necessary? Is it necessary in the budget for each ministry and each budget user to have special services under contract? We know it's the public sector and it's the largest in Serbia. We know it grows from day to day. If there are so many employees and there are so many people in the public sector, how is it possible that the public sector is unable to do certain jobs, because it has to hire people on the side? What is extremely important, and what the budget needs to meet, must reflect the real strength of the country's economy, both by revenue and by spending. He also has to be honest. Must be the money he's got, running it the right way and the right way. It's a budget obligation. If that's what we're talking about, then we need to see if that money is distributed in the best possible way. If that's not the case, then the budget has to go through with the laws. If it is not able to implement a certain obligation, then we need to make that clear and change the law that the state of Serbia is not able to meet at that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61903	Thank you. Just tell me, is this the time of the authorized representative you used or from the group?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61904	The second time you gave me a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61905	No, you didn't get the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61906	You should have told me, then I wouldn't have answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61907	I'd say you're entitled to a replica. As soon as I didn't, I gave you a word of one of these two times. You need to identify yourself for which.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61908	For the first time, I spoke as an authorised representative. The second time I've used time intended for replication. I can't answer twice on the same basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61909	It's from a group, then. Thank you. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61910	I speak as an ordinary MP, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, so you don't get confused. I'm glad Mr. Cvetkovic came. I don't know why I'm so glad, but I don't like it when God plays Prime Minister, because then we know what the consequences are. Mr Cvetkovic, there is Mr Bozidar Djelic next to you on the left. Mr. Beard, please listen to me. In all the colleges where funding is taught, etc., and above all I think about legal and economic colleges, one of the first lessons is – all that is the income of the state and where commitments are imposed on businesses and citizens are made during one year, and applied next year. Why? So that an ordinary man can plan future activities, that economic operators can plan their business activities, that he knows exactly what the tax will be, what the contributions will be, what VAT will be, where the deadlines will be charged, etc. According to that logic, anything that changes in the regulations regarding, let me say, the wider, the budgetary system or the public income system, can change from January to June of the current year. Those provisions shall apply from 1 January of the following year. So that's not the practice of what we've heard, that when the Budget Law is passed, tax regulations change. That's what DOS-led democracy gave us. Mr Cvetkovic, this democracy, the five-octobaric, has also given us the situation that we do not have a final bill for 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, let's forgive you for 2010. We have draft laws for 2008 and 2009 and we have audit reports. It's reportedly in the process. But the question is, how do we consider it if we have a seven-year vacuum? There's no way to consider it. Article 1 of each budget law and budget rebalancing law is significant. But when you basically postulate what everyone needs to know in law school, Chicago, at economic college, that's why you get an "A." Comrade, come within the next test period. Since democracy came, repeaters have been in power and anything is possible with us. So we are spinning in a vicious circle and a message is being sent to the citizens – let's just catch the money from the European funds, let's catch the money from the credit, etc. And the problem will be solved. This logic for the past 11 years has also led us to this situation, that we owe 27 billion euros as a territory, regardless of public, commercial or private debt, and 61 billion, Mr Cvetkovic, those who burned the Assembly, have spent these 11 years and Serbia is never poorer. Thank you for not giving me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61911	The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every time the budget rebalance is in that famous Article 1, much tells us what the government's policy is, and it tells us about our situation in the economy and what the social status of most citizens in Serbia is. What sets out this budget is that, no matter what the state is earning, it is spending more and more. Instead of reducing budget revenues and budget expenditures, this is all the other way around. We have a cut in revenue by about 20 billion dinars. For one part you will say – well, part of the 20 billion has been transferred to local self-government because of the Law on the financing of local self-government. But what about those other revenues, that the taxes paid from the added value, that the item is smaller by about 15 billion, that the value added tax achieved in the country is less than about 13 billion, that the value added tax from imports is smaller by about two billion? This tells us that our citizens no longer have the funds and therefore the budget revenue is being reduced, which is contrary to that declared policy by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on some significant growth in gross products. It wouldn't be you if you didn't start inventing hot water, which is seen in this rebalancing, because the government's debt is higher by about 75 billion dinars. Now there's one question -- what funds are the budget deficit being financed from? There are two possibilities. One option is that it will be financed from the stand-by arrangement, i.e. the loan for precautionary purposes from the IMF. If someone tells me that the deficit is greater than 75 billion from those funds, then the question is, what about another 13 billion dinars? If it is financed from some other sources, i.e. those reserve funds that should be in the account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, what are these funds and from what sources? I'd ask a question -- if someone hadn't already owed the state without the Budget Law? Because, Mr. President, you're giving me the right to suspect that someone owed the state without the knowledge of the National Assembly and of the MPs. It is enough to look at the NBS site, which says NBS foreign reserves increased by 938m euros in September. At the end of that month, both 11 billion and 358m euros were reached. This was the most contributed inflow from the sale of a 724m-euro euro bond to the Republic of Serbia. If someone owed the state about 75 billion dinars, what difference does the budget deficit make, then the question is, who could have done it? Mr. President, what if your budget doesn't pass? Who's going to be responsible for this assignment? You can see for yourself, Friday all day, today we begin our meeting at 10.00 hours, then at 13.00 hours, then at 14.45 hours, to start somewhere around 15.15 hours. If these are Euro bonds, who was actually allowed to owe the state without the approval and knowledge of the National Assembly? Since you're boasting in the media that you've actually broadcast a billion euros, when it comes to euro bonds, is this 724 million just a major, and up to a billion euros is interest? Don't let any more reasoning be low liquidity to the banking sector. We already talked about it in principle. In 2010, banks brought out 2.5 billion euros from the state and you as Prime Minister and no one responded at all, either the NBS or the Prime Minister, or the President of the Republic. Now you have a problem and you say -- we can't be in debt on the domestic market, because our banks aren't liquid with 5%, 5.5% or 6%, but we have to be on the foreign market. There is always a story about over-indebted members of the euro area. For example, Italy has reduced credit ratings. It still takes about 2.5% of the interest less. Spain also doesn't go over 5.5%, and we have the kind of credit rating we have, so we owe ourselves 7.5% to make it some spare money. And that's a little bit, so you're planning on taking another loan from the IMF, too, out of caution. It would be fine if you responded to the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia how many of these two prior loans will cost citizens of Serbia and some future government in which I hope you won't be president?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61913	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61914	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, representatives of the Government, so, with this amendment, we wanted to point out that the deficit in budget rebalancing is extremely large and to let it know that certain corrections can reduce this projected deficit. The projected deficit has thus mirrored the government's behaviour in the previous period compared to the economic programme it has implemented, that nothing has helped Serbia's economy, as well as increasing Serbia's citizens' standards. Normally, we at the DSS are opposed to this deficit and this kind of public spending. First of all, it is financed from expensive loans coming from abroad and thus, by analogy, threatens Serbia during a subsequent period of bankruptcy. Since 2009, we've been facing a deficit. At that time, Serbia had a 3.1% deficit in the budget, and we had not had the strength for nearly three years to reduce the deficit and move those funds to the Serbian economy. We're talking today about a deficit of 4.5% of GDP, which was 4.1% of the projected budget, which means, by the figures, it's 23 billion dinars. This is in favour of my thesis, that the government, which is known as the Social Responsible, whose head you, Mr Cvetkovic, have done nothing to develop Serbia's economy and to increase Serbia's citizens' standards. So we can figure out what kind of budget rebalance, so can the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61915	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Vladan Jeremic has asked for the position of other current subsidies to be reduced by three billion dinars and thus to reduce the budget deficit. Through its amendments, the SRS proposed a completely different approach to the fiscal obligations of this country, i.e. rights and obligations. Our approach to fiscal obligations was not generally respected, because if it were, some amendments would probably be accepted here. What I'm trying to say at this point, and as far as Mr. Djelic's position is concerned, it's that this budget rebalance is fiscal reality. This budget rebalance, Mr. Cvetkovic, is everything, just not an expression of fiscal reality today in Serbia. We have, first of all, a problem what is it for you fiscal reality? We have a problem with your perception of fiscal reality. This 10.00-hour circus can be interpreted as reality, but it's not good, it's a bad reality. You know, as a reality, you can also experience the blackmails your coalition partners bring to you or the accounts they make to you, you can, and we can all take it as reality, but it's totally devastating and sick for this country's fiscal system. I'll show it to you a little bit later with just one amendment that the service has now divided and refers to one of the blackmails for a whole billion, the funds are reserved for the AP Vojvodina. And some other amendments, defending themselves allegedly with plans, projections in this and next year, cannot be accepted for one reason only. Now it's obvious because at this point the SRS doesn't have the blackmail capacity, it can't blackmail you, and then you don't want that reality to be experienced and accepted. You rejected this amendment, among other things, by referring to Article 28. The law of the Pussy System. You know, when something wants to be done, there's a way, but when something's not going to be done, it's the easiest thing to do -- it's not in accordance with the law. Do you know how many things you haven't done in just this year? Do you know how many things that concern our fiscal policy in the state are not in line with the fiscal rules and principles that you adopted here and that you declared? And we're going to show you all this through the debate today. It's the easiest thing to say -- so it's not consistent, the general part with the special part, we can't accept. Why don't you accept it? You're saying that the implementation of the subsidy programme planned for those activities could be compromised. And now you're calling for adequate planning that capital expenditure at the beginning of the year has been planning for more than eight billion than you're proposing right now. And you are calling for adequate planning and you believe that you have offered something rational and quality in the 2011 budget. That's really pointless. The SRS believes that the budget of the Republic of Serbia at the moment, and adequately fiscal reality and economic reality of the state, must be different. And you can't, Mr. Cvetkovic, in the Law on the Budget System to look for space to verify your political weaknesses, the political weaknesses of the ruling elite in Serbia, but in this law you must find provisions and norms that you will so arrogantly and irresponsiblely oppose. This is the meaning of the Law on the Budgetary System and the fiscal rules and fiscal principles, general, special, whatever you want, which you have imposed on us, and you have declared this year on all our mouths. They were supposed to be used to counter the haughtiness of those who blackmail the government of the Republic of Serbia, for which we wait all day and for which the whole state suffers, after all. For the SRS, the budget of the Republic of Serbia in this year must be with higher revenues, with a different cost structure, all of which would give room for the deficit to be lower, on the one hand and, on the other hand, for the debt of this country to be lower, not to move as it moves. If you should, Mr. Prime Minister, boast that in the coming year you will leave a billion and a half dollars or a euro on someone's account, all billions and a half of dollars and debts, then the economy managed by this state is unclear. You had to show the first example of belt tightening, and then ask those who live in the real sector today. The request of the SRS in this rebalancing wasn't something anyone shouldn't have and should have accepted. Mr Cvetkovic, we asked you, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to define 10 billion dinars and to settle the debt of the Republic of Serbia's budget to domestic goods and services producers, according to the domestic real sector, according to the government. We'll get to that amendment, too. It was something that was life and that was real. You here assure me, in an explanation that you rejected the amendment of fellow governmental Jeremic to question three billion dinars of your subsidy. Debt settlement is ten times more effective and effective than state interventionism in the form of subsidies. That takes courage. There is no populism, it is reality, and it is life, and subsidies are populism, a form of state interventionism, which is a sick policy that has completely subdued and that you obviously abuse, because you are neither enough nor enough political courage, nor have the credibility to say – much more so, much more funds for development, much more financing jobs for anyone. Your businessmen ask you when you'll settle the 10 billion debt, and the total debt of the state is 110 billion. We didn't ask you to settle 110 billion, you can't ask them at this point, but we asked you to settle 10 billion debts to the real sector and that was possible. This is our idea, our ambition, and all day in today's debate, we will defend that attitude and that ambition of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61917	The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61918	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, for the SRS, it is unacceptable to accept this budget and we will not vote for it. In the principle debate, we cited basic reasons why we would not vote. The amendment I have made concerns part of staff expenditure, but not employees who do their job safely and responsibly, even on the contrary, they need to raise salaries, as salaries in the state administration, the state administration are very small, but are related to those institutions that are financed from the budget, where they are made far more than by civil servants and officials. This applies to agencies, directorates and all that is financed from the budget, and we know that these regulatory bodies, means state institutions have over 100, even according to some data they move up to 160. What Serbian citizens need to know is that around 535 000 workers, i.e. civil servants, officials and other paid persons, are financed from this budget. That's a huge number. That number must be reduced, reduced to a level that will be charged through real elections of income. Unfortunately, this government has done nothing to restructure the entire public system and change the system in relation to employees. According to this amendment, funds should be channelled into capital expenditure. Why? For the SRS, it is very important to preserve the volume of capital expenditure, due to the preservation of the economy, municipal infrastructure and the total size of the economic structure. It's the only way to keep what we have right now. I'll tell you that, according to the 2007 budget figures, 780m euros were allocated for capital expenditure. According to this budget rebalance, the amount has been reduced to 230m euros. Three times the funds for capital expenditure have been reduced. That's disastrous. We could hear from the prime minister, when the budget was adopted, that it was developmental, etc. This data clearly states that there is no development, that the capital expenditure of 230 million is very low and they will remain at this amount probably for 2012 and will be even smaller. I'm asking the Prime Minister one more time. I got two answers from the government with different numbers. I have to do it again. The parliamentary question I referred in April of this year – how much budget funding is foreseen for the repayment of the government debt, in response you tell me that 410 billion, these fine figures will not be read. Six months later, on September 30th of this year, I asked the same question, with the same content -- how much will the Republic of Serbia allocate to cover public debt for 2011? You're telling me-- 312 billion. How is that possible? I'm looking for an answer. I've prepared a third parliamentary question to get, if we know for ourselves the data we can find here in your budget, we're in charge, and according to this data for 2011, the total level of borrowing will be 552 billion. So far more than was planned for the 2011 budget. What's important is that the citizens of Serbia know? This is that what this country is making out for the short-term coverage of the government debt, the total amount is 331 billion, of which the loan payments are 312 billion, the repayment of capital to domestic lenders 278 billion, if we compare this to our capital expenditures of 23 billion dinars, only 7.5 to 8% are capital expenditures, what the state singles out and that for the repayment of loans to domestic and foreign lenders. This speaks of the disastrous situation of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. That's what it says about this country's overindebted debt. But if I bring out the data here as much as every year for securities of value, for interest paid per person and other expenses paid for securities of value, then we see that our allocations for securities alone are about half the amount for capital allocations, to talk about other credit obligations, long-term, medium-term and short-term. It speaks of a catastrophic situation and we cannot bear the consequences of such a socially irresponsible government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61919	National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61920	The esteemed presidency, Mr Cvetkovic, with the budget's rebalance, which you have proposed, is scheduled for the state to be further in debt and to increase its deficit in the budget to nearly a billion euros. The main feature of the deficit increase is, among other things, the increase in expenditure on government employees and the reduction in capital investment expenditure. Neither, nor the other, which I mentioned, which is the characteristic of this budget are absolutely unacceptable and not logical. For years, this country has been having problems, and all authorities that have changed since 2000 have discussed that we have too expensive a state and that it is absolutely unacceptable to further increase the number of employees in the state administration. In 2009, in the negotiations with the IMF, one of the key conditions for further extension of the fair arrangement with this fund was to reduce the number of employees in the state administration, and therefore, of course, to reduce the total public spending, to cut the salaries of employees, etc. This has been discussed for several months, in one period to reduce one number of people, large amounts of money were given for severances, and then next year, not that the same number was returned, but was further increased by several hundred, nearly a thousand people increased from 2009 to today. Only at the end of last year did your government approve the admission of 750 new officials, which further increased the expenditure on the salary budget, for the other staff costs, as foreseen in this budget rebalancing. Three times, the DSS applied for the adoption of state debt laws to various contractors of goods and services, on a mandatory payment period that should not be longer than three to six months, however, you did not once accept that this law was passed, even in this budget you provided that the debt to the economy be postponed and transferred in 2012 to show this deficit as it is of 142 billion dinars, and that the state had settled all obligations towards the economy, which owed that deficit would be much, much greater. Absolutely unacceptable is the behaviour of the government's laundry, which in addition to the huge debt, the huge deficit that it has made for all three years, has increased the payment deadlines for the economy, thus indirectly jeopardising both liquidity and economy and helping 500,000 people lose their jobs for these three years. The forecasts are, if it continues like this, and since it is in the budget, you predict that these deadlines will not be respected anytime soon, in terms of paying towards the economy, that another huge number of people will be out of a job. In the end I ask you, what does your government do? Does it aim to help the economy, to create a rational state and state administration, to reduce the costs of the administration or to continue in debt, to further increase the number of employees, expenditure on employees, to further increase public spending and to further increase the country's debt? You're all doing the opposite. I don't know what kind of personal example you and your government have given a signal that you want this country to be effective. You haven't reduced your personal consumption in the cabinets by a single dime. On the other hand, you increase your constant debt and deficit. You're prolonging the payment of the economy, destroying that same economy, and you're completely bringing the country to the brink of collapse. Indeed, it's really unacceptable, we don't even know how much this delay is going to cost today and how much it's going to cost us extra this budget, in terms of the blackmail given to you by the coalition partners. As long as this people suffers more from acting on the Alaford system, kidnapping the poor and giving to the rich. This is really unacceptable and I think the only way out of this, out of this dead end, is by your collective resignation and returning the country to some normal government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61921	What will the citizens decide? National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted together to the 1st amendment. Mr. Djuric wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61922	Dear Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The bill in which we asked for funds intended for expenditure, i.e. expenditure on employees in the state administration to be reduced by 7.5 billion dinars, i.e. to remain at the level of the planned budget level for 2011. It means that there is no increase in these funds, and on the other hand to increase economic subsidies by three and a half billion dinars and to increase agricultural subsidies by four billion dinars. Regardless of the IMF recommendations, to warn domestic experts and economists as well as to the declarative story of the Serbian government's representatives about the need to reduce public spending, about the need to increase capital investments, infrastructure investments, you make this budget rebalance the opposite. The main characteristics of this budget are an increase in the budget deficit by an additional 22 billion dinar. Increase public spending in the form of an increase in the funds for employees' earnings in the state administration. It is no wonder, my colleague Lapcevic, has already noted, given that the reception of new officials in the state administration is being held daily, on Thursday's daily list of "Politika" was a contest with several ministries, for the reception of several new dozens of employees. Almost every law adopted in this congregation involves the establishment of a new agency or a regulatory body to monitor and enforce the law. So for certain areas, we have two and even three regulatory bodies dealing with the same business. Here falls your story of reducing public spending, falling into the water law passed in this assembly about the maximum number of employees in the state administration that meant that the administration would decrease by about ten percent. The severances were paid, the others were accepted, and I think we now have more employees than at the moment of passing that law. On the other hand, you are reducing capital investment and investment in infrastructure, which is completely economically illogical in the context of the crisis, and what I am particularly concerned about is the delay in paying these capital investments. I have the impression that by postponing payments, you will completely touch the Serbian economy, to which the state from various levels of government owes over 100 billion dinars. So it's all the opposite of economic logic and the opposite of what even the government's representatives are saying. Therefore, public spending is increasing, capital investment and infrastructure investments are reducing. We have proposed to increase the funds for subsidies to businesses, although they have already been increased by budget rebalance. We believe that they should be further increased, as well as the increase in funding for agricultural subsidies, because we believe that these are priorities, when budget expenditures are at stake, and that these subsidies in agriculture and the economy can lead to the launch of some production, to improvements in exports, to decreases in the external trade deficit, to create some new jobs and to raise citizens' standards, not to increase public spending in terms of increased salaries of employees in the state administration. So I invite you to consider and accept this amendment that we have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61923	The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dobrislav Prelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Christin has tabled an amendment to Article 1. Mr Cvetkovic, in fact, is about funds to increase agricultural subsidies of one billion. The SRS believes that, above all, agriculture is a strategic branch in which each invested dinar would return five times to the Republic of Serbia. It's just amazing that, first of all, you, Mr. Cvetkovic, as the first man of the government, in these three and a half years you haven't simply shown an interest in our agriculture. We're witnessing it year after year, but it's amazing how you can't recognize what the general interest is. I think really agriculture deserves a lot more attention, but I'm sure you're aware of that fact, too. Which is why you don't want to help, I absolutely don't understand, when you know the full state of our agriculture and that agriculture is the only economic branch in which we make a surplus. The SRS believes that the surplus could have been twice as large, that our agriculture encountered only a little understanding when it comes to the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'll just remind you of a few things, especially when it comes to subsidies. It was founded, as you know, and the Agrarian Payments Agency, and I just don't see the purpose of that agency. That agency is tasked with helping our farmers. For thousands of examples, we can tell you where our farmers' demands have been denied for no reason. Believe it's such technical things and such little things, but the reason for the rejection is probably a lack of money in the budget, especially when it comes to subsidies and when it comes to agriculture. Since we had this government reconstruction, when the minister became Dusan Petrovic, nor can we as MPs see him here in the reconstruction of the government, nor can our farmers see him. What he does, where he is, what his obligations are, I really don't understand. What is amazing is that the other day at a meeting, he said the agriculture ministry would strongly support three major companies in Serbia. Mr. Cvetkovic, you must know that these are three monopoly companies that dictate everything in Serbia when it comes to our agriculture. Here, first of all, I mean Victoria Group, MK Komertz, Delta Agrar. You know that the disparity price in our agriculture is absolutely incorrect, or unacceptable for our agriculture and that these three companies absolutely dictate everything to us. The Ministry of Agriculture, of course, helps them, it was when mineral fertiliser subsidies were at stake, of 10 billion, but I just can't believe that in that way you help and promote monopolies, and then it's passed on to agricultural production and to the processing industry and absolutely in all segments there's a monopoly, only nobody thinks about the manufacturer, and we want our agriculture to move forward. You don't have to know everything and you can't make it, but you have to know that the privatisation of our agricultural combinations is largely done in a caratically, that foreigners are the owners of our agricultural land. We will not pretend that we do not know that "Agrokor" from Zagreb is the owner of "Diamant" from Zrenjanin and that we have another 20,000 acres of farmland owned. Our law said unequivocally that a stranger cannot own agricultural land. I think it's high time for you, Mr. Prime Minister, to react and to call your senses and help our peasant, absolutely our agriculture has no support from this government, but I sincerely hope that everything you've done in this period will be adequately rewarded in the next election and that people will know that they recognize the right option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61925	It's been used five minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61926	This Article 1 clearly shows the structure of this budget, i.e. the change and addition of the current budget, so that this part of the subsidy is to be paid attention. When you look at everything and what figures are provided for in certain areas, then what falls into the eyes is the amount the government has defined for subsidies in agriculture, which is somewhere around 3,750,000 dinars, and there is also an item where they are intended, and the item is called – other subsidies, which is almost 12 billion dinars. This very well illustrates the government's concern for Serbia's economy. You're talking about the terrible consequences of the economic crisis and the standard of citizens and the economy, and we have here an item that speaks of other subsidies where you can't even see clearly what it is, which is almost four times larger than the subsidies provided for in the economy. He's saying that enough for himself. With this amendment, we propose to increase the amount of 5 billion dinars from this item where these famous subsidies are, from that item in the item - transfers to municipalities and cities. I remember the exposés of the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, and the current finance minister, and when I use the plural, then I talk about that first exposé when he became Prime Minister and the second exposé when he spoke about the reconstructed government, only a few months ago, he always talked about how this government would advocate more even regional development. That's all that's left of it. So, it is declarative, you will advocate even regional development, however, there is nothing of it. The municipalities and cities are getting poorer, and this government has also reduced transfers to local self-government by, according to estimates of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, around 42 billion are less transfers to local self-government. Like I said, never again stories and never less money for municipalities and cities. We had some laws here that were tampering with Serbia into some administrative regions, all under the story of how Serbia needs decentralisation. That's right. Serbia needs strong municipalities and strong cities, with much more money than you single out.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61927	It was used three minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Cvetkovic, the SRS also intervened in Article 1 in Article 4 in the section relating to the National Investment Plan. I have to wait because I don't have instantaneous communication with Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Cvetkovic, can you pay attention? (President: I ask you to use your time and leave the session to the chairman, about whether all participants respect the Rules of Procedure. I warn you that you are using your time to explain the amendments, not for a job that you are not currently in charge of as you explain the amendment. My job as an MP is to ask the prime minister a specific question, given this intervention we have made. (President: I'm warning you now. So it's your job to explain the amendment, in accordance with a member who obliges you to speak on the subject of the agenda. The prime minister's questions are being asked the last quarter of the month or Tuesdays and Thursdays before the session, and this is an argument from which he can and does not have to have a discussion. Therefore I ask you, without abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I'll give you enough argument, and we'll see what kind of epilogue he'll be. So we intervened at the National Investment Plan because for the SRS and most of the presidents of municipalities and cities in Serbia where they felt on their skin and on projects that were in the haze, which were promised by the ministry, is the dark side of Serbia's budget, which has been sort of a political project G 17 since 2007. We have reacted so in this article, Mr Cvetkovic, you see, what we have transferred three million funds from the division of the National Investment Plan to the current budget reserves. What did we do that for? We did so first because we believe that the commitments the Government of the Republic of Serbia has towards the creditors and that they exceed these three million, which we have so transferred. I could talk about it through a series of examples, but, on the other hand, it's very difficult. And if there were no funds in this budget to pay off all claims against those owed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is impossible for you to perform personally, as prime minister and as the man who runs this portfolio because it does not allow you to do so by the IMF. In fact, you know very well that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia there are people from the IMF who control the collection of these claims and this attempt to help the Government pay off its obligations to those who are looking for these funds, it will simply not be enforceable, because those in the IMF treat us with their baton and how it will be budgeted and how you design it and why you can't define the funds and can't, I say, be responsible for paying off any claims until they give you the green light. Mr Cvetkovic, it is a question of the collection of these claims -- how this list of priorities is at all, how it is established, and who knows which order it will be, the court's executive decision or the solution it has from another authority, to come at any time on the charge. As for the NIP and one project that was supposed to be, which is a pre-election promise primarily made by Boris Tadic and Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic, is already completed, it is a project to complete the Kragujevac-Batocin highway. In fact, you know that it was done in two strips of 12 kilometers that way in the direction of Kragujevac towards Batocina, that there were nine kilometers left. It is a project exclusively of the National Investment Plan for which we of the SRS have repeatedly sought and asked, with this institute that Mrs. Komic mentioned, the question - when and what auditor will give us a report on how these funds are being spent and what is the effect of the existence of this National Investment Plan in general? Of course, we've never received such a report on either the Finance Committee or you as prime minister. Now we're in a situation where what's the key to this famous Memorandum and the Fiat factory in Kragujevac, which is building the remaining section of the highway, the nine kilometers, is not finished at all. So, by March of the month was a promise, or at the end of last year, because those 12 kilometers that were made from Kragujevac towards Batočina, Mrs Kalanovic and Veroljub Stevanović cut the tapes on seven occasions, but now the question is – why is this not done? Are you manipulating these funds from the NIP, is there any other problems and how you're going to go to your Italian partners who are mass-released these days, although they can't do it under the agreement to take over with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and people with high school supplies and everyone else, they're blackmailing them to leave the car factory, to take some money back, to hire others, to take from the labor bureau, like Jura does, a certain amount of funds and, in principle, - take or leave, so now they're blackmailing people in the car factory "Fiat" Kragujevac. So, the question arises who is responsible for this, whether only the NIP or a certain Radisa Milosevic, called Duda, who is otherwise an DS official in Šumadia, the President of Batocin Municipality, and why did you deceive the citizens of Kragujevac and the citizens of Batocina, and where are these funds? What's worse in all of this, if it were just a lie would somehow have been filed, so it's said, there were perhaps some problems about expropriation, the deadline has been extended, but it's about that, Mr. Cvetkovic, that those nine kilometers that need to be completed and that should be the main project to connect with the corridor, there will be no highway, as promised and as the funds were initially defined, rather than the first row, and the difference is huge. You're probably a driver, and you know there's colleagues in the O.R. and all the citizens of Serbia who follow this, so it's not a two-track road trip, it's an extended road, it can't be driven like this stock that's been done, 120 kilometers an hour, it's 80 and it's a complete lie and deception. The NIP served and served first and foremost the G17 for political projects and programmes, as this story about the United Regions of Serbia serves, and you will see when this law on the financing of local self-government comes into effect since January 2012, how much you lied to the presidents of the municipalities and cities and thus the citizens of Serbia. It won't be with such a collapse in the budget possible to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61929	Five minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Bojan Djuric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61930	Dear People's MPs, since the debate was concluded by the first member, I would like to make a few comments and answer the questions that were. First of all, it should be understood that this first member represents a recapitulation of the digits that follow from the detailed design given in Article 4. Therefore, it is not possible to make any change in the recapitulation without them being made in the basic text, because that basic text is actually a budget, and you can recapitulate in very different ways. In this context, any reduction or increase in the recapitulation itself implies the need to define in the basic text what it is and where it is reduced. Therefore, these positions cannot and must not be aggregated but very precisely defined and that is one of the reasons why a good number of amendments has been rejected. Also, you have several amendments that have gone towards reducing pay positions and with some conclusion that public spending is large, etc., that the number of employees is too high. First of all, I want to say that this government, when it comes to the number of employees, has respected the law on the reduction of the number of employees and we have a reduced number of employees in the administration and that number is in line with the legal limits imposed by this National Assembly. At the same time, we view public spending as its participation in GDP, and in this context it is important to see that this budget reduces them compared to the previous year by more than 1% compared to GDP. Of course, if any MP, whether it's a position or opposition, has an idea of how to further reduce wages, etc., I think it would be good to elaborate more. We felt that, when it comes to salaries, there must be respect for the Law on Salaries and that some general reduction would be totally unacceptable in this context and this budget, but since we have amendments on these issues, here, I call on Members of Parliament to give exactly how much they would reduce wages and whether they think that wages are really so high when we know how hard people live. There was also a series of questions that I didn't understand regarding Article 1. I would have answered them very briefly, since some kind of confusion is being created about whether the government is through these so-called so-called. Eurobonds worked in accordance with the law or whether this assembly was informed or not. So, the MP who raised those questions, I want to tell him that he was completely wrong, given the budgets that exist. In the current budget there is an intended debt for bonds and he can find it there, so the government has actually realised what this National Assembly has already adopted. At the same time, the figure of a billion that is mentioned refers to dollars, not euros, and in this context, it is now reduced to 700 and some million euros, not a billion, because the bonds were not sold in euros, but in dollars, and what they are called Eurobonds, so someone thinks it's the euro mark of the currency. The euro is not a currency mark, it is a sign that the bonds sold on the euro market, i.e. on the international market. So you can also have Eurobonds in dinars and that's something that also makes a lot of sense to think about. Finally, the liquidity of the banking sector is not protected by selling bonds on the euro market, but rather by avoiding competition from the banking sector compared to the economy. So the state doesn't want to be a competitor of the economy, because it's always more attractive to banks and in that context it's retreating to another foreign market, and not here, otherwise it has nothing to do with the liquidity of banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61931	The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has the word, and the People's Messenger Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61932	Let's start with this latest finding of yours about the banking sector. The banking sector in the last year has been under the control of the National Bank and the Government, and it has only come out of those normal banking business frameworks. Banks are no longer in business, banks are engaged in purchases of government securities of value. Why? Because the need for the state to sell these securities is of value, and on the other hand, we have banking that instead of financing the economy and projects of the economy is far safer doing all these banking business with the state, at more interest rates. We have to make a note of that. The securities of value are being sold. Right now, we're second at the rate of interest that we pay to banks, the banking system, between 12.5 at the beginning of the year, here's now when a little longer time period is six months or a year, up to 14%, which is unacceptable. On the other hand, if we look at BiH, twice as much. If we look at Croatia somewhere below 5%. If we look at other countries in the environment, such as Romania, Bulgaria, even below 4%, not to say it's about 1.5% to 2% in Europe. That's disastrous. It has been a disaster to kidnap the economy of the possibility of taking credit because it is far more acceptable for the banking system to invest funds in state securities of value. You're talking about wages. We're telling you a long time ago about the agency's salaries, the director's, the directory, it's somewhere over 200,000 dinars. Reduce them, help other government workers, who have 17, 18, and 20,000 dinars, or, part of the funds that will be saved through the shutting down of certain agencies, the creation of a complex system in which 10 agencies will be found in one. A reduction in the number of workers, that way it will be saved. We've synthetically shown it in Article 1, we've done it on purpose to show that it can be done through that term. You say he can't. You got it. You got it. You got it. It is to withdraw it analytically in Article 4 of certain shifts, but it is quite normal, thus showing the essence of how to get out of this crisis, only two ways – by reducing the number of agencies, that is, by saving in such a way and by increasing the work. That's what all states do, but that's not what we do. Next, the number of workers. You know for a fact that you've limited your level by your proposal, maximumed. The law is called about the maximum number of workers in the state administration, 28,400, you're currently funding over 30,000, and you don't even know how much you're funding through the labour contract. Now I invite you to tell me how much you have in the state institutions of employed workers doing business through a contract of action. The next thing you have to talk about, it's a deficit. This level of deficit is unacceptable from the aspect of security and economic and economic security, etc. You can't do it anymore. If we just take the 2008 memorandum, when you were planning a 0.1 deficit in 2011 somewhere at the level of three billion dinars, we now have 142 billion. Do you see how many years we've missed? What will be in 2011, 2012, 2013 etc? How do you get out of all this? Without saving you can't, without the greater work of all the authorities of the state institutions you can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61933	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61934	Very short. Dear People's MP, you said the banking sector is completely out of control of the government and you're right, the government should not control the banking sector. The banking control body is the NBS. If the government got involved in this, we'd be making a complete mess of it. As for the bond, I thank you for the support you gave us, because that was exactly what our idea was, that we were even competing, so companies, and that's why we showed up on the foreign market. We left this market to the companies competing with each other, so I can see that we have one common approach here. As for interest, of course, we can discuss their height, but there is some connection between the interest rate and the inflation rate. I'm talking about dinar interest. If inflation in April was 14% year-on-year, until over 10% a month ago, then interest rates between 12-13% are not really high. I expect that after inflation has fallen to 9.3% and continues to fall, it will also pull back the rate to be paid for state papers. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that in fact, not the vault, but the NBS will always hold papers through the so-called so-called. repo surgery. Finally about the agency's salary and the director's, we're talking budget here. A huge number of these agencies, if not all, are not budget users and we cannot work through the budget to cut their salaries. We've launched an initiative, to remind you, and we think some wages are too high. This initiative has also given certain effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61935	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61936	Do I have a replica? They're misread words. Mr. Prime Minister, don't twist the words of the MPs. No one said that the state administration's salary was reduced, but that the spending on government officials' salaries was reduced. Total income is multiplied by the number of employees. So, to reduce the number of employees in the state administration. What is the Law on the Restriction of Number of Civil Service Employees, which we brought in two years ago, if it is being violated, if the Government directly violates it on the maximumization and reduction of state administration employees? How much severance did we pay people two years ago to cut that number of employees? I personally know at least five people who worked at the state administration, the state administration, took severances, and now they're doing the same thing to you on a much bigger scale, according to the deed contract. Then what's it for? So how do we reduce that public spending if we give people severances, and now we pay them back? It has been invented into dozens of new jobs in a Serbian district. You allowed at the end of last year, in your plan, to receive 750 new people. It's again an increase in public spending on employees. We're not talking about getting paid. Far from that, they're minimal. Don't make as much spending as possible in that state administration based on the number of employees. You don't pay the economy, and this is where you talk about, that you didn't want to do a bear service to the economy, so you sold a billion dollars on the international market through euro bonds. You're not saying that you've sold 300 billion dinars of national paper on the domestic market before, so you've increased interest rates on domestic banks. When you talk about it, you really need to stick to what the facts are and what the truth is, not to deceive the public through what does not stand, or by ignoring the truth and the fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61937	Two minutes and 20 seconds. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61938	Dear People's Messenger, you didn't hear me. At the very beginning, I said that when it comes to the number of employees, we fully respect the law passed by this National Assembly. We've executed a reduction in the number of employees. If you think that it should be reduced even more, and not reduced wages, then give that proposal, in which sectors, in which services to reduce and how many people to reduce and, I'm willing to consider it and see if it makes sense and whether there's a possibility of not jeopardizing the functioning of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61939	The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has the word, and the People's Messenger Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61940	Here's a concrete proposal. The privatisation agency started with 30 workers since 2002, when you were there, and now there are over 400 workers and countless consultants. We don't have any serious privatisation after 2008. She, in fact, ended in 2008. We know there are still privatisations, but I don't think that's gonna be more than 10 of those privatisations this year. The number of workers has not been reduced. The level of gross earnings of this agency is at the level of the funds allocated for employment – start up loans. When we synthetically show how much gross earnings it has been since 2002 and when we show what the real effect it would be if those funds were used for employment. Then it would be thousands of workers who were denied the possibility, just because the agency was formed. There's no need for 400 workers right now. Why are 400 workers in this agency who are not performing their essential role, which is privatising social, or state-owned enterprises right now?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61941	One minute and 15 seconds. National MP Milan Lapcevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61942	You're talking about respecting that law. Then how do competitions be constantly explored to receive new people? Why did you let 750 people and officials join the state administration last year? How, then, are they increased in each budget and each rebalancing amounted to as employee expenditure, if the maximum number of employees is respected? And this, not for small amounts to increase – 3%, 4% for the lowest incomes, but for much higher amounts. Answer my question – what is your priority? Is it a priority for the state to carry out its commitments to the economy, or is it a priority to hire people in the state administration and to raise their salaries? Look at the salary of the Securities Agency. Ask the Director of the Agency's salary, her associates and clerks.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61943	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61944	When it comes to salaries and what you see is that their figure is now higher than it was, it is higher under the law that predicts that wages are increasing according to inflation, and that percent is still being added to a certain part of GDP growth, and in particular, it is 50% of the growth. As far as the question is concerned, do we respect the law? I claim we respect it. Of course, I didn't think this was a debate about the number of employees. But we can prepare the data to see how much the law gives us as an obligation, and how many employees there are. I claim that the number of employees is smaller than the number allowed by the law. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61945	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61946	I thank you, Mrs. Comic, Mr. Cvetkovic and ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, member 2 defines the level of the budget deficit and the ways in which the deficit is filled. I have proposed an amendment laying down the government's obligation to regularly inform the Assembly every month of the implementation of the budget deficit. I was told in an explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Government, or the Ministry of Finance, is issuing a public finance bulletin, and data can be found on the Internet site – macroeconomic data. You agree that notifying the National Assembly about the deficit and something published in an internal note is not the same thing. Not to mention that a public funding bulletin comes out a few months late compared to the current month. That's two completely different things. One is informing the congregation, and the other is gathering information in all other ways. Where the question arises, when we talk about Article 2 and the deficit, that's what the real deficit is, what are these obligations that the government has made to the economy and to all those who have done some kind of service to the government, if the government hasn't paid them? We don't have that information. It also affects the height of the deficit, and that's also important when we determine what the obligations are. The second thing, what can be seen by analysing Article 2, is the way the deficit is financed, which is the broadcasting of securities of value, whether they have been sold on the domestic market, whether in dinars, whether in euros, whether they are sold on the euro market, that is, from year to year, that amount is growing more. This year it reached 550 billion dinars, which is not a deficit, but it takes 550 billion resources to make anything work at all. The second thing that's visible is that the cost of financing that deficit is increasing and increasing. This year it's only for interest, so no principal and no other, 42 billion dinars. The third thing, it can be formal and it is in accordance with the law, but you didn't convince us that borrowing is to keep the money on the bill justifiable. So one is a precautionary arrangement for the IMF in case the crisis gets worse, but what are the assessments you've made, which I assume the government has made, that it needs to be in charge? At the end of August, there were 67 billion dinars and more of these issued bonds. According to what we got from the fiscal council, it's about 140-150 billion dinars, how much it's going to be on the bill. All that money gets paid interest. That's supposed to be a settlement deficit by the end of the year. We've received word from your ministry that the next few days will be a new record show again of a few dozen billion. What strategy is that? That's not what we got the data on. As an authorised representative, I'll just go back to Article 1, because I didn't want to answer when the Prime Minister talked about it. Article 1 would not have been as formally watched, Mr. Cvetkovic, as you have observed. Far from being a budget recapitulation. That's exactly what we need to talk about. It's the structure of the budget. It's a much more important thing and it's not an accounting category. That's the point we need to talk about here. You will agree, when we look at individual items, here, to take your ministry, the Ministry of Finance, the compensation for employees – 50 million, subsidies to private enterprises – three billion and 700, land – 645 million, and there is no explanation. That's where 645 million were said. What are those funds for? Are we going to talk about every item then? Let's come to a situation where some other parliaments, where the board budget is being discussed for several months, not just at the plenary session and not a few days before the budget, but several months are going from item to item. Unfortunately, we cannot discuss the items, because the budget has several hundred sides, and the arguments have a dozen sides. There would be no story of the number of employees if you put a table in the budget that was in the previous budgets with the number of employees. Then it would be quite clear, the government would stand behind it – in the state sector, in the government there are so many employees. Is it less, is it more, whether it's in accordance with the law, not in accordance with the law, it says in the explanation, we don't have to waste time on that. We here need to talk about exactly the things you formalize. It's essential stuff, and so is that agency thing. The agencies aren't part of the budget. You pass on public authority, someone determines mandatory fees and binding fees, so it's not on the budget. It doesn't have to be in the budget. Here, somebody get permission to set up a ramp on the terraces, they'll never be on the budget. Let him charge for the transfer via the Terrace, see if he should be on the budget. It's not such a simplified thing, things are much more serious than they look.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61947	It was used three minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61948	Dear Mr Cvetkovic, it is truly surprising that such an amendment, as proposed by counterpart Radojko Obradovic, was not accepted. What is seen when the Budget Law is adopted and budget rebalancing laws are passed, and the budget rebalancing, if we are to interpret the very content of the concept, implies a return to the balance of something that has obviously fallen out of balance, therefore, that you are avoiding as a Government to discuss it in parliament, and especially about the deficit of the budget, on the budget deficit. The budget deficit data in Serbia are alarming. Serbia cannot ignore one such information, and this particular home, which should, by the logic of things, be above the government, because the close majority of these governments have received the confidence of this home to have this budget, to manage it on behalf of the citizens, therefore, we believe that the government is obliged to put before citizens and representatives of citizens at all times information about how this budget deficit and budget is managed. This is what this amendment has proposed and this is what, according to some logical trail of things, was acceptable to the government, absolutely acceptable to go out regularly with the report to parliament. Serious governments, I will give only one example of Poland, are already handing over the budget in September, and are adopting it somewhere in January. Serious governments don't even know the concept of budget rebalancing. The moment he shows up, they fall. So the government is expected to have at least a year ahead of schedule things and manage them. Yes, Serbia is in a difficult economic situation, but this government has made a commitment to itself, it has been recommended that it will be able to manage it, at least in one year, and we obviously see that this government has failed to meet its recommendations, even though the elections are close, I think you have lost confidence much earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61949	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, she submitted 21 MPs to the Prosperity Group of Serbia. MP Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61950	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the Prime Minister and Finance Minister have already touched one of my discussions on Article 1, Mr. Cvetkovic, I can only speak what public data are available to me and I believe that the National Bank website is public data. There is no borrowing in dollars, but it says that the biggest income in the euro is 724 million and from the sale of euro bonds. If you were selling that, or buying dollars, Mr. Cvetkovic, it seems to me that 3% of the rate difference has already been lost. So, just because of the exchange rate differences, 21m euros is some major debt right now. I think it's crazy to go to that store, especially if we don't need it. Is that what the 2011 Budget Law is for? You can interpret the laws any way you want, we've seen it many times already. As you need it, you will say – it is understood. If there is something in the 2011 Budget Law, why does this not include budget rebalances for 2011 as well? It says here that from receiving the euro emissions, State charters will be released to the foreign market, in domestic and foreign currency, in the range of up to 102 billion dinars. Does such a person have the authority for the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the Budget Law? There isn't. When it comes to banks and bank control, I agree that the banking market needs to be as liberal as possible, especially when it comes to bank business policy. But let's take a look at what all these banks have been doing a couple of years ago and what this government could have done, not getting business in banks, done, and didn't. The first problem that had arisen with the banking sector, when it became competition with the economy, was in a period when it was not necessary to borrow the state at all. It was often credits, i.e. often issued state securities of value although there was no legitimate need. That's even you in that famous 2008 budget, one in the deficit, and the other in the surplus, let's say, sort of fixed. Between 2005, 2006 and 2007, the reference rate was 16, 17 and 18%. The state owed 22-23% and citizens even more. The economy is about the same as the citizens. It is nothing but a primary show in virtual form, because money is not only what is printed but also what is in the accounts of businesses, banks and other institutions. The money the banks made from the state and made from citizens through high loans, high interest rates during 2010, for about 2.5 billion euros, has disappeared from Serbia. And so much has been reduced by our foreign exchange reserves. Then we are now forced to be in charge of a foreign market under more unfavourable conditions than we did with some of our banks, because if you look at Article 3 we see that there are some interest rates of 3%, 4% plus euribor, etc. So that's the problem. Someone might say it's not the government's job in Serbia. According to the NBS law, which was valid until a year and a half ago, and the Foreign Market Act, the control tasks were also carried out by the NBS. Under the 2008 government law, it was transferred to the RS government's jurisdiction, i.e. the finance ministry. Can anyone tell me where any such logic is coming from, because no single dinar, not a single euro, can get out of the country without a NBS service. It's impossible. But it came to that solution when stories of money laundering "Hypo-Alpe-Adria" bank via Montenegro, Serbia and Hungary began. The governor at the time didn't do his job, transferred it to the Ministry of Finance, which was not responsible at the time and no one was guilty. And now, under the pretext of the liberalisation of the banking sector, under the pretext that it is not in accordance with WTO regulations, which we are not even a member of, even though we continue like this, we will never be, because we will have nothing to sell to them, except to buy from them, we are now entering problems like this. So now we're forced to be in debt under more unfavourable interest. It would be fair to know the deadlines for paying off those loans. Today, the EU is at the top of its crisis. If this occurs in four or five years, and realistic assumptions are that in four or five years, the euro will stabilise, and we are in debt in other currencies, what will it look like? What will be the cost, did we make a profit or a loss? When it comes to other attitudes that we asked for to be deleted, it's a consolidated account of the vault. All right, I understand that there's a need for the government to intervene somewhere, that there are budgetary users who simply don't get to spend or at that point have free resources, but I can't understand that it's not an obligation to come back by the end of the fiscal year, because in the consolidated account of the Treasury there are both local self-governments and they're taking loans and they're in debt, and maybe they arrive to not spend, maybe they've allocated funds. This cannot be one particular policy because of poor estimates or poor budget costs. When you say the government debt is being viewed against the gross product, I believe you're absolutely right. But in the part where you say it's less than the previous year, only in nominal terms is bigger, it's in percentage less, Mr. Minister, Prime Minister, if so, why is the tax side of your spending not out of profits but out of consumption reduced? Your tax revenue is less tax revenue on extra value and this proves that something is wrong with the Republic Bureau of Statistics, which claims to you contrary and gives you such a huge increase in gross domestic product. So they're not just all statistical methods. The most real situation in the country is when you see how many countries in goods and services consumption make revenue, then we have the right value of our gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61951	Six minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61952	Article 2 is subject to an amendment that reduces the broadcasting of government securities from value and limits to 200 billion dinars in this budget, although it is provided for in Article 2 that the broadcasting of government securities of value, which are mainly sold on the domestic market, will be at 400 billion dinars, as set out in Article 2(2). We believe it is absolutely harmful for the state of Serbia to issue such securities of value in this amount, because these charters are of value at a very high interest rate and represent a huge cost to the state of Serbia. Only for interest rates, the state spends half a billion euros a year, which is absolutely inaccessible from the point of view of huge public spending, which your government has in no way even tried, nor symbolically, to reduce. When you show me in which ministry you've reduced at least for any service, agency, direct cost, direct public spending, then we can have an understanding of these government moves. Otherwise, we think it's absolutely harmful and inadmissible, especially if it's given that money doesn't usually go to support the economy. On the contrary, the economy suffers huge damages because the state does not pay its obligations, and then a chain is created where only banks profit in the whole story. In case the state sells securities of value, banks are taken because interest rates are high. In case the state doesn't pay the economy, the economy has to take loans from banks to cover its business, you're paying big interest again. In the whole story, it's a loser state, population and economy. The only winners in that story are bankers who have huge profits. For us, this is absolutely unacceptable and we believe that it is necessary to limit the state in that amount of credit and the sale of state securities from value.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61953	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Zoran Nikolic submitted the 2nd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61954	We have submitted this amendment and, in principle, it could continue to tell some stories of the predecessors. Some things really don't make sense around here. We asked for section 6 and 7 to be deleted. The planned borrowing incomes are greater than the funds needed to finance the deficits, debt payments, etc., and now listen to this genius sentence: "increase the cash from this member's account, it is necessary for responsible liquidity management". Then drop down two, three low-level positions and government gentlemen predict that in 2011 for any needs to finance the budget deficit and payments, the funds of the consolidated account of the Serbian Treasury can be used up to the amount not jeopardising the liquidity of the account. If you provided extra funds, as you said earlier, why would you withdraw money from a consolidated account? Yes, and it's no problem to withdraw money from a consolidated account, why don't you gentlemen commit yourself to returning it? With what right do you take something to keep you from returning, and something else you might need? Why didn't you predict this attitude in the 2011 budget? So you can pass it on next year, but now you've got it in your head. What you didn't predict then, and now it's happened, so here's the attitude. In principle, we have submitted this amendment, or we have proposed to delete attitudes 7 and 6, or 6 because of attitude 7. Look at the DRI analysis earlier. As the departments acted, they have no idea who owes them. They don't care if they're looking for loans from the Republika Srpska budget to various users. Am I right, Mr. Cvetkovic? Were those DRI's findings? They're government manners. What you're informing me of in an explanation that you refused the amendment. These are our internal things, paraphrasing these are internal loans and we will define them in relation to the reference interest rate, etc. What are you? Bankers? It's not your job. It's the work of the National Bank of Serbia. What are you? Is there a sound economic policy and household behaviour or the application of the Budgetary System Act? No, what's the problem? If you're so sure of yourself, in your politics, in everything you're doing, why would Borka transfer the debt for next year? Why did you see this coming? My question now, Mr. Cvetkovic, to you if it's all the way you talk here and out, what's the problem in this country? Where's the trouble in this country when it's all the way you represent it? It's coming from a field, from an environment. Why are you taking us to this environment? Why is politics your way into the environment from which all our problems come? Another question, will there be anyone from your government who will admit to a problem, a mistake or ignorance? To say yes, that's not good. We didn't do a good job here. No, everything's great, everything's great, everything's great, and they're true, not nominal, but real indicators are devastating. So we think it would be useful if you accepted this. Whether or not you will, we believe that you will not decide according to what is useful for the budget or for the fiscal system and fiscal reality, but what is the need for your political relations in the government but I hope that all this will not last long, so maybe Serbia will get a different chance to manage its finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61955	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61956	Mr. First Minister, you know very well that in the Budgetary System Act it is clearly defined that no one in the state can spend a single pair, that it is not defined by a certain statement in the budget. In this article, you predicted, in paragraph 2, "planned loans based on borrowing are more than funds needed to finance deficits, pay off debt and purchase of financial assets, amounting to 87.5 billion. "Then further in item 3, you say, "an increase in the cash from the 2nd article's position, in the account is necessary for responsible liquidity management. "What does that mean to you now? Where did you put this item into the budget that you have the right to place these funds under the Budgetary System Act, if that's excess, why are you taking the surplus? Why do you pay such high interest on such huge funds? Eighty-seven billion for, say, six months, on interest of about 13%, so you see what the funds are? This is extremely irresponsible, this is contrary to the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on Budgets and other regulations and harmful to Serbia's interests, to drain funds without clear purpose. That you put here to manage liquidity, etc. It must be an item in the budget, which means it and where those funds will eventually be transferred. To take them, just to meet someone, pay a bank 13-14%, look, it's a felony?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61957	Together, MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Jankovic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61958	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, therefore, the amendment of the NS Parliamentary Group is almost identical with the amendment submitted by the SRS Group, and I will not repeat myself and say that I almost fully agree with what they have put forward, defending their amendment, I will only complement what we in the amendment, insisting that this position 7 be deleted, which reads: "If, in the course of the year, the reception of the privatisations is secured, the credit sources and emissions of state charters will be reduced proportionally from the values of the first member's position will be deleted. "So we are in the second half of October, and it would really be interesting to see what privatisations that could affect both the budget and the reduction of this budget deficit, which is why we felt it would be very appropriate to delete this position, as well as this previous position of 6 in this article. It is precisely because we believe that the budget deficit is one of the most serious issues that the government is plagued by, and of course tortures citizens of the Republic of Serbia and creates real problems. We face daily this kind of privatization as is being conducted, from those promised many jobs, more and more people are being left unsent, we see firms in bankruptcy, and one interesting piece of information has turned my attention in the paper these days, that one bankruptcy manager runs 22 firms and receives millions of figures for his job. The bankruptcy means a lot of people without employment at the same time, a lot of people without real income, a lot of families entering this winter without any means of certainty, so we thought that one of these positions, in Article 2, couldn't stand. We believe the government had to delete it, accept either the SRS amendment, or at least the NS amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61959	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I started this topic at the beginning of this debate today, and in principle it had to be textual, this proposal had to be textually entered into this article of the law, according to what we proposed through the figures, which is that ten billion dinars, the amount of the debt of the Republic of Serbia's budget to goods and services producers in the Republic of Serbia, should be settled by the end of this year. In this regard, we proposed this: "The unsettled commitments of the Republic budget towards domestic goods and services producers will be executed from the reserve position according to the laid down rules in the special act of the Government to which consent is given by the Assembly Committee on Finance. The deadline for the adoption of acts referred to in the previous position shall be 30 days from the date of entry into force of this law. "Look what the government people have explained to me, why the amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the amendment proposes a regulation that could apply to the coming financial years, and therefore could not be subject to the annual budget law. I wish Mr. Cvetkovic were here to tell me where it says it in this amendment. Everything in this document will only be valid until December 31st, and so will what we have suggested. So it's completely false that we've proposed documents that would be valid for 2012, 2013, 2015, and you know why? Because we asked them to settle the debt by the end of this year. We didn't say the dates, the rules, or anything else, we even proposed this right by law to the Government of the Republic of Serbia in which we don't trust each other, and because of the fact that we don't trust them and that they are prone to abuse, we asked them to agree that the Committee on Finance. We're not saying that the government's decision would not be supported by the majority of the Finance Committee, but it would be a better chance to go public or as you like to say, modernly, that would be transparent, so the government's act of priorities, which by dynamic means and in what way would finance and reconcile obligations, would be really defined in one way, to say, some kind of public debate. Is it better if I can call her under quotes, public debates than when a document comes either to the assembly committee or to parliament? This showed rationality and correctness. Here's the problem of political will. You won't settle your debts, because you think those who are now financing the budget, whose skin you are yelling at, can still endure it. You've secured yourself, you've put the state in charge of your five billion-euro mandate, you've covered yourself by the end of this government's term by increasing public debt on behalf of a loan from abroad, and you don't care, and then the representatives of the government come and say, fiscal reality. That's not true. You say further – in accordance with Article 69. The budget system law, part of the planned revenue, is not allocated in advance, but is maintained on behalf of the current budget reserve. Well, that's what we've been proposing, except here it obliges you that the amount of funds you plan on on the current budget reserve is not more than 1.5% of total income and income. Our amendments have defined this limit by law. You're informing us in an explanation that this is not the law, or that we're not planning forward funds. Well, the funds of the reserve also serve when something is not projected at the posts of the ministry and other users to intervene. Please, gentlemen, intervene from your ministry positions, finance your debts and your obligations. You should know one thing - 30% of total business duties went to VAT financing. You don't care about that. The government gentlemen are sitting in warm benches. When it's warm out there, they're cold, when it's cold out there, they're warm. They don't care, God, they don't care about wages, and they're even less concerned about taxes and contributions, whether the employer paid them, and it's all going nicely. Those who make value, whose coat of arms they pay VAT, take VAT, don't care about them, they can suffer and wait and then boast here and subsidize. What kind of subsidies? By someone coming from another country, from a country that doesn't give him the subsidies you're offering him. You will finance his jobs, and you will not settle your obligations for the services and goods you have taken as Government. What's irrational about this? Is there better injections to relieve the pressure of indifference in Serbia? There isn't. It doesn't exist. Half of these 10 billion dinars we've proposed would be returned directly to your budget. That day we spoke – 500 billion dinars owe 100 people in Serbia, 300 billion dinars owe them, and I don't know how much they are and what they are. You don't want to go in their pocket, you don't come in your head. That's two deficits in this country. You mustn't stand up to them. Well, if you can't stand up to them, I really believe there will be political parties and governments and individuals who can deal with them. Why is it that at least those with whom the government does not have such relations do not settle those obligations? What's the problem? Each first charge is VAT. Mr Cvetkovic said just now – you know, public consumption does not grow in total size. It is not a question of how much public spending is at this point, the question is what about VAT revenues and those revenues are being built into inflation, which is the largest on the European continent, and your revenues are falling. That's the information Mr Cvetkovic needs to explain. How can inflation grow, the largest on the European continent, and income taxes fall? We're all down. This inflation is also being built into the domestic gross product, so our GDP is growing. How's the revenue coming down? It's not the same VAT per 100 and 110 dinars, it's bigger than 110 dinars. How do they fall? They're falling because jobs are shutting down, because production is dropping, because they're cheating on the public, the citizens and the MPs that our foreign trade balance is better because we've increased the production volume. It's not true, but they're playing a game with the prices of goods they've exported to a greater extent than they should, but we're going to get all that talk through this law and some laws that will come from tomorrow. Therefore, the government had no reason not to adopt the SRS proposal to settle its obligations. Mr Cvetkovic, my question to you is – why does the state not want to settle its commitments to the economy, according to the real sector, producers, domestic goods and services producers of about 10 billion dinars, how much does the budget of the Republic of Serbia owe? In total debt of 110 billion dinars, the state republican budget is participating with 10 billion. Our question is - why don't you accept the SRS's proposal to make peace with these people and thus ease the pressure of indifference in the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61961	The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3 contains guarantees from the Republic of Serbia that this government plans for a future period of time to propose to the National Assembly. We're against it being done in the budget law itself. In light of the amendment itself, and it says that we are not familiar with the conditions under which these companies plan to be in charge, so we give them guarantees in advance. It is true that some of the subsequent guarantee laws will be more specific to these conditions, but in a certain way, the Assembly binds its own hands if it in advance, as our people would say, in an unprecedented manner. As far as banks are concerned, and this is also about Article 2, because only borrowing the state through the banking sector is far more fair than by broadcasting state records of value because for each debt must be written law and that law to be voted here in the National Assembly, and securities of value, the government or the one broadcasting them - the NBS, the Ministry of Finance and in a certain way avoids the debate here in the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. It is not disputed, as far as the Assembly is concerned, the ruling majority is prepared that, when it comes to borrowing the state and giving a guarantee or giving consent to certain borrowings, we work every day all day if these loans are so necessary, but that we are in charge of the unseen because we have put the state in charge of stand-by loans, we will charge it more than it is necessary to provide some funds, at the same time we are entering into a project with the IMF that has the same role. So we're going to have two billion-euro reserve funds that we're going to pay interest on, and we're probably never going to use them, or maybe we're going to be in an election campaign. It is not a problem that domestic banks are concerned because at the end of last year we agreed to one law for 400m euros where the debt was with foreign banks. I don't see why we can't continue this practice. If the current responsibilities or guarantees given by the Republic of Serbia to certain public enterprises are looked at, these interest rates are quite acceptable in the good part of the cases. Let's say, 1.75% on an annual level, plus a six-month euribor. That's about 3%. Or, say, 2%, or, let's say, 4.75 plus one month of eurybor. So, interest which in most cases does not exceed 6-6.5%, and the best conditions that we have achieved for the euro bond is 7.5% on an annual basis. Of course, without the consent of the Serbian Parliament, except in the area we have authorised, we have transferred our powers to the government of the Republic of Serbia when it is given the need. That is why we believe that in times of crisis like this and when the situation is unstable both in the world and in the European market, and even more unstable in Serbia, that it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on loans, whether it is loans from banks, or borrowings that are achieved by broadcasting state charters of value, regardless of what may be a little slower, but when you were able to charge the state with reserve funds, without the knowledge of the assembly, then you can assign it to the Assembly to know both the public and the citizens of Serbia, which, in the end of the day, and pay it back.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61963	With this, you've wasted your time as an authorised representative and two and a half minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61964	We have submitted an amendment to Article 3 in that section concerning the granting of a guarantee to the Serbian Civil Directorate of Serbia, worth 35m euros for the construction of a residential and business facility on the site of Kasarna "Stepa Stepanovic". We believe that this project is a completely missed story and that it is absolutely unnecessary to continue borrowing and giving the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to build these apartments, since it has proved that these apartments absolutely do not fall, nor will they belong to the category of social housing and that their value of 1,250 euros is far above the market value of apartments in that location and that this is probably about a large scam that will serve individual tycoons to garner huge money. The state will provide guarantees under this system, the Republic Building Directorate will take over the loans, pay interest for it, the apartments will be built, and the apartments are too expensive and will not belong to the social housing category, because the state will have damage to it, which will pay interest on the one hand, and on the other hand, that these apartments will not stand for sale, given that there is no great interest in them, so we think it is unnecessary for the state to enter the story and on the other hand the real costs. We are afraid that without this guarantee and new borrowing aside from direct damage, they will go to those indirect ones that concern corruption and inflating the prices of squares that are not justified and cannot meet market conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61965	National MP Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61966	As my colleague said, we don't think it's necessary to invest in the project, because there's a failure and there's no need for the state to interfere, not in that kind of project. Also, we believe that it is not good that we see the water in Article 3 that the state provides guarantees for the new borrowing of the public company "Srbigas" in the amount of 210m euros, which is the guarantee that the state gives to the Public Enterprise, i.e. that is the money of all Serbian citizens. All Serbian citizens guarantee "Serbia" to increase its debt. Namely, "Srbigas" since this government has been in place year by year increases its debt, so it threatens bankruptcy, and it is not true that the only reason why "Srbigas" is currently in trouble, the difference between gas import prices and gas prices, is because of the company's non-domestic business. In the previous year, the company involved in the distribution of natural gas also took over business in the companies "Staklara" in Paracino, "Azotara", and they are now experts in the production of glass packaging. Such companies have bought five or six companies, including the IT company involved in the production of computers, so that "Srbigas" is understood in the production of computers. That's one thing and it's an absolutely unusual business move, but when I said unreal and non-domestic business, then I think of the information that reached Serbian citizens at the end of 2010, which is that "Srbigas" singled out some rough account of about 500,000 euros for the purchase of 60 official cars. Among other things, there were luxury cars, such as the Audi 8. We are aware that the Public Enterprise of Srbigas sometimes has to rebuild the fleet, but that suddenly you buy 60 cars, and you are always complaining that the price of gas must be increased, because you are in front of bankruptcy, then it's really a non-domestic business. It would be the same as if one family that barely puts an end to the end, and most of them are in Serbia today, decided to buy a luxury car. So it's absolutely non-domestic and they don't need guarantees for loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61967	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61968	Mr. Novakovic, we have not filed a formal amendment to Article 3, but this really deserves attention. Because of Mr. Cvetkovic, I must say that Article 3 has three parts. The first part, guarantees to be issued by the Republic of Serbia. The second part -- the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia and the third part, that is the state of debt of the Republic of Serbia, direct and indirect obligations, both under a) and under b), is also being discussed about the direct and indirect obligations of the Republic of Serbia. Now I would draw attention to you, if Article 3 talks about public debt and liabilities or borrowing, during 2011, there are some illogicalities in relation to the budget and the rebalancing. I'd start off in a row, and first I'd start with something written in the budget and what isn't or is in rebalancing. Under a) is said to be -- in 2011, the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia will be issued to a large number of dinars, but it should be converted into some foreign currencies, which is $920 million, two billion and one hundred ten million euros and two billion dollars. When we look at it and compare it to the rebalancing, then we see, under (a) the first column of the World Bank, the public roads of Serbia and about $100 million, and then I turn the page, and I see under the Roman three, the European Investment Bank, the Public Enterprise of Transnaft, the construction of the product pipeline system through the Republic of Serbia, 86.5m euros, and it turned out to be KFVW, NIP, local self-government, water supply, project 3. Then what did it turn out to be? Under Roman five, foreign governments, the Government of the Republic of Germany, the Public Undertaking of the Railways of Serbia, the modernisation and specification of the Pančevo-Vrsac railway, the state guarantee, means the Government of the Republic of Germany, 45m euros. Of course, it fell off, because foxdoers can't count on the return of property in Vojvodina. In this context, it says – the Government of the Republic of Poland, again for the railways, five points one Arabic, infrastructure, vehicles and equipment, 70m euros, you rejected it. You also rejected under Roman six -- guarantees to business banks under 11, JAT Erviz, "AD Belgrade Air BAS", as it is called, 140m euros. Then you threw out the reportedly "Fiat", which remained under Roman seven -- a joint investment by the Republic of Serbia and a 135m-euro "Fiat Group". What else did you throw out? Under "B" – in 2011, the Republic of Serbia will approve project and programme loans up to – a large number of dinars, which, when translated into euro, is two billion and 455 million, there are still 800 million dinars and a billion and 637 million dollars. That's a hell of a lot of numbers. It is the direct responsibility of the Republic of Serbia. Under two Roman, Mr Cvetkovic, the European Investment Bank, Corridor 10 X, you say number 10, there is a bit of a problem, about 300m euros. But it was under point 7 of Annex 4 out of 250 million, and nobody knows what it is. Under three Roman -- the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, under a regular number of four, solving scientists' housing problems in the Republic of Serbia, 35m euros. Imagine, Bozidar Djelic forced us to pass a law where we were in charge or made some framework agreement for resources for science and technology and to address the housing needs of scientists. So 35m euros fell off, not that Europe is dealing with the needs of scientists, they have to go to Europe, that black man there. Under five Roman - foreign governments, the government of the Republic of Turkey, construction of the Belgrade-Boljari highway, $590m. And you threw that out. Now you've put me in an awkward situation when I'm talking to the citizens when we're better – do the Germans come or when the Turks come? You got the Germans and the Turks out, too. What is that? It goes on to say "business banks, institutions, institutional investors". You see, bonds numbering 2 – 700 000, 700m euros, then when the budget was made, it was problematic what it was, but in the rebalancing we have the answer to that, Mr Cvetkovic. Then it is said: "A credit for programme support to the budget in different currencies with the World Bank guarantee – $400 million". What is it, Mr. Cvetkovic? I don't want to go to "v." Why not? Because at V, Mr. Cvetkovic, as far as you're concerned, they're so guilty and these are all pro-European. I'm defending you. Velimir Ilic attacked you that they were unrealistic loans and unrealistic interest rates. They're the same interest rates as when he was in power and they were in debt. And these pro-Europeans who go to this Stefan Phil to have breakfast in mushrooms, they're the same, they're just maybe a little bit worse than you. Let's go to budget rebalance now. Mr. Novakovic, look at this, what's going on in the budget rebalancing -- the debt increases. It is said: "The guarantees of the Republic of Serbia that will be issued in 2011 far exceed what is planned by the budget." The main problem with this budget and budget rebalancing is uncontrollable and unwarranted borrowing. Let's take it in a row. Within the framework of "a", where guarantees are, he says, "Electro-price Serbia, EPS, The Kolubara Project – 80 million. Call Kenneth, he's got it all. Report to those you've arrested. B 92 reported - 135m euros were stolen, Mr Cvetkovic. You have the law that all those who are suspects, accused, are not yet convicted. You can confiscate property, like you did with Darko Saric, not to mention Miskovic, Bek, those 17 who owe billions and billions based on taxes and contributions. Not only can you take what they owe, but you can free them, Mr. Cvetkovic, if you like, and act accordingly. Let's move on. The European Investment Bank – brand-new rebalancing obligations. Under Roman three, under Arabic five, "Fiat", Serbia's DOO cars "Fiat compact cars Serbia" through "c", 150m euros. So under six -- "Fiat cars Serbia DOO Fiat kopact cars Serbia" through "d" – 50 million. So the city of Belgrade, building a bridge across the Sava with access roads to the bridge through "a" - 70m euros. Furthermore, the city of Belgrade, building a bridge across the Sava with access roads to the bridge through "b" - 90 million. You play with numbers. What responsibility do you now create for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? We are going under four Roman -- a German development bank, two -- Serbia's electricity, a "bto system for field "b" through "c", a delayer for the Tamnava Western field, a homogenisation of Kolubara coal -- 65m euros. Why don't you call Kenneth? If you can't, Ken, there's Dragan Gilas who made the Colubara affair. Under five Roman - foreign governments, one, the Government of Spain, the Government of Japan, and three, the Czech Export Bank. Since when is the Czech export bank of the Czech Republic, Mr. Cvetkovic? Why didn't you write "The Government of the Czech Republic"? No, but -- the Czech Export Bank, for the reconstruction and modernisation of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway 120m euros. It's a machine. Business banks under six Roman – Hypo-alpe Adria bank AD, the municipality of Kosovo Mitrovica, north, Zvecan, Zubin Potok, that is the water line. Since you did not define which bank is in the budget, you have now defined which bank is. And do you know who the Alpe-Adria Bank is? It is she who financed Slovenia's independence in 1991. And do you know who was one of the founders of that bank? The one that killed him in Austria, Geider. Within the Roman six, there is "Banka Inteza AD Belgrade", "Sosite General Serbia", etc. – maintenance of current liquidity, 210m euros. What's new? Galenika AD, refinance existing short-term commitments. Mr. Cvetkovic, here is the documentation for Galenika, with whom they concluded contracts, especially this Nenad Ognjenović, known for ruining all the companies where he was director. My people, the state takes over the crime. Why don't you call Miljko Radosavljevic at my place so I can give him this file. I have a lot of paperwork, Mr. Cvetkovic. I have files from which you can cover all complete duties. But let's move on. We still have the Commercial Bank AD Belgrade, but that is the next item of the agenda. We have a new one here -- JAT Erviz, maintenance of liquid liquidity, 10m euros. Then we have – Serbia's Building Directorate, the construction of a residential, Istvan Becar Pecaros, in New Belgrade, 25m euros. Mr. Cvetkovic, under b) within Article 3, you know that well, just reminding you, what do we have new? It's Corridor X again, 195 million. Reduced from 300 to 195 million. We have a brand-new loan annex for small and medium-sized enterprises and mid-market capitalisation companies, Roman II\A - 50 million and a loan annex for small and medium-sized enterprises and mid-market capitalisation companies II\B - 100 million euros. What do we got? It shows – Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. Under 6, this is Roman III, Arabic 6 - building. It's a machine. Then we have a program under the German Development Bank KFW. Under Roman IV, under Arabic 4 – a water supply and sewerage programme in the middle-sized municipality of Serbia III - 65.5 million. It was a 44.5 million budget. So, what's new? We have a new one in the framework of Roman VI, under Arabic 3 – "Sosite Genal Bank", a loan for programme support to the budget with the guarantee of the World Bank, Massala, 292.5 million. Imagine what you have under the 5th loan to finance a debt reprogramme according to the great Socialist People's Arab Arab Mosque. Mr. Cvetkovic, as I see it, the Americans are destroying your Gaddafi. What's there - 40 million euros. It says: getting a plane for the government's needs. Boca wants to ride a 30m-euro plane. It says – reconstruction and purchase of buildings for the needs of diplomatic consular representation in Washington, Mr. Cvetkovic, $7.5 million. Why do you need an embassy in America, Mr. Cvetkovic, what do you need it for? Is that Vladimir Popovic playing third secretary over there? The one whose wedding was last year, when it was the Pride Parade. When you were looking forward to the Serbian police beating up Serbian youth on the streets of Belgrade, Mr Cvetkovic. We have footage of you singing along with Boris Tadic and Ivica Dacic. Next, under 9. – buying a business building for the needs of the Anti-Corruption Agency 4.5m euros. You're buying in Serbia, Mr. Cvetkovic. You're not buying in the UK. If I didn't order you, Mr. Cvetkovic, to this black spot of our dreary reality, where the fifth column insists on paying off the Republic of Serbia, so she can't lift her head off interest, Mr. Cvetkovic, to pay off all these things. Under v) where the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia is, I did not want to read to you, Mr Cvetkovic, so as not to scare the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as many of them are individually in charge. It is the result of this 11-year-old rule of the five-colonese and the Five-Octobar parties. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61969	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61970	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, I believe these amendments should be rejected. In my explanation, I would say a lot, especially to those who today most loudly attack and criticise the budget, which, when they were in a position to run this country, had their hands up their shoulders in a jam jar. It wouldn't be a problem if they made the jam themselves, but that jar was a folk jar, in which it was neatly agreed for decades before, and then they ran faster and better to correct it. I have heard here in an explanation that some are bothered by this government and that this parliament has passed a law on confiscation of property acquired by crime. I know there's always a mob spokesman who'll defend and attack those legal provisions. There are always those who will side with crime. Don't worry about Kenneth. As we all took, so the state of Serbia will hang up the "yellow tape" and say -- this is taken from Serbian citizens and returned to them. The state of Serbia will know the money it has seized to deploy to the budget and will rationally deploy it, to put it in favour of Serbian citizens. Once the money was stolen from this country, and at a time when those who are the loudest moaning of the budget today, money was stolen from the country's budget, and on a plane to the Cayman Islands, and islands like this, and islands like that, and the Cypriot Islands. But today, when they say that 80m euros stand out for Kolubara, it is true, so much stands out for Kolubara. What was stolen in Kolubara will be returned to Serbian citizens. We've passed that law and we're very proud of that law. He can attack whoever he wants, however he wants. You can defend Kenneth and those before Kenneth. A little bit, so you come out and burn down the trees and stones on Miljko Radisavljevic. When we talk about bridges in Belgrade, of course we'll build bridges. Those bridges stay behind us. Here's Brankov Bridge, here's Gazela. We do not say – we do. We didn't give money for it, the money was given by the state of Serbia, and we just used it properly, used it and did something for our lives. When we leave power one day, and it obviously won't be soon, if the opposition is as previous as it is, and then we'll leave these bridges to use both the citizens of Belgrade, Serbia and those who are passing through this city. No one's gonna put that on their backs and take it away. I hear there are some who answer now and say, "Why doesn't Miljko Radisavljevic call me, that I may tell him?" You know, when Djura "Mutavi", that Mr. Suvadzic, introduced a protected witness institution, until that happened, was a problem. Afterwards, protected witnesses report themselves. You know, Đura "Mutavi" was the first to break through the ice and say, "I'll talk." There was a problem until he spoke. When he spoke, every day he picked up some Djura Mutavi. Finally, the question was, what do we need the embassy in America? Only since 1882, Serbia has had diplomatic relations with the United States. I am very proud that Serbia has diplomatic relations with Russia, China, and with the United States, to invest in our diplomatic and consular representations, to separate money, and in particular, to have diplomatic and consular representations in the world's most powerful states and to promote our country through our diplomatic and consular representations. And not to lead politics by defining the new block of the world's super powers and then saying, "Now we're going to re-evaluate the fallen planet and now we're going to, with this new block of world superpowers, who are barely able to eat, to confront all the other people in the world." Don't run one irrational policy. You can criticise the budget for everything. You can point out from the opposition's position that this one is bad, because in the house of the rainstorm, that your crep is not well furnished and that this is bad and that Serbia's budget is not good. But give someone a rational, reasonable explanation that is acceptable. This, from the position of demagogue criticism, where you criticise that Serbia will build bridges in Belgrade, which will provide guarantees for the rebuilding of the Kolubara, for rebuilding the Tamnava, for rebuilding the embassy, you know, that's not a meaningful criticism. Give me a particular thing you don't like, so when you say it specifically that you don't like, then make a suggestion about what it should look like. If it's supposed to look what it looked like when you were in power, away from you a beautiful house, then you're sitting there in opposition. For the end, there's something I don't understand. Here some people, only when they are in opposition, start to love Serbia. Only when they are in opposition do they show all their patriotic enthusiasm and say that we are in power. Tell me, when you were in power, who prevented you from showing off that luxuriant talent? Come on, please, show me the name and name of that man and let us tell him: shame on you, you did not let people like this stand apart, to show what they can, what they can, what they know. Thank Lord God, and for those three years they showed, it was too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61971	I ask the MPs to stick to the agenda topics. Ms. Jovanovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61972	Col. Novakovic, you have just had a late reaction, because only after Mr. Milivojević has completed his unambiguous presentation, which has nothing to do with the budget rebalance, nor with the amendment of MP Zeljko Tomic, have you said that you are asking MPs to stick to the agenda topics. You should have asked him in 30 seconds, when he started talking about mobsters produced by Zoran Djindjic's regime and who continued to do dirty jobs for DOS after 2000. You heard that fantastic statement that someone with the nickname "The Mutavi" is deciding to talk. But when the state authorities in Serbia do their job and when the judiciary really does go through justice and justice, all those who are connected to these incriminating persons, mentioned by Mr Milivojevic, and who and how they have ties to the DS, will be behind prison bars on long-term imprisonment. So you won't be able to, Mr. Milivojevic, play around and mock the fate of the troubled people, who after 11 years of your authority neither has the bread to eat nor can pay the bills, nor to school their children, nor to return to the factories that you, through your mob ministers, have left without a job, but you'll have to retire nicely and do what you're trained to do. The question is, will you be able to do it at all, given that you have strayed into some other form and that you still need to be dealt with by experts from another area? You injured Mr. Novakovic, Rules of Procedure, member of 106 because you did not warn your colleague Milivojevic not to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61973	Thank you. Time's up. I warned you, but now I'm warning you, you're addressing a different messenger directly, so if I don't warn you, then I hurt the Rules of Procedure again. The right to replica has Mr. Zoran Krasic. Here you go. Please, don't throw it away, everything's fine, and we're moving on in a slightly sharper discussion. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61974	Mr. Novakovic, you know that it is an extraordinary honor and pleasure for me because the public of the Republic of Serbia will hear when the main ideologist DS is the main argument of the DS. I hope you, Mr. Novakovic, are not offended by that. However, I just wanted to draw your attention to one thing. We're used to saying things here, Mr. Novakovic. Of course, it's a great pleasure for me when my MPs don't applaud, when they always do, and before they've cursed my father and mother, etc. But it doesn't matter that much, it's a risk of a profession. To be clear, that's quite clear. However, I expected, Mr. Novakovic, that you would react. Not to defend Zoran Krasic, not to defend the edge of Dacic and the SPS. No, that's what we're used to. Whenever there's a drive, they attack the SRS for everything that's been going on for the past 1,765 years. But, Mr. Novakovic, did you notice one tiny shade? He said yellow tape radicals would wear on their hands. You know, the yellow ribbon on your hands is some association that's very bad. Serbia doesn't need that. Especially yellow – hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C and hepatitis D. It is jaundice due to DS rule. But the association with the yellow tape on your hand, Mr. Novakovic, that's what you need to judge, not me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61975	Thank you. I think the symbol of the yellow tape was used in a completely different sense, and these are the tapes that provide certain places, so they say – it is property that will return. That's how I understood it, but it's possible I got it all wrong. Please don't throw it away. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Milivojevic Srdjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61976	I'm saying he's a injured member of 107. The Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, as the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I made it clear and loud that the yellow tape was crucified on houses and written on the houses of thieves – taken away in favour of the Serbian state from which it was stolen. I wasn't talking about hands, I wasn't talking about sleeves. Each such association is very malicious, very inappropriate and comes from those who did not paint Serbia yellow but black, but let it go to their souls. I'm counting, there are people who are already in years, they've been here in parliament for a long time, there's often doors open, there's trouble with ears, so I'm sorry that some people didn't want to listen more carefully when I speak to them and when I speak to them, but not because of you, but because of the public. Take notes, you might learn something, and it might stop happening to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61977	That's how I figured it out. Please listen to me and then there wouldn't be a misunderstanding. According to Mrs. Verica Radeta's Rules of Procedure, she's advertising a violation of the Rules of Procedure on my part.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61978	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, and in relation to Article 107. We have just heard a great insult to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and you have not responded, and you should have. We heard from Mr. Milivojevic that Djura "Mutovi" has introduced into the Serbian judiciary of a protected witness institute. We know that this institute was passed as part of a single law in this House. True, we of the SRS were absolutely against it, especially because of the fact that we knew that the law was involved, among other things, with Đura "Mutavi". Here, we have now heard from Mr Milivojevic, who voted in favour of this law, and you have not responded, it has not occurred to you to protect the National Assembly Institute and to draw attention to fellow citizens' laws in this country and to be brought by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I hope now we don't get an answer like we just did, that someone didn't get it right. This is absolutely from word to word translated into stenogram and can certainly be checked. Since you have repeatedly been distracted by the breach of the Rules of Procedure, even by MPs, or colleagues from the ruling majority, we really expect that a real democratic principle will happen once, that you will accept the fact that you have violated the Rules of Procedure. Once we see what it looks like when the chairman gives himself a warning measure. It's easy when you do it to fellow MPs, but if you've also introduced an institute... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61979	Thank you. And despite your opposition to the president's warning, if it's not about the discussion on the agenda, I'll say the following. So, there's no injury to which you called. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure and I warn you not to do it anymore, because you've reported in a dozen minutes since it's spoken, not immediately after a possible injury could be done. However, within the limits of good practice and my gentlemen's supervision, I will ask you not to do so in the future, and I have received knowledge, we are all learning together, democracy is a long and complex process. Now I will give my word to Mr. Krasic, if you agree, as a replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61980	Mr. Novakovic, you know very well that I rarely use the right to harm the Rules of Procedure and the replica. Why? Because the DS people are forbidden, by Boris Tadic, to object to anything when I speak. Let me let you know some things you may not even know. It's very embarrassing for society when someone drives a car and doesn't have a driver's license, and it's particularly embarrassing for me when someone's trying to climb without a mountaineering license. I'm avoiding you who are climbing me, and they don't have a mountaineer's license. Mr. Novakovic, there is a system here that moves across the street from Miki Rakic. You remember what I said about this man, the alpha and the omega, he is the president of Serbia, not Boris Tadic. Everyone was attacking me here. However, thanks to Wikiliks, we have received dispatches and have seen who Miki Rakic, alpha and omega is. He created a traitorous SNS party, as he boasted to the US ambassador, worked on Boris Tadic's orders for six months, shopping, molding, messing around. Mr. Novakovic, I told you that in 2008 he was brought to The Hague by that character, to meet him, as he is the great chief of staff. Mr. Novakovic, when someone tries to give me a replica or deny my words, well imagined, because if you don't believe me, trust your American friends...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61981	Replication time's up. I didn't quite get it, but this is where we ended up with that circle of replica, whatever it is. On Article 3rd of the amendment, in the same text, MP Radojko Obradović was submitted to Natasa Micic, Judita Popovic, Marija Bulgarčić, Nebojsa Rangelović and Bojan Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Vice President Judita Popovic, so Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61982	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of our amendment was, in fact, not only to gain public insight into the state of public debt, but to make it clear to the government in parliament why this public debt is as it is, therefore, being monitored every month in which this public debt is increasing. This is extremely necessary because we are witnessing that the public debt has already crossed some of the limits that are susceptible to the state of the economy and for this budget, given that budget revenues have failed significantly, and that expenditure has been increased. In doing so, we approach even the percentage that the law provides for as a limit of public debt. So, taking into account this fact that public debt, however slowly, but still growing from year to year, it is really appropriate for the public, or all of us, to have insight into how money is spent from the budget, so that we do not come into a situation to one day declare bankruptcy because we did not know in which direction the increase in public debt is going. We are witnessing these days, these weeks and months, that every moment there is a little storm in the glass and that happens, in fact, between coalition partners, certain misunderstandings about whether or not to support some law, specifically this rebalancing law, and until recently we had a problem with the Law on Public Property and Restitution. Interestingly, for a time, a fight is being fought between the ruling coalition partners on whether a concrete law will pass or not. Normally it always ends, in the end, by everyone declaring victory. Regardless of the struggle being fought under a certain cover or cloak, concerns about the interest of national minorities, human rights or the interest of the people of Vojvodina eventually come to a situation to calm it all down, without having brought some results in terms of improving human rights, minority rights. This remains an open question to the extent that we, as a state and society, promote these human and minority rights, and normally, the people of Vojvodina do not see any great benefit from it if someone who stood up for the people of Vojvodina declares victory. If there were indeed a result of this coalition collapse, in this case, I would not return to the same topic of whether minority communities are satisfied with certain laws, legal solutions, or whether Vojvodina has received all that the Constitution guarantees, or all that the coalition partners previously agreed on. So it's simply unnatural for coalition partners who are in power to conflict, and that these laws are being done by the government, we assume, in some fruit and coalition, and with the joint work of all coalition partners. It's a normal assumption of a functioning and good government. However, it is normal to question all this when comparing the results between that column of users who at the end of this draft budget rebalancing law are denied with certain revenues and those who actually receive more revenue. So when we compare these two columns, then we can figure out how this government and this coalition works, and nothing can surprise us anymore. We can see that this is about forsing and giving a chance to spend more on the heart of economic development and economic development. We should therefore look at why it was necessary to increase the resources of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Environment, mining and spatial planning, the Antidoping Agency, the Ministry of KIM, the administrative districts. These are, therefore, examples of those users of the budget whose revenues have been increased, with reduced incomes, i.e. from the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, the DRI, the Fiscal Council, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities, the Republic Geodetic Institute, capital investments have been reduced by eight billion dinars, subsidies to agriculture have been reduced. So what it's really telling us and what analysis we can give for the functional significance of this government. I think the government is getting a very bad assessment of how it plans budget spending, how it realises this budget spending, how it force individual budget users. Therefore, when we are discussing budget rebalancing, it is clear to us that this government expects this rebalancing to pass, that this rebalance only opens up the status quo that the government has been pushing back three and a half years, that this government does not really intend to step out of the position it has been in for more than three years. All that points to the fact that today we are discussing whether to increase pension beneficiaries and thereby make one budget hole of seven billion dinars, while denying capital investment of eight billion dinars, in itself, the issue is problematic. When we look at who is actually going to suffer the greatest damage to these capital investment cuts, then we can see that the most affected local self-governments, and local self-governments will not have investments for certain municipal projects, for infrastructure, for road repair, for sewerage, for plumbing and the like, and that some capital investments, which are both popular and which are quite bombistic for millions of times, will in fact only increase consumption in these items and for those users, and all for marketing and promotion of certain political parties that make up this government. Therefore, we cannot support this budget rebalance even though we believe this rebalancing will most likely pass, given the character of this coalition in power. We believe that all the funds mentioned here, which represent a certain change for earlier budget planning, have already been changed and spent, so there's not much to talk about here. The bottom line is that the government has in fact remained consistent with the fact that no changes are carried out if they are to be carried out, these changes are only being carried out because nothing fundamentally changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61983	Seven minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? National MP Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61984	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Articles 1, 2 and 3. The Budget Law defines Article 1 defines the structure of the budget. Article 2 defines the level of deficits and the way the deficit is financed and Article 3 refers to external debt, internal obligations and direct and indirect relations. I have proposed an amendment that just when considering how high the external debt has increased rapidly over the last three years. In view of the fact that the Public Debt Act which was in the procedure one year and a half or two days ago, which allowed local self-governments to be completely different in debt and finance, means no consent for each borrowing by the Assembly. The law following the Budget Law is a change in the Law on Public Debt, which allows units of territorial autonomy, meaning municipalities, cities of an autonomous province to be in debt by broadcasting securities of value. I proposed an amendment in the same text as my colleagues. The amendment says that each month the government delivers a public debt report to the National Assembly. This is completely natural for reasons for the National Assembly to have timely information. Most countries have budgets, it has rebalances, so it takes six, seven, eight months between one act and another and it is convenient, especially if public debt grows at such a rate that the Assembly gets information on the level of public debt each month. You replied that the amendment was not accepted because it was printed in the Bilten as well as in my amendment to the deficit information. It is printed in the Bilten of Public Finance and is on the Ministry of Finance website. Allow me, that's not enough information. In order not to get into a situation where some countries are in an environment and in Europe with a huge public debt, we need to talk about it. We need to have a clear picture of what a public debt is. Direct obligations, indirect liabilities are 13 billion and 800 million, and, of course, according to the methodology of the finance ministry. Does that count? What effect does this have on public debt? When you look at the National Bank's data, then these data doesn't match up to about three billion euros, 300 billion dinars compared to data recorded by the finance ministry. When you look at how much they owe certain municipalities. This is just part of a long local self-government. When all of this is considered, then the situation is quite serious and quite alarming. In the part of the public debt relating to the internal debt, it should be noted that there is an old savings, nearly three billion euros, 300 billion dinars in the foreign currency. It's an internal debt, but a defacto external debt. A change of only 10%, a change in the course of the euro, will it be in a month, six months or a year. The change of only 10% of the worse rate is the increase in public debt by 10%. It's important to spoil the image and percentages I'm talking about. Whether 43%, if that's 45%, that's the least important. It is much more important what obligations are in relation to public debt and whether Serbia can do so. That's one thing. The second thing is whether there is the ability of our economy, whether there is a Serbia, that there is no deficit in the coming years. If you look at projections where the data is worse than it was supposed to be a year ago and projections i.e. Assumptions for 2011, projections for 2012, it is clear that we will also have a deficit in the coming years. When we take into account the law on restitution and the 200 billion dinars committed to restitution, it is clear that the public debt is growing and that these commitments will be growing from year to year. I've talked about it several times in the congregation. Obligations that the republic and the republic's budget have towards the PIO fund, according to pensioners who each year have one to one percent higher. Of course, it's neither internal nor external debt, but it's a year-on-year commitment and it's some kind of commitment that needs to be financed from the budget. When we talk about external debt, these are elements we need to consider that we need to talk about. And only when we figure out what the commitments are on the annual level and make a projection for next year will we see that these commitments grow from year to year, without a clear picture of how they will finance themselves in the situation when privatisation is stopped and when we have nothing to sell. That was the meaning and the amendment, that's the meaning of this article. Unfortunately, you have not accepted the amendment, but you have not convinced us that public debt will not grow in the coming years. As long as we hold out, we'll see about that. So when you come back, you will answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61985	National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Excuse me, Mr. Momo Colakovic's first word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61986	I wanted to, Vice President, replicate Mrs. Juditi Popovic if possible. Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, I think she was quite the careless vice president of the assembly when she spoke in that sense that pensioners are making a big hole in the budget. I think it's a lot of recklessness, and I'm reacting that these statements are not entitled and as soon as he says those words, he leaves the session and we can't explain ourselves. It is, in this respect, that the budget rebalance provides for additional funding for the PIO fund, for the regular maintenance of pensions, and in this respect we have given full support to this proposal, we have received support from other parties within the ruling coalition and I personally think that no one in this House has the right to insult pensioners in this way and that they are the only problem in this country and that this country will fail because there will be an increase in pensions as much as possible. That's why I'm responding to Mrs. Vice President's statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61987	Madam Elvira Kovac's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61988	Thank you. I would use the Honorable President, if you would allow the right to reply, since the Vice-President of Mrs. Judita Popovic's Assembly in her presentation talked about the crisis in the ruling coalition, about blackmailers, she did not directly call some but she called us by saying that the interests of Vojvodina and national minorities were not represented. For the past few weeks, the SVM has, months since the Assembly's work in the past 15, 16 years, proved to be a principled party, we were in the debate in principle last week, talking about having an amendment to the budget rebalancing, which refers to the already foreseen money for the AP Vojvodina, more specifically for capital investments, and that it is the essence of our amendment that this promised money is transferred to three wars, on November 1st and 15th and on December 1st, to Vojvodina. We said we'd vote for this rebalancing if our amendment was accepted. The Finance Committee was held today and has adopted this amendment and the Prime Minister has adopted this amendment, and that is what we will vote on. We are no blackmailers, the least we want is to endanger the stability of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61989	You also explained to Mr. Krasic some dilemmas. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61990	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I never had any dilemmas about Mrs. Elvira Kovac's party. They claim the market and always vote for budget rebalance and budget, Mrs. Kovac knows, all finance ministers know. They're making so little claims now, but they're done. Although I don't really know if he's on that list, but okay, his amendment's gonna come up and we'll talk about it. Anyway, I would like Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic to return to this amendment by Radojko Obradovic. Officially, the conditions for the Radojkov amendment to be accepted are not met. Basically this amendment has to be accepted, why? He's gone, Mr. Cvetkovic. Watch out. When budget rebalances are made, the budget changes the provisions of the general section and the specific part, but as a rule Article 3 where the public debt situation is not changing. We've changed into rebalancing and that member. Why? Because we are in charge of 500m euros from January 1st to today. And when I criticized them and said – don't do that, the public debt situation in that part of c) should appear as a new initial state for 2012. And now that you're not following it, you don't know, this country owes 27 billion euros. On all grounds, making banks, making abroad, making an internal, making external debt. This amount did not take into account internal debts, between business entities and in particular those debts where the State initially and at the end of the vicious debt cycle. Why am I saying this? It doesn't help multilateral compensation, it can't flatten, it can't clear the balances, the situation is much harder than some think. If you don't believe me, ask Mr. Cvetkovic, ask Mr. Shoskovic. They'll probably, once the cameras are turned off to explain to you what the condition is. To all of that, we need to add what Radojko just started, here we have no data on the debts of local self-government. For the sake of the public, we have some local self-governments forced by this government not to be controlled commercially. And we have a situation where some local self-government, not counting salaries for local self-government workers, four next budgets can't settle what they owe right now. The situation is far more difficult. You advertised yourself in 2009, firing workers from local self-government, so you said vote for us in power, we're going to draw money out of your budget, so there's 40, 55 billion dinars left, I don't know exactly what the amount, 66 billion, that the Republic, based on all transfers, is due to local self-government. And now we have an epochal solution, eight billion are taken, given to local self-governments and immediately caught by the Republic by the head and said – will they use it for capital investments? What a hypocrite. What hypocrisy, and full of mouth, is none of these G17 plus about decentralisation, especially that financial one that will solve all the problems of local self-government. And they'll even make children in remote villages to increase the number of citizens. And that right after they went into the replica system to distract you. So, as for Mrs Elvira Kovac's party, don't worry they'll vote for it, as well as Nenad Canak who votes, give him 5,000 euros he makes a quorum and finishes the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61991	You know, what? You can't do that, please. I won't let you say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61992	Just because WikiLeaks didn't publish.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61993	I don't know what your literature is for preparation for the session, but behavior really doesn't match the dignity we need to cultivate. Don't put me in a position to impose sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61994	You do not need Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic to impose sanctions. You know I know these things very well, how they work. I know you a lot better than you think, not specifically, but this pro-European coalition, so my God, we're going in a row. Why did I report for this amendment, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, would like to draw attention not to make a mistake, on the basis of this amendment by Mr Radojko Obradovic, we could follow a monthly reduction or an increase in public debt and immediately, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to give you a few concrete proposals, so that the public debt can be reduced. I don't know if you from Veljko Odalovic received this ruling from the Mitrovica Municipal Court, signed by a lady named Zehra Verbovci, 13 drivers were fined for a criminal offence, an unauthorized crossing of the state border of the Republic of Kosovo. Just to remind you, UNMIK, KFOR, Eulex, are supervising the authorities of an independent false state of Kosovo. They didn't raise their voice because it's not the state border, I'm putting it down right now, so you don't kill my warning. Next, it has to do with public debt, just so you don't get me wrong, an example from the King, in 2006, a woman died a husband, some debt to the Bank of Intes, they settled down, and now EOS Matrix shows up by the European standards that you put into our regulations, the Agency for the collection of claims, do we need to hire private agencies, and there are as many of them as you want here and from domestic capital and foreign capital, Montgomery has three agencies, do they have to charge the debts? How would they charge debts from the Republic of Serbia, which did not pay for construction works on the Supreme Cassation Court building? This concerns public debt, the Republic of Serbia, it concerns all taxpayers, who should also through taxes, pay taxes. Another thing, what part of this budget deficit has been going on for the last 10 years since the Sun warmed us up with DOS? Does the deficit apply to pensions, to the purchase of goods and services, to employees' salaries? Do you know that in the state administration we have so many employees who meet the standards of the size of this country according to European standards, and all of Western Europe is hooking up in the Brussels administration and France and Germany, etc? The administration's over-inflated. Of course, Mr. Colakovic, there is no question of the state's obligation as a guarantee of pensions. So you didn't imagine that Serbian radicals would question what was legally prescribed both towards pensioners and socially unsettled persons? You don't doubt that, do you? The question is, where are the resources, where are the opportunities of this people, where are the opportunities of this economic area? Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, I would recommend you, and you have, I know, transcripts, the video link of Stanko Subotic's testimony - Caneta, here's the possibility of reducing public debt. The first thing, what he says here -- Dragan Sutanovac, the military minister vice president, who otherwise didn't break out of my company and used him as his own, is what Stanko Subotic says about this. He also told me Tadic said he didn't want me in Serbia as a press distributor. That's what Cane says, that's yours. Here is Miki Rakic- ordering prosecutor and minister Malovic to find a way to extend the indictment and send prosecutor Radosavljevic... (President: Please stick to the agenda, it has nothing to do with the debt reduction. How is it gone? Well, if it is charged by these criminals as much as the debt is reduced, the amount of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget increases. How do you not understand, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic? Well, it's a system of merged courts. You know, the budget is a system of merged courts, on one side is income, on the other side is expenditure. When the same pressure is on the part where the incomes are, it's the same pressure on what the expenses are. It happens abnormally with us, with one bar of income we raise to two bar expenses. Mrs. Gordana Comić, support me, you're a physicist. Why is this amendment important? That every month, the Republic of Serbia knows the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia because the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is not only a matter of government, it is not only a question of the opposition and government, it is not just a question of the National Assembly and state bodies, but of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia because it repays it. At the next item of the agenda, we have a situation where the Republic of Serbia assumes to pay obligations where it has provided guarantees to weak public enterprises that cannot make not profit but a positive business to settle debts to abroad. You're saying it's not a relationship? It's all a system of connected courts. Remember, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the water is stupid, it never goes uphill, only when it comes to concrete.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61995	The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61996	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 4, I asked for a reduction in the expenditure foreign budget. The government refused the amendment with an explanation that in a special part I did not specify where these reductions could be. Let's look at our budget structure a little bit and see what our country is spending money on, or what we're in charge of. For example, Project Fiat here calls it a project of national importance. Only in the division of the Finance Ministry will it spend about seven billion dinars in the name of monetary incentives of three billion 169, three billion 630 million for the founding role of the joint company "Fiat" and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the prime minister assures us that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is an employer in the non-public sector, and then in the Ministry of Economy, look again at the "Fiat" etc. This story of spending money on some projects of national importance has been going on for four or more years. For Fiat alone, close to two billion euros has been spent. If someone didn't think I had anything against the automotive industry, I don't have anything, but I think we should stop acting and be who we aren't. Since the Prime Minister is not there, tell him that we know that he likes to deal with statistics, so let's say 1990, how many employees were in the fields, so let him see how hard it was in the automotive industry, how hard it was in the agricultural industry, and how many persons were individually engaged in agricultural production, so when he does that relationship, finally, without Mladjan Dinkic, who is no longer in the government, let him set priorities for the development of the Republic of Serbia because for these two billion euros spent, he asked the question that we invested that money in what our traditional production, what we have knowledge, we have resources, we have even the market, how much less pressure would be on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, what would be less pressure on health and pension funds. In order to be as picturesque as we can, will we finally, and we don't know what year it's going to start working, will it use at least half of what the flag is in production for its co-operatives? He won't. Will half the employees in the automotive industry reach them in the 1990s? He won't. Will dividends return to the name of all that the Republic of Serbia has invested in in five years from now? He won't. Will the funds that will be received from export stay to reduce the pressure on the dinar? They won't, because you've passed the Foreign Exchange Act that allows it to export and import the money as it arrives. Is there even one employee who will be working in the car industry "Fiat", who employs at least 10 workers behind him in some accompanying work? He's not hiring. That FIAT employee pays 50,000 euros, and only one farmer in the agricultural industry how much does he hire in the chain? To dozens, not to say hundreds. Because you've made the wrong priorities and for several years you've been spending billions of euros on missed projects, such as the production of refrigerators, car production, etc., we have now for a pretty funny thing - the biggest agricultural processor, producer, agricultural industrialist Peconi, and you have to agree that it's a little funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61997	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61998	Madam Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, I had to speak on this point, because we started through amendments to amend a law that was not right, and therefore the opposition made an extremely difficult effort to make something that the government had been wrong for years as much as it had fixed, but it was simply impossible. You don't see these amendments and you don't want to take them seriously. We want the funds to be shifted to where they should be, where they should be, to encourage exports, to improve production, that simply Serbia starts to fill the real income budget, and you keep dragging it to the other side, and you want the budget to be rebalanced, here and now, so that the budget is rebalanced, to make some mutual deals, party, party, so that the government can survive another month. Here, you can see what amendments you accept, amendments that will extend the government's life span to several months and invest a great deal of resources. That's why we wanted these amendments to make it impossible and simply focus what little money we have where we need and where the big effects are going to be. But you're not, you're going back to the old story -- the government's survival at all costs. And in order for the government to survive at any cost for another month, you are making deals that are given to you by individual parties of the group, groups, non-existent parties, where there are two, three MPs, and that means that to you. You'll spend half your budget for one MP. You will rebalance the budget as it suits you, not what the citizens of Serbia are interested in. You have to meet someone there, sir, all his demands, so the government doesn't fall. You must accept the amendment that is for Serbia's tomb. You have to accept the second amendment, something in part, under the grain, to make a deal to survive the government, and you reject amendments that are a solution for Serbia. You've heard here through the amendments that MPs are asking questions -- what about national projects, where we want them to live, but someone to produce results through these projects, not you making interests. If one politician wants to get an electoral body in Kragujevac, to be courted, you're willing to project Fiata is a national project. What does this project give Serbia and Serbia invests in it? You have now had to through the amendments you have accepted from some political parties, to survive another month, to deny Shumadi, Pomoravalje, western Serbia, southern Serbia, to give to someone in Vojvodina. So you have to deny someone to give to someone else, and that's not necessary to whom you give, but that's why you're going to destroy some where the funds should come. We have heard here that it is strategically important for Serbia, that it is strategically important energy. You are in debt before the end of the term, taking commercial loans to fulfill some of your mutual dealings and surviving, and you are not working on projects that life means for Serbia. Gentlemen, you're making the highway to join the EU where there's no traffic. You make where there's three thousand cars a day, and you don't make where there's 27 thousand cars a day. I want the Prime Minister to explain -- what's your motive for reaching out to some NATO base, making a highway, passing by and making the traffic of three thousand cars today, and in the Ibarian magistrates you won't make a highway where there's 27 grand in Lazarevci traffic every day, where every day someone dies? Is that Serbia's interest? Whose interest is that? You don't care. These martyrs of yours who don't come to the sessions, I apologize for calling them some, but it's impossible, it's the rebalancing that life means for Serbia, from the ruling coalition you have here five, six MPs. Please, so what is it? Who is this government, which is the government's majority? What are they going to pass on to their environments from which they come? How will a messenger from Uzice explain to the Uzicians that there is one failure, in Prepolje? You know that in certain places, here, take the Priboj, there's no heating, there's nothing. Here these days, people come here to the Assembly to receive them, schools don't heat up, kindergartens, no dinars. But that's why Nenad Canak, if he's looking for something, you'll buy him whatever he wants and skis and make him a ski course in Novi Sad where he's straight, but you have to survive. You'll have to do whatever it takes to survive. You have to do everything you can to survive and give where you don't have to, and not give where life means. Is there a kid sitting there today with a scarf and a winter coat and following class? You have met the conditions for Dinkic not to fall to the government and create chaos in many municipalities where the poor population is. How does the people live down there? You had to do it, rebalancing to install what he's looking for, otherwise the government falls. You're being non-domestic. You're borrowing abnormally. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we were in China, remember that a man offered a 3% loan a year, a five-year grace period for energy, for 20 years. Former Minister Petar Skundric has already finished it. What did we do? We take a loan from the European Investment Bank with an 8% interest rate, 7.5%, no grace periods, short-term credit. We're taking a loan from the Commercial Bank for 18 months, under commercial conditions. Why? Because that's what Mr. Dinkic wants. He's not in the government, but he's the prime minister, he runs the government, he's the government. Guys, Dinkic is the government. I don't know how you gentlemen in government feel. Mr. Prime Minister, is he the shadow prime minister or are you the prime minister? Take the dysgins, tighten up, take the matter into your own hands and get this Serbia out of this accident it's in. Winter's tough. She's here. Investments have been denied. How do you pay for what's done? No investments, no new jobs, no promises in the budget. Now through this rebalancing, you threw out everything that mattered. Remember, when you adopted the budget, you shut down the concession that was the biggest investment in Serbia's history and most favourable, and you said -- we're making the Belgrade-Cacchak-Požega highway, but first we make it in Vojvodina, to please. You know who didn't give the concession, Canak, Kostreš and Pajtić. And they conditioned that it had to stop. Why didn't you make a 100-metre highway? You're not. Why don't you finish the tour around Belgrade? He can't. That's why you're making 12 lanes of entry into Novi Sad. There's no need, people. Go, look at the size of the Temerin loop, as much as it is in Batajnik, as much as it is in this. What's this all about? Please change your policy. Don't make mutual deals and spend money. South Serbia can't survive, it's cramping, it's choking. The forest is exhaling. You take her coal, you don't revitalize the land, you don't do anything, and you swallow it all. Belgrade is in enormous debt. There is no control, and now the Vojvodina will owe as much as it wants, and you will give cover to both public companies and everyone. So please stop that policy. It's no shame to call the election, it's no shame to say – this isn't going like this anymore. Gentlemen, you have choices. Prime Minister, slap a hundred hand and say it - it can't go on like this. I will congratulate you first and say: "All-faith, President," and we will support you in that. And not like this, the amendment that someone, whatever they're looking for, whatever they're thinking, people are living with their budget. You've completely come out of the budget law that was adopted last year and you're totally glaring somewhere now and you're bringing to the MPs of the majority, who verify it all to you at the end of the year, and you're happy, waiting for winter. How does Serbia live? What's going on with her? You don't care. So this isn't going well. Apples are three dinars, which is now a ransom price in Serbia. People, you see, no factory works, no processor works in the whole state. How can a peasant survive? I want Mr. Dinkic here, your great friend and your idea leader to explain to me why he shut down the chip factory in Cačka, which was the best company in the Balkans and the biggest exporter? Tell him to come out here and tell him where he can sell that factory to whoever he sold it to and get us into big trouble here today. Thousands of peasants don't know where they're going with the potatoes, which he had a good birth in the dry year. What do you want him to do with it? Who's buying him out today? Do you know, thousands of wagons, plums are thrown away - so how can we live? What's our perspective? You're just talking about Fiat, Fiat, Fiat. Industrial production has reduced workers three times in the last five years. You insist on courting the Italians to make Fiat. Did Putin say at our meeting together that no vehicle would enter the Russian market. And they're not going in because they built that 300,000 car factory. Who do you make the factory for? Who are you gonna sell you to? So when Italy fails to break through the European market, you will break through. And you can't even make it work, you can't make it work, you can start to get your eyes working. Therefore, I ask you not to play with this budget, so that this rebalancing is not something that is brought into parliament to verify all machinations, malversions, dealings, contracts, etc. which is now done at the end of the year. Members of the ruling coalition, they're all somewhere, they're not interested in this at all. They'll come to vote to call this all, and you'll be happy to pass the rebalancing. Here two or three parties rub their hands - we succeeded. Here's everyone today's answer - we got it. They gave in. All right, it'll pass, and that's the way it's gonna be. What about the state? Nothing. The state will come to the lowest branches. It doesn't matter what happens after the spring elections, but the red line of borrowing has been reached. He can't go on. And now with these loans, new debts, you're burdening the future government that it won't be able to service the loans, that it won't be in debt and that we have a total collapse in the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u61999	The government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62000	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Cvetkovic, not that I'm surprised you accepted my amendment, but I'm shocked. The amendments submitted by the SRS and the MPs of the SRS wanted to reduce uncontrollable borrowing and reduce deficits. The same was true when we adopted the 2011 budget. With our amendments, we predicted to cut the deficit by 30 billion. Only from the position where specialized services and positions serve you for what our people would say – left hand, right pocket. That's why I'm surprised you accepted this amendment, but I'm not surprised there are no MPs here today who practically blackmailed the government to adopt budget rebalancing. You will adopt some amendments, first of all, when it comes to the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Here we have one proposal of a billion dinars for projects and we have three wars to pay off funds for capital investments. The Capital Investment Fund already owes 4.5 billion dinars. Mr. Cvetkovic, that's why you have so much pressure from MPs from Vojvodina. Do you even know if you have any control over the AP Vojvodina budget? Do you dare your colleagues, Prime Minister Bojan Pajtić, to stand up to you in any way? You probably shouldn't. How these funds are spent. They need them to finance the pre-election drip, because the elections are coming and that's why it's so much pressure. They're not aware that you're going to cheat on them and you're not going to fill this whole thing. When you adopt budget rebalancing, maybe the first war and respect, and these last two probably won't. My question to you is, where are you taking this country? It's about time you woke up. Just borrowing from day to day. We're getting more and more in charge. You're saying the budget rebalance is consistent with the IMF. He didn't. They wish our deficit was 240 billion, not 140 billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62001	Your task force has no time left. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. You only have two minutes per amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62002	Mr. Cvetkovic, in two minutes if I can convince you of anything, you'll be fine. I'll see to it that I'm as clear as possible. From the positions relating to the costs of the President of the Republic, which relate to fixed costs, travel costs, services and contracts, we are not asking for anything less than to remove five million dinars from all these positions and transfer them to fixed reserve funds. Why? Because that reserve, in fact the third position of the reserve, owes over 100m euros, or a billion euros, as you want in dinars, businesses, because businessmen pay taxes, taxes, people's food, hire, and so you can cut the cost to the president of 600,000 euros and 50 euros, because it will mean nothing to him, and to the businessman who has just taken to develop his business, it will mean a lot. What is also important, I did not ask for help from those businessmen who remained in debt to the state, but from those to whom the state owes. Those who remain in debt are your businessmen. They're well-known, so I don't list them by name and last name. To whom the state has remained in debt, it must be resolved. Imagine the situation, how does a citizen who owes the state today feel? He pays for the penalty, he goes to court, his assets are seized, companies are closed, companies are sealed. Then when the state owes, you say -- we don't have the money, we don't have the funds because we have the obstacles. Those hurdles of obligation are given here in this explanation. It is said that we cannot meet your request, because then expenditures are threatened, among other things, and the ninth UNESCO Regional Council of the President of the States. Imagine if we put this at risk, how many businessmen we're going to damage. Mr. Cvetkovic, I really think you should accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62003	Time. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Krasic doesn't have time for you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic.. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62004	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 which I have proposed that the item - fines and foams be reduced by two billion, and that these two billion be increased in the position of transfers to local self-government, i.e. cities and municipalities. I want to remind the citizens of Serbia, you know this well, that since the formation of this government in these last 3.5 years, cities and municipalities in Serbia have been damaged, or denied by over 50 billion dinars of transfer funds in the republican budget. After 3.5 years of depriving these funds to local self-governments, the same government that has also denied them has passed a law that increases participation in local self-government income tax and represents an epochal act. Local self-government is now getting more money than a profit tax. What about 50 billion dinars, which have been denied in the last 3.5 years? How many projects in Serbia's municipalities and cities have not been done because these funds have been denied? How many roads, streets, waterways, kindergartens? It is thick, up to a large number of towns and municipalities in Serbia being so credited, that it now literally barely serves its main functions for the functioning of local self-government. I really can't figure out that you're so rudely cheating on citizens in front of elections, that you did not know what, and that in those 50 billion, which have not been paid to cities and municipalities in the previous years, it's nothing to anyone. Also, it is a very interesting argument for not accepting this amendment, which says - the amendment is not accepted because it is legally not possible, since the funds are established on the economic classification of fines and penalty after the judgment of the courts have already been transferred. The amendment is legally possible, it's quite clear, but I just don't understand how legally you could have transferred the funds before the budget rebalancing. So now that we see this, you've already transferred those funds and now you're ironing that position with this budget rebalance. Who knows how many such positions are in this budget rebalancing, that you have already done something, and that you are now ironing those positions with this rebalance and that you have the courage to write it more publicly in an explanation for not accepting this amendment. I think this is invisible and it wasn't like that anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62005	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Here you go, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62006	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the light of the amendments, I'm actually going to continue the argument that I made during the discussion in principle. At the time, I did not agree with a 30 million-dollar reduction in the position of the coordination body. Mr. Prime Minister gave me an explanation on which I now have the opportunity to comment, that, in fact, the explanation was in terms of construction work, that the time had expired and that there was really no time left, but even enough working days to spend the rest of the funds. However, this is not about construction works, Mr Cvetkovic, but rather about the reduction in service positions per contract, a reduction of 12 million, donations to NGOs, a reduction of 10 million, and in buildings and construction facilities, machines and equipment, those 10 million reductions may be partly used for this purpose, which includes construction works. So here's the problem with the concept of body coordination, and this concept has been in recent years that some 421 million assets have been put into service, administration and body president's competence. The rest of the 253 was divided by municipalities and these funds were used. These are mostly construction works around infrastructure facilities, municipal facilities, public works that work in all three municipalities. So we have this intensity to leave quite a amount of resources to that administration. As you can see, it's now a 30 million reduction. I think in the end, there will be a few million left to return to the central republican budget, like 45 million recovered unused last year. I think there's this incomprehensible logic. On the one hand, it insists as much resources as possible and the spending of the president of the coordination bodies and its administrative services, without all municipalities and local self-government, although all these decisions and programmes and investments are determined in the Assembly or by the Assembly and the municipal councils, and here, the bureaucratic decisions of a man or administration are spent. That's why I've had some serious objections over the last year. That we representatives from that area only entered to be decor, icabana. Now what? And when such competences are taken over, they are absolutely, as you can see, not used, but returned to the central budget or reduced by rebalancing or eventually being, as last year, returned to the budget, untapped. We have a drastically catastrophic situation on the ground. Over 70% is the unemployment rate. There's no perspective on normal life. We just had a chance to hear the highway was built by a military base. Mr. Ilic was a minister at the time he was already starting to build that highway, he began in 1997 and never ended. Where's the logic here now? The highway that was there earlier, the Brotherhood and Unity, so it went from Belgrade to Athens, through Skopje there, and now someone is even questioning it. Do you think the citizens, besides Corridor 10, should they have something of infrastructure and have opportunities for economic development or should they all go away, to empty that space? They're not mountainous mountainous areas, but, as we know, they're still areas that have been here for centuries next to these major traffic stations, which, as you can see, have no conditions, not to develop, but cannot preserve the level they had 20-30 years ago. The situation is harder than it was even during the war. Even during that last programme was adopted to solve the crisis in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje. If people leave so massively despite these administrative obstacles, such as non-recognition of diplomas, not only from Pristina, but also from Tirana, Tetovo, these young people who end up at their own expense, colleges cannot be employed, both because of the disastrously difficult economic situation and because of these new administrative difficulties. The Albanians at these years, like the Roma so far, have become legally invisible. How do they register? How can you register legally invisible citizens or citizens who have gone to Europe, are now temporarily staying and voting? Does anyone have any doubts that even when the next vote won't be the same result? It is not only this government, but also a series of last governments have left a catastrophic difficult economic situation, to move, and Serbs are moving, normally. Who from patriotism will remain in this neglected area, which is next to Corridor 10? There are, in my opinion, contradictions and there are absurdities, that where there are the most favourable conditions, there are no concerns of these governments, as well as of these previous governments, that at least one minimum can be allowed for people there to have a perspective to survive without having to look for solutions just to go somewhere outside or in other areas. There's the point, and I don't think it's just this budget and this budget rebalance, just like the budget we adopted at the beginning, as in 2010. The 2010 issue is clear. I'm telling you, we've been cheated, because nobody's asked me alive when it was supposed to be spent. I'm interesting here when we should have, because we reorganized the co-ordination body, the sausages that the Albanians would come in and be equal, and there's no logic. How can we be even when no one has asked you anything about Preshev, Bujanovec and Bear? It took us two and a half years ago just as a decor, to give the signatures and continue as the old one. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62007	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62008	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, several amendments to the SRS parliamentary club refer to a reduction in the amount of individual expenditure in individual budget users, and we have even proposed to delete for individual users, because we considered them unnecessary, with the intention that these funds identified by them are used to reduce the debt of the state it has to the economy, according to domestic goods and services producers. With this concrete amendment to Article 4, we have proposed to reduce the amount defined for services under contract by 10 million dinars to the budget user of Serbia's Co-ordination Body Office for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. We believe that wherever it is possible to reduce expenditure and when we talk about the mentioned user, the proposed reduction would not affect its functioning, especially if we consider that this budget has identified a higher amount of funds on the economic classification of 463, and that, instead of 253 million is defined by 260 million and 500 000. By the way, the Bear is a municipality in the Jablani County, from which I come, and how well I know how hard it is to live there and the other two mentioned municipalities share the same fate. I want to take this opportunity to point out that the Lec mine has been working again for a year and a half already, but the conditions in which miners work were long needed to be subject to control by more inspection bodies. But when it comes to such things, the state closes its eyes, and those people who have to feed their family go to work in the mine, and as they go out, I repeat, it's already a job for various inspections. To return specifically to this proposal. The funds I was talking about should be shifted to the positions from which the budget will settle part of its commitments to the real sector, which will partly affect the reduction of liquidity in these three municipalities in southern Serbia. Otherwise, in the light of why this amendment was rejected, it states that the funds for services under the contract in the amount attached are needed because of the specific political situation in the three municipalities in southern Serbia. In 2001, the Co-ordination Body was formed for this very reason and it is time to take account now of the co-ordination body's contribution, the political situation in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja and respect for the law of the Republic of Serbia on the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62009	National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62010	The President-in-Office, Mr Djelic, I have submitted to Article 4 an amendment transferring funds from certain items of budgetary positions to other classifications. In fact, for several years it has been inappropriate to force and favour only one project, and this project is called "Fiat Cars Serbia". This year alone envisions 7.5 billion dinars for Serbia's participation in the joint venture and for the infrastructure, which is again an obligation for the Republic of Serbia to invest in this project, and for all other subsidies and aid to the economy of the Republic of Serbia, some 3.5 billion dinars are foreseen. We believe that it is a shame that this amount of money is being allocated, in particular 7.5 billion dinars for this project that will employ, at best 1,200 workers, while for all other companies, around 300 in Serbia, this year, 3.5 billion dinars will be allocated, and these companies employ around 60,000 people. It is absolutely incomparable and incomparable and we believe that this type of favoration is absolutely inappropriate and inadmissible. On the other hand, during this year, we have damages from natural disasters measured by billions of dinars. When these damages from the city and other disasters hit the municipality of Aleksinac, Nis, Blace, Prokuplje, Čačak, Kraljevo, etc., all government officials ran around the field, promising hills and valleys, that all damages would be covered, that they would be compensated for farmers, that infrastructure would be restored, and nothing was done from this to today. It is a shame to see that some poor resources amounting to barely 300 million dinars are provided, and only the municipality of Aleksinac suffered damage from a billion dinars. They've been paid $8 million so far. That's below 1%. It's really rude of the government, and we think that this amendment is appropriate, and I urge you to think about it and accept it. In this amendment, we have predicted that three billion dinars, which you have dedicated to the AP Vojvodina, are being transferred to a transfer of solidarity, in order to compensate for the damage you have done, as a government, to local self-government for these three years, in the form of over 50 billion dinars through reduced transfers, and these transfers will be directed to the poorest municipalities. It is truly inappropriate for the whole of Serbia to already know which way it pays high prices for the survival of this coalition. What is the price of today's session of the Finance Committee? How much do we have to pay more funds to Vojvodina to get this rebalancing through? How much longer are we going to act on the system to grease the fat goose? How long will this government behave like a kidnapper from the poor to give to the rich? When the vote ended in 2008 and we received a new government, the people expected it to be truly socially responsible for the government and to win a new Robin Hood in the image of Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Unfortunately, this Robin Hood has evolved into a Super Hika that kidnaps the poor and gives the rich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62011	Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62012	I believe we've already considered the Fiyat investment here several times. Since 2001, the first steps in restructuring, which were painful but necessary for one such investment to be possible today, have been invested hundreds of millions of euros. That money went to the preservation of both social peace and production minima that was not by standards, in a way that satisfied our market, let alone being the subject of exports. These investments we're talking about are huge, but they're investments. There is no money in these funds to preserve social peace, but to build one of the most competitive car manufacturing factories, not only in the Balkans, not only in the Fiat group, but in the world. Recently, I had opportunities just in Kragujevac, when we went to the opening of a large conference in the domain of stem cells, to speak to the new CEO of the company and he confirmed that this factory would be at the level of what they have in Brazil and Poland, the most productive plant in the world. That money is what ensures that our country has a 30% stake in the joint venture. A significant amount of these funds goes to infrastructure, from highways, trafo stations, logistics bases, anything that will help not only Fiat but other companies that work in Kragujevac, and most of them are domestic. We should remember one thing when we talk about this investment, which is that this way in Serbia will open the first car factory in the last five years in Europe and see that our idea of making Serbia a new Slovakia, which with a much smaller tradition in car production, has managed to attract even three manufacturers within six years and today with neighbouring Czech Republic is the country that produces the most cars per capita. Thus, with 20% of the participation in GDP exports, it has shifted to more than 100% of today's exports. In that sense, who knows which way I have to go and remind you and everything that this is not at all a waste of money but something that will provide and how interesting the base for further investment in our country, and not only in Kragujevac and Šumadia, because we see, from Nis to Subotica, that auto-competitives now, when they see the manufacturer coming, and how happily they invest in our country. As for the Kings, when you were talking about the elemental disasters, let's remind ourselves, that two billion dinars from different positions and not just those you mentioned were invested in solving the effects of the earthquake, and so it will be in the future. We know well, honourable MP, that these items are rare when large, but that Serbia has shown, especially these last few months after this fundamental disaster in the King, that it is able to mobilize all items from the budget, to resuscitate in the right way what happens when that accident occurs. As for the Royals, they know what has been done, but as the mayor said there, we go on, there will be provided additional support from the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the European Investment Bank, for those major ventures, above all in the housing and city hospital that are just expecting us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62013	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Lapcevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62014	Mr. Djelic, you have explained how justified Serbia's huge investment in a joint factory with the Fiat is. For this year, your budget says, seven and a half billion for that project. In the Zastava group, 4700 workers worked before and before the start of the "Fiat Serbia" project, and today at the "Fiat Cars Serbia" factory works 1200. Seven and a half billion dinars are invested in the project that will bring, sometimes some large benefits to Serbia, and three and a half billion were allocated to 40,000 people and 300 companies. Does that make any sense? How many people lost their jobs because of that? It's not just this project that's been favored. We're going to hire 1200 people over here, we're going to get a profit out of it in five, ten, maybe fifty years, but this moment or this year, or last year we've lost 500 thousand jobs. Is that normal? I don't think so. As for the natural disasters, don't twist words, I was talking about the elementary disasters that were this year in the form of a city that hit half of Serbia. Destroyed the entire agricultural production on the territory of the Aleksinac municipality. Over a billion dinars is a shame. The government of the Republic of Serbia has paid eight million dinars, it is a disgrace. What if he's doing so many municipalities with so much damage, with eight million dinars? Take a picture? Only 640 million dinars were damage directly to the crops. Is anyone gonna help these people? Last year they had two floods. Everyone went to take a picture, President Tadic himself in Vietnam, landed on a plane, a helicopter in the middle of the night. It'll all be taken care of, it'll all be settled, 15 million dinars paid, and over a billion and a half are damages. Is that how it's helped, and we see how we're helping "Fiat," that's what it's all about. You spoke this morning, at the beginning of the session, that the budget could not honor all the budget users in the extent that the law provided for it would then be a list of good wishes. Why do we always have to respect the last dinar of the commitment to the AP Vojvodina, but that's why we don't have to go to poor municipalities, we don't have to do local self-government, we don't have to finance any development projects in the poor parts of the country, but where votes depend on us to support the government and the budget – the sea. As soon as there are not enough votes for any project or for the law, he resorts to various blackmails, for three days we don't have a meeting of the Assembly, and on the fourth day, when "stop-pani" comes, whether the government falls or not, let's set aside another billion to grease the goose and get a new session and a new budget rebalance. It won't last forever.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62015	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by the MPs Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62016	I am sorry that Mr Cvetkovic is not here today, because he resented the MPs today that they are not concrete enough and that they do not have concrete proposals when it comes to reducing people who work in the administration. Here, this amendment is a very specific proposal to save and reduce the number of employees. I propose by amendment that the Office of the National Council for decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, is the Council for decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia, which was established at the beginning of 2009, that the funds provided for the salaries and fees to employees and services under contract, therefore, which are provided for this council, be transferred to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development about 24 million. Mr. Djelic is speaking on the phone right now so he won't even hear the question, but, let's say, I'd like him to answer me because I've tried every possible way to see what this Council on decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia has done so far? The only thing I know is that they've issued or printed a leaf called the Decentralizer. I don't know anything else about that office. I see that in answer to why you refuse this amendment, you say that by abolishing these funds would be a threat to the work of that office, but that was also the intention of this amendment, that this office would cease to exist because it has no results so far. You are further telling me that the funds are intended for the work of some expert working group of the National Council because one of their basic jobs is in line with the decision of the National Council "focused on education on the essence and benefits of decentralisation and decentralisation". So that's what this project is called, and that's what it's supposed to be. Here, I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to answer me why this office exists and why are the funds in the fund – the credit support programme of the economy, through the Development Fund, only three and a half billion dinars, when you singled out 7.5 billion for the Fiat alone?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62017	Mr. Vice President, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62018	The constitution which was the subject of consensus and with your party predicted that the ideas of decentralisation would be turned into reality. Recently, the Law on Public Property, including the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, has brought us closer to what the Constitution predicted. At the same time, the Regional Development Act also envisioned regions and a number of mechanisms and institutions. But it was observed that it was necessary to provide through one such office a much larger debate in our society, to provide enough political support, not only to process the topics in one technological way, administrative way, but to make it very important that these ideas of decentralisation exist. That is why offices, such as the Office for European Integration, whose elder I am, have a major role to play in helping other parts of the administration and informing citizens and all other institutions about what this is all about. Of course, like every institution, that office has to prove it has extra value. Nothing's ever been done. If an institution does not show that it has enough additional value, there is no reason for it to survive in some medium term. I am not hiding that the 2012 budget and later of the year have to see if all the institutions created over the past 10 years have their place. It is true that sometimes there is a duplication of some ingenuities, which is something that is not our country. It wasn't someone who did it on purpose, and that's the life, and in any case, I believe that we are expected to be saved in one, if I may in such a picturesque way to express myself, by all the institutions that have been created these years. As for what you said in terms of support for our exposed economy, you're right. It would be better and better if we had more resources, not to hear how our builders, for example, our best-price operative and the ability to win a particular tender, in the Middle East in Central Asia, Africa, can't do that because there's no support from a financial institution. Business banks in Serbia unfortunately do not have that line of business. We often talk to them about this, but it is evident that we need one of these institutions, and for this reason, as the Prime Minister announced, by the end of this year, the government will propose to the Assembly the Law on the Development Bank of Serbia, which will absorb the organisation, which everyone knows in Serbia by its English name AOF, which is essentially the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance, so that in this way I expect, as far as possible, to strengthen its capital for 2012, but we did not wait for it, you probably know, since this assembly is and in May of the month, if I am not cheating, we have provided 250m euros to support our exporters. I would like to use, tonight to call all exporters, these are domestic exporters, in the sense that they do not belong to one multinational company, they may be owned by some foreign owner, but until they are part of some multinational one, meaning this support we give, is not support for those who are part of a large multinational and for those who are among the largest 100 Serbian net exporters in 2010, they will have access to funds that go between 7 and 12 years, starts from one, two, up to four years and interest which, when absolutely all, all costs and accounts that will not exceed 5.5%, and not a small number of exporters are interested in building new plants and helping with permanent trade capital, to take advantage of even under extremely difficult circumstances of these options, to continue to export. You know that exports in our country have grown over the past year, of course it is not enough, but we are on a good path and believe the Government of the Republic of Serbia will support any initiative of the National Assembly that would strengthen that fateful, I must say, part of our economy. When I talk about it, you have well noticed that the Fiat has received support and the good news is that next year, if not next year, depending on the price of steel, if it is high, there will be no next, if it is on this level, the Fiat will be the largest exporter from the Republic of Serbia. The predicted exports of the Fiat are 1.4 billion euros from our country, with a net effect that will be 800-900m euros and this shows through this prism the absolute justification of this huge expenditure from our budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62019	The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic. You have four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62020	In fact, in your chosen words, by answering my question, you agreed with me that there are currently many offices, agencies, funds that actually don't do their jobs, and you're not exactly, in your chosen words you explained that this office is doing nothing, but 33 million dinars have been allocated to it. I tried to iron it with an amendment. You're advertising the establishment of this fund, and it's only a big accident that you remembered to form that fund at the end of this government's term, so, if you honestly thought about it, it should have been done at the beginning of the term, not at the end of the term.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62021	The amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62022	My amendment refers to Article 4. Section 35 and Chapter 3 point 18) of the regulatory reform office and the analysis of the effects of the regulations. We're asking for an amendment to erase it. We also appreciate this situation that you've made the expense of that office, but we're asking that these funds be transferred to the budget reserve. Mr. Djelic, I must draw your attention, you are the vice president in charge of European integration. You will spend 46 million dinars in the cabinet this year, of which 14.5 million for professional services to which you should pay some sense. But, Mr. Djelic, your office, your cabinet, has eight projects that are funded through donations. I do not want to call on you for those from 2004,2005, 2006,2007, and those who end in 2009, but how in column 10 you did not show up – Project, support for the national strategy of sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia, donation of the Kingdom of Sweden, and the second Project – support for the improvement of the social inclusion process in the Republic of Serbia, the donation of the Swiss Confederation represented by the Swiss Development Agency, that these dealers, the Ships in the territory of Switzerland, the project – building the capacity of instruments for the inclusive process of European integration, Norway 2010 and 2011, Mr. Djelic, you launder money. You in your office. You yawn, you yawn, you launder money, you get money from abroad...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62023	You're done, you're out of time. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62024	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you've said a few interesting things now, but I would ask you to land from that imagination 800, 900m euros in exports at an annual level, if steel is cheap, to return to the ground. One of your party colleagues asked us for something concrete, the SRS made an effort to meet him, and here I have brought a document with me, if you would be kind enough to look at it, there is no more concrete and materialistic thing than this, and I will explain to you why and how. This amendment asked for 600 million dinars to be defined at the position of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environment, to implement a project of sewerage fingers on Lake Vlasin. The lake of Vlassin is a region of exceptional qualities, protected by good and declared by the government's decision. Mr. Djelic, you sat in that government, too. I don't know if you know where the Vlassin Lake is, if you know that part of Serbia, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to comment on a few words about it. Following what you just said, therefore, that the idea of the Constitution is decentralisation, I call on you to accept this amendment if you dare from Mirko Cvetkovic and indeed support a tangible project of decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia. This is decentralisation, Mr. Djelic, not creating legal and administrative preconditions to create the future of the state, but to offer money to provide life for people in southern Serbia. Namely, there is no strategic or planning document that the municipality of Surdulica did not do. The Municipality of Surdulica, during the SRS in the previous term, did not need your law, and even less the European Union and without you, your laws and your ideas, all strategic and planning documents have been adopted. The project of the sewer ring for which we are looking for money is a project of regional character, relying on all the spatial, planning and strategic documents that were confirmed and verified by the government you were sitting in, Mr. Djelic. You have no argument to tell me you can't, you won't or you don't know how to finance, and all the other nonsense has found a foothold in this budget rebalance. The sewage ring project, Mr. Djelic, is worth 8.3m euros. We asked 600 million dinars to participate, and the rest of the money will be provided by international financial institutions who want to give it away. It would be no problem to provide for such a project or congregation support for local self-government, but we are asking for hearing from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As you swear to a balanced development of all parts of the Republic of Serbia, here's a chance to show it on one particular case. The South of Serbia, specifically the Pcinjski and Jablanski district, next to Corridor 10, which will not be in line with the decisions of the city's assembly and the interests of the area in Pcinjska, i.e. in Jablani County, but in the interest of some other lobbies, has no more important project than the sewerage ring on Lake Vlasin. The channelling ring on the Vlasni Lake is a project of regional character for which two districts and 13 municipalities of southern Serbia are alive because, Mr Djelic, in the primary realization of the sewer ring and tourism development strategy, or master plan in the area, about three thousand people should be employed. In secondary, let me say, after that, twice as much as that. There is no project that would return and inhale the life of more southern Serbia at the moment than the Vlassin Lake project. In addition to your obligation to provide a balanced development of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Djelic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has declared Lake Vlassin a region of exceptional qualities to protect water and at this point more interest and water care on Lake Vlassin shows multinational companies present than the state of Serbia. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we don't have oil, we don't have gas, but we have water. If any light bulbs in the government are going to come on over my head, I really don't know, but there's no more important strategic thing than this ring down there. You have 160 million cc's of free water on the Vlassin Lake on your annual level. Do you know what resource potential that is? The way they bomb countries today for oil, tomorrow they'll be grabbed for water. The government has, accordingly, made a decision to protect this water. The prerequisite to protect this water is this sewer ring. You must find a way or show some courage to accept this amendment. People of both counties who decide below, regardless of party and political colors, are ready to support this and participate in all this. You know, Mr. Djelic, Shipari in Presevo and Bujanovac wouldn't be involved in politics if we got this job, because a small economy from these two municipalities would find its own interest up there. Three thousand people should be fed daily, and I've given you devastating data on the depopulation of the area in the previous session only for one municipality, without speaking to those who are economically far below Surdulica, such as Bosilegrad, Trgovište, Crna Trava, etc. This project is directly based on the municipalities of Crna Trava, Vlasotince, Vladicin Han, Surdulica and Bosilegrad. Directly indirect of this has an interest in the strategic city of Leskovac and the town of Vranje, of course. You need to find a hearing for this. This is something that will ensure the development of southern Serbia. Now look at the irony, we've been waiting all day for the government of the Republic of Serbia to settle with parliamentary groups of government for a billion dinars, but they have blackmailing capacity. How can I make you, Mr. Djelic, accept this? I can't blackmail you, only to kidnap you after the assembly session. How can I make you accept 600 million dinars to give for southern Serbia? Here, you swear on a balanced development and swear on southern Serbia. What does the SRS have to do tonight to convince you that this makes sense? For Vojvodina you have defined a billion from the same position, the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. I'll remind you of one more thing, since my time is running out, I won't be able to bring an end to what I wanted to tell you. It provides 76% of GDP in Vojvodina and Belgrade, and for the rest of Serbia 23%. I'm glad Belgrade has, I'm glad it has Vojvodina, but I think you should accept this. This isn't an irrational project. This creates a space for people responsible from southern Serbia to come to the government to talk and indeed help citizens of 13 municipalities in southern Serbia to move their lives from a dead end there. In the Municipality of Crna Trava, which directly depends on this, there are as many residents as there are in one of the Belgrade polling stations. Don't remember southern Serbia when you need winters, tomatoes and peppers to chase for Belgrade. I'm not talking to you personally, of course. This is a concrete example and evidence that we have submitted you with life amendments, practical and very specific amendments. Show hearing, accept this amendment, you will do something positive and good for southern Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62025	It would be good if we didn't identify blackmail and dialogue terms, they were completely different. Mr. Djelic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62026	Dear People's MP, there's no reason to kidnap me, I'm going to suggest you come with a delegation of those municipalities you mentioned and with all the political colors. I've heard of this project and it's unequivocal that on November 15, we'll all get a series of bad news in terms of our country's East, South and West, so if we want to have a safer country, we have to support all the projects. It's true that water is a great resource. We've seen in the case of taking over "Rosse" by a multinational that there's an interest, there's a lot of such resources, so I think it would be much more useful if such an item were found in the 2012 budget. This item will only last until 31 December of this year, so I don't think there's room for any policy in terms of parties, but to see with the people who are responsible there so that if it turns out that this project is economically and socially profitable, at some point, it doesn't have to be within two to three years, as it is possible to build one financial structure. My experience is that if there are good projects and they end up getting funding. This is one of the reasons why I think the SRS might be able to revise its position on the European Commission, on the European Union, because 38m euros was provided in a package for last year's assistance to produce such projects. Getting candidate status is the moment when we can get this 200 million euros, as far as we're getting now, instead of spending it mostly on building institutions that are necessary, but not enough, there's this money for infrastructure, we can reroute that money to infrastructure, just like these projects you're talking about, and that's just the beginning. Of course, we don't need to go to Europe for money and at all costs, but under these difficult budget circumstances, I'm sure there's an extremely significant source of money for projects like the one you talked about on Lake Vlassin. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62027	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic, a replica. He says he's not well understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62028	I'll be brief. Mr. Djelic, I am not interested in the European Commission but in the Serbian government. I asked you, you said you were ready to talk, when you're ready to see people from southern Serbia, to specify what you're defined for. That's all I ask, tell me, when can these people come to the government of the Republic of Serbia, that you will receive them and that this story is opened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62029	Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62030	I answered - when we find a good moment in the next two weeks.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62031	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62032	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the presidency, ministers, I must support this amendment by defolt, as I come from southern Serbia, from the Jablani County. What is indisputable is that this natural resource is still a little closer to Belgrade we would have had that sewer ring and complete infrastructure by now. Since it is far from Belgrade, over 300km away, that proverb stands – far from the eyes, far from the heart. So I want to say a few words about this resource. So, Lake Vlassin is a lake located at a height of 1,200 meters. Otherwise, the largest artificial lake in the Balkans extends over 12km. So, what is also characteristic of that part of Serbia, Mr. Minister, and you are the principles of this topic, is that in the period from the last census to today, 20,000 people from the Jablani County have left. We see in it our development component. That is why it is necessary to support this amendment by Mr. Stevanović, because I think it is correct, that it is good and that it would also affect the development of all these municipalities that he listed. In fact, the government decided to finance one part of Southeast Serbia, which was the Old Mountain. Why don't you decide to finance this part of southern Serbia too? The Cemernik also has beautiful slopes for ski resorts and for some future skiers, and this master's plan enables it. Also, I want to tell you about your one minister who spoke – just you come to my office and we'll arrange everything. It's about Mr. Dulic talking about Corridor 10, who's always assured us he won't change the corridor of Corridor 10. However, it turned out not to be so, although he is a favorite of the municipality of Jablani County, Maltene is a half-municipated citizen. You see how he returns to the citizens of Jablani County. And the folk follow, when thou hast bread, thou hast stoned him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62033	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62034	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Before I even talk about this amendment, it would be good to know where the money from the services under the Treasury's contract went. We don't have that information, we don't have a final account, and we don't know where those funds went. The funds are extremely large – 275 million dinars. It's about the budget of a small municipality in the Jablani County of Lebanon. Otherwise, you could also define these funds for the Jablanic County military reservers who have been strikein' outside the SO city of Leskovec for months, but you didn't think to honor them. If these funds are defined for a consulting house that advised you how to sell Eurobonds of 724 million, and with a maturity of 7.8%, then it's a disaster for the government. With this amendment, we wanted to improve the work of another administration, which is the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, since that administration has extremely little resources, we wanted to define 10 million for that administration, but you seem to be the government that's "fighting crime" you haven't heard. I'm really sorry you didn't accept the amendment. There are no large funds, and since you still have time, I assume you want to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62035	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this budget was primarily said by MPs that it was not a budget that looks at balanced problems in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I've made an amendment to Section 18, Section 4, and I've suggested that certain amounts be reduced, because we think they're too large. At the justice academy, 118m, the item costs the taxpayers of Serbia. Why do we need a judicial academy? So far, Serbia has had an extremely good judiciary without a judicial academy. I understand that a judicial academy isn't needed at this point. We need, first of all, a military and police academy. I can accept that and agree with that. However, if you are looking at costs and services under contract, it is terrible, 48 million costs per contract. What's the cost of the contract? Who makes deals with whom, what amount and whom is it paid? I would ask a question and ask Mr Djelic if he can answer – does he know how much the Government of the Republic of Serbia received a donation from 2002 to 2011 for reforming the legislation and reform of the judiciary? They'd see where that money goes and whether it's controlled and whether it's rational or not. There have been words here, from colleagues who have highlighted the great problems that have been caused by elemental disasters. I must remind you that there are no items in the budget that could help the citizens of South Banat. Banatski Brestovac, Ivanovo, Omoljica and Starcheva had a billion and something...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62037	Finish your sentence, please. Time's up. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I have proposed that in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the economic classification of specialized services reduce the cost from 848 million to 548 million and thus save 300 million dinars, as well as to reduce subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations from three billion 750 million to two billion, thus obtaining two billion and 50 million to transfer to reserve funds. What is unfortunate, several tens of billions of dinars in Serbia are spent on specialised services and services under contract. What's problematic is that you don't know what this money is really spent on. In this rebalancing budgeted over 300 seats are these services, and all of which may be in five or six places is specifically listed what the money is spent on. In the DRI report, we had for the previous budget that money often goes to work contracts with natural and legal persons who often form the opposite of the Labour Act. Namely, these are occasional and temporary contracts that should last up to 120 days, and often in Serbia these contracts last for several years. It's also a big question of their realisation, whether they're even realising and whether they're even controlling it. Also, large funds are spent from these services for seminars, projects, gatherings, of which Serbian citizens do not benefit. What's even more interesting is that these services are constantly increased year after year, no one accounts for what that money is spent on. That's the ministry's favorite money, then. They get it every year more and more, and they don't account absolutely for anything, as much as they give it to who they give it to. It is necessary to reduce these costs, and to give money to agriculture, to invest in the economy, agriculture, industry, construction, mining, to speed up production itself, to speed up the export of the Republic of Serbia, and thus reduce the level of unemployment of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62039	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62040	My amendment refers to division 57. - The Ministry of Mining and Energy and we asked that it be deleted and it is appropriate to delete, given the government's reconstruction and six months, this ministry does not exist. It's not common for bodies that don't exist in fact to get involved in one legal regulation, and at least it's necessary here in the budget, but you've defined yourself for it. What's harmful is that you don't accept our amendments regarding savings, rationalization, etc. This is a unique case to shut down one ministry, while essentially moving towards reform procedures in the fields of energy, mining, etc. We got the mining law, the energy law. It's a strategy. In the next day, we'll talk about the mining law, the mining strategy is being prepared, etc., but you can do all this. Mr. Vice President, I need to point out a problem here. I've tried through this amendment, and through a number of amendments, the SRS has tried to paint it for you, and to show it through financial indicators, which is the necessity of investment in the economy. I especially need to highlight the problems facing enterprises that are in restructuring. As chairman of the Industry Committee, on several occasions we had this topic and we had a terrible amount of information on the problems in the area. The government is doing almost nothing to help these companies. What do you need to do? Help and relax their contractual obligations and free them from at least that burden, that there is no patronate by the Privatisation Agency. I'll just have one more sentence. We need to point out one move, let me point that out to you, about Icarbus. We're preparing a robbery privatisation of this company. I must warn you, that's what I told the Prime Minister, she's in the final privatisation phase. It's about one unserious move from the government and it's about a robbery privatisation that's going to be kidnapped, so to speak, part of the means that belongs to this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62041	National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Light, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 4 of this bill. I will remind you, this amendment refers to division 57v, i.e. the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. Unfortunately, it is known to everyone that this ministry has been abolished. With my amendment, I asked that the funds provided for this ministry be transferred to reserves. Of course, it is necessary and necessary to finance all those needs resulting from the abolition of this ministry, not to list, which are the care of workers and everything else. Of course, the government did not accept this amendment. The argument given for not accepting this amendment is interesting. As an explanation for the refusal of the amendment, you state the same reasons I cited for accepting it. I really have to wonder who's wrong here, not to use a harder word. I asked the funds to be transferred to the reserve, and the reasons for the non-acceptance is said – the amendment is not accepted because the funds should be transferred to mandatory reserves. Of course, I understand that you do not accept amendments to the SRS and that our efforts in writing amendments and analysis of all laws are not appreciated, especially on one such law as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. What I regret and what is not good, which is why this ministry has been abolished in the first place. Its abolition has abolished the slow development of Serbian science and Serbian technology, and this will have far-reaching consequences for Serbian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62043	Time. The word has a vice president, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62044	I think one of the elements of the consensus in the country is what you said, and that is, given this dreary demographic image that we're all going to figure out and not since yesterday, which has existed since the early '70s. The only country that doesn't have rich natural resources is to invest in knowledge. I just want to remind you that in what you said, there are two elements. One element is technical. The fact is, given the ministry's merger, it's normal to find a part of the budget in this budget rebalancing that reminds us of the funds spent while there was a separate ministry. It is normal, since the Assembly voted to amend and supplement the Ministry Act, that the lags from the moment these ministries are joined, it is found in one position. The second question, which is essential, is that this progress made this year, which meant an increase of 30% of the number of researchers, more significant assets invested in investments – we are now witnessing that, with the already mentioned stem cell centre, with the return of our distinguished expert, Professor. Stojkovic, who is now tasked with making a team of 20 to 40 young experts around him and is now in charge of him. We'll have investments in Nis, around the science and technical park. We have investments in Valjevo, at the station of Petnica, in Belgrade, on Zveztar, to complete this project that started 20 years ago. In Kragujevac we have, along with the mentioned stem cells, the same technology park and a series of other investments, such as the Science and Materials Centre in the 39th block. What is also important is that Serbia performs for the first time in an organized manner. This budget rebalance will make it possible to acquire as much as 50m euros in equipment, not designed by someone in a cabinet, but what our teams have suggested and what our scientific teams have assessed as suitable and in one rational way we are now appearing on the international market. As well, and that's a very painful point. I know there are a lot of scientists in this assembly, starting with the president. That painful act was expendable material. It has been provided for Serbia, for the next four years, 40m euros for consumer material. Instead of our teams going one by one, at a time when there is little money for direct material costs and wages, sometimes two and a half times the catalog price, I can tell you that interest in the international market is now great. If I may put it this way, we are boxing with the full power of the entire scientific community of the Republic of Serbia. We'll be able to pay even below the catalog price a much better asset and a much better performance. By joining the Ministries, it won't compromise at all. My colleague and I work as one. Everything we've started, we'll end it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62045	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Saviæ, there really is no basis for replication. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62046	The amendment proposes to delete in Article 4 the 57g division relating to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. The ministry law passed before 11 March this year abolished the ministry of human and minority rights. It has been transformed into a new law by the Human and Minority Rights Administration, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the state administration and local self-government. The funds for the non-existent ministry should be transferred to the budget reserve, which will finance the cost of abolishing the ministry and wrap up the process. The government is unable to implement a proper reconstruction of the pre-gglomerated government, but with the simple merger of certain ministries it has kept all previous, with the same administration and extra employees in them. The trick that the government has been reconstructed, and virtually all the state apparatus remains unchanged, is seen in this budget rebalancing. You in section 57g for a ministry that doesn't exist, you define 82,476,522 dinars. Of course, these are not funds for human and minority rights management, since you have allocated 285,305,000 dinars to that purpose with this rebalancing. You only point to various concessions and interests of individual parties in the government, and to the harm of all Serbian citizens. Instead of promoting economic activity by government measures and so full budget from real sources, we have a daily shut-down of economic operators. Thus, according to the Agency for Business Registers, 10,800 companies were shut down in this year, and thus there was no budgeting and contribution on a variety of grounds. In addition to the fact that there has been no planned budget charge, you're acting irrationally and outlining over 82 million for the shut down ministry. Also, this amendment requires an increase in the funds of the reserve in section 17 of function 160, economic classification 499, for the amount you have allocated to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. This reserve requires payment of debts to domestic goods and services producers and thus the liquidity to be achieved. You are in line with why this amendment is not accepted that the funds transferred to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government, which has been taken over by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights by these means by employees, appointed persons, rights and obligations, subject, equipment and archives, which is quite the opposite of what Mr Cvetkovic said today, that the Law on the Reduction of Administration is respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62047	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62048	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Section 57, this amendment was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group with the same intention as any amendments relating to the ministries which ceased to exist after 11 March this year, when the new Ministry Act entered into force, i.e. When it's finished, so-called. the reconstruction of the government. The amendment to the 57th division refers specifically to the Ministry of Trade and Services, which no longer exists after the reconstruction, and its competences have been transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management. For the work of this budget user, the funds are provided and presented by this draft law, amending and supplementing the 2011 Budget Act, in section 19, which is why the position of the SRS is to be deleted in Article 4 of Section 57. The way the government has acted since March of the month to date shows that there was no real willingness to change anything, but compromises have been made in the interests of the parties, which form the ruling coalition, and individuals. I will remind you that when only new combinations of people who will be head of the ministry were actually made, there was a lot of talk about the fact that there was awareness in the government of their own premaritality and that it needed to be reduced, because after the reduction of work would be more efficient and cheaper. Today, after seven months, instead of really having the results of this promised efficiency, we in the proposal for a rebalance, which, in front of us, see the budget deficit increased by another 22.2 billion dinars, totaling 142.7 billion. This has withdrawn new responsibilities, which in the conditions in which our fragile economy is located does not lead to a good path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62049	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62050	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, through our amendment we intended to increase the total amount of subsidies in agriculture, first and foremost in the section relating to agrarian payments, to increase the amount by 10 billion dinars, to remove it from the position of Section 20 of function 410 and economic classification 621, so I apologize for the printing error that followed in the typing of this amendment. The mistake is written by 624 economic classifications. Fact, she doesn't exist like that. So our intention was to increase significantly the total amount of subsidies, estimating that our agricultural production needs to be provided with greater incentives, in order to achieve greater results, in order to help more seriously through these subsidies to all agricultural producers, and above all those who have registered holdings, but also in literally all others who deal with this activity. In view of the total number of employees in our country, agriculture is still the largest number of these people. On the other hand, we believe that the overall situation in agriculture is such that, in addition to all the promises made, this authority has not yet fulfilled what it has promised, that these subsidies should be increased significantly. In the end, what is the situation in our agricultural production, I think it is well and qualified for the EU and just by giving this recommendation to obtain candidate status. This clearly underlines that the area of agricultural production needs to be improved in our country, especially so-called. rural agriculture. So, the situation in these rural rural areas is the worst of agriculture. In the end, we all know it and certainly the representatives of this government know it, but unfortunately, they have done little in the past to improve more seriously agricultural production here. That's why we have one complete devastation of our villages, where they are in significant extinction, where they are estimated to disappear from the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the next to ten years, near 500 villages. Here, and the first of these preliminary results, which are shown or presented after the census, are exactly what they say, can be said, even of an extremely difficult condition for our people and one depopulation and the extinction of our nation, our people. I think it is high time that through significant incentives in the area of agricultural production, above all, in these rural areas, the final outflow of the population from these environments was stopped, to significantly improve the social situation and economic situation in these environments and certainly significantly raise the level of agricultural production both in quantitative and qualitative terms, because it will then contribute to the overall agricultural production being at a higher level, greater volume, and certainly to greater quality. For these very reasons, and we believe that it is uninvited this year to allocate so much funds for this project "Fiat", because this country has been financing this project for more than three years and there is no serious result, and even on the announcements of the top people "Fiat" more serious production, not more serious, but production will only start from mid next year. As we could hear half an hour ago from the esteemed vice president, some net income is expected by exporting cars in 2012, about a billion and $400-500 million. It'll be the biggest export. Mr. Vice-President, this country just exported from agriculture last year with such an incentive, with a situation like this, exported the European and world-wide total goods worth over $2.5 billion and made a net income or a positive foreign exchange balance in that trade of nearly $1 billion and $500 million. I'm sure so many Fiats won't make any significant revenue for the next few years. Furthermore, I think the creation of delusions among this people is that "Fiyat" will invest in this production in all the problems it has in the country of origin and this country of origin - Italy will invest so much strength and tenacity in this production and that we as a state will profit in this business and that "Fiyat" will reach that level of production and be competitive to some leading countries in Europe, in car production. You yourself said that this is where Slovakia, the Czech Republic, which almost a million cars make and export to the market annually. Some 400-500 million cars are also installed in Hungary, and the Fiat projection is up to about 200 to 250 000 cars in the next few years. So it entered the project. I agree that it should be financed, but I think it is extremely irresponsible for this authority to refer to agriculture, that it is extremely irresponsible and irresponsible to provide such a small agrarian budget in this year, and it was an opportunity for it to increase through this rebalancing and that you did not take this chance. We're waiting for a new budget to see how much in that last year of government, where you're going to make that budget, you're going to set in the agrarian budget, and how many of those great promises you made in 2008, how many of them are you going to keep? We must not forget that agriculture and food production and how competitive it is in the European and world markets and that our country can, with only a slightly greater increase in subsidies, mean incentives and incentive measures, perhaps in a year, two of these total foreign exchange incomes that are realised and with such incentives. It is alarming that in some sectors agricultural production, the situation is what it is, especially in livestock production. If we do not have quality livestock production, advanced and if these do not change in plant and livestock production, in favour of livestock production, we cannot talk about the progress of our agricultural production. If we look at the data published by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce in September, where everything is exported from our country, from the total exports of agricultural products, 2% is exports of meat and meat products, but more than that, our country was imported, from total imported goods, 4% of meat and meat products. So, we have imported twice as much meat and meat products as we have exported, although, in terms of total items both in exports and in imports, it is minor, but nevertheless, it should be worrying about both this authority and all others dealing with the area of agricultural production. So, in order to change the situation in that vault, we have given this amendment. We didn't expect you to have any understanding and accept it, but I hope that just when the time of the new elections comes, and it is imminently approaching, it will realistically assess what you have done and what you have fulfilled of all promises made.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62051	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62052	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr Djelic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that the determination and determination of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is clear when it comes to rebuilding and resuscitating houses and objects destroyed in an earthquake that has hit the King. It is a positive and it is a responsible relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this elemental disaster, towards the citizens of the Kings. It's something the SPS-JS Parliament Club will always support. We also expect that the government of the Republic of Serbia will show the same determination, same determination, same responsibility when it comes to the completion of the recovery of buildings and houses destroyed in the earthquake that hit Valjevo and Kolubar County in 1998. So, the devastating earthquake hit Kolubar County in 1998, we are talking today about budget rebalancing, in 2011, we are in 2011, and the restoration and rehabilitation of destroyed buildings and houses in the area of the Kolubar district is not yet completed. Mr Djelic, governments and parliamentary in Serbia are variable, it is democracy, but a relationship to essential and issues that are vital to citizens, should never, should not and cannot be variable. Therefore, the elemental disaster and the recovery of the elemental disaster cannot and should not be the responsibility of the current government of the Republic of Serbia, but of each of the next governments of the Republic of Serbia, until the complete recovery and reconstruction is complete. You know, nature took something away from someone, took away objects, in particular the citizens of Kolubar County, the municipality of Mionica, the town of Valjev and the other four municipalities, took away the houses and facilities they lived in. Governments passed, parliamentary majority changed, the resolution was not over. These citizens are absolutely not interested in who makes the government of the Republic of Serbia, which makes up the parliamentary majority, they are interested in answering only one essential issue for them, which is when the reconstruction and rehabilitation of buildings and houses destroyed in the earthquake that took place in 1998. For the fourth year in a row, from the moment this parliamentary majority was formed, after May 2008, until today, every year when we are discussing budget rebalance, when we are discussing the budget, I am investing in the same amendment, to point out the need to allocate more funds in order to bring about this complete recovery and reconstruction of the buildings that were destroyed in the earthquake in 1998 and to finally put an end to this extremely important issue for the citizens of the Kolubar district. This year, I first submitted an amendment to increase the funds, and then, seeing not that the funds were being considered to increase, but rather, with this budget rebalancing, the first reduced funds originally planned for rebuilding and rehabilitating houses were reduced by some 96 million dinars compared to what was planned for the 2011 budget. Mr. Djelic, it's not good and it's not a responsible attitude towards citizens. With this budget rebalance, you said, there was reduced expenditure on capital investments, but what is positive, in the second part you said very clearly that it would not stop the completion of capital investments, and Corridor 10, bypasses around Belgrade, apartments in the former "Stepa Stepanovic", a bridge from Zemun to Borca. So we agree, savings at the state level, when we all feel the negative effects of the economic crisis, should be priority. Mr. Djelic, there are things that can't be saved. I first used my parliamentary right and submitted an amendment to increase the funds for this purpose, and nsiam thought that this amendment would be adopted in the rebalancing process, but I wanted to point out to you the need to think about this topic when we talk about the 2012 budget, we will also talk about the funds that have been allocated. When I tabled the amendment, I received an argument that was absolutely unreasonable to me. I have only one part of that argument to read to you, he says – according to data provided by the Department for Construction and Development of the Kolubar County to the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning as a Resort Ministry. In its 2011 financial plan from 1998 to 2011, funds totalling six billion 741 million dinars were transferred on 11 October 2011, which is a larger amount than the estimated damage, six billion 120 million 388 dinars. In the past three years, Mrs Dragutinovic has been dragging the same reasoning, this is an explanation, probably trying to fascinate us with figures. It's not disputed, it's as isolated as it's written, the assessment was this big, but that assessment was made in 1998. Did six billion in 1998 when an estimate was made and six billion today in 2011 have the same value? The second part of the argument is said – in the previous period, the Directorate was in line with the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010, providing specifications and ending situations on the basis of which the funds were transferred. In this way in 2011, listen to this, by 11 October 2011, funds amounting to 82,910.322 dinars were transferred, this is very interesting. By the end of the year, 96 million remain available. Be careful, the budget rebalancing proposal reduces the funds by 96 million. In an explanation I get from the administration, probably the government of the Republic of Serbia administration and the resolution ministry do not know but who, they say -- the remaining funds of 96 million and are said to be among other things not to show the need for additional funds of 100 million dinars that I tried to make with the proposed amendment. Mr. Djelic, I'd like to tell you a few more things about this matter. In the period from 1998 to 2011, about 5,000 residential buildings, 65 schools, three local self-government buildings, seven cultural centers, 10 churches and 15 collective housing facilities were renovated or built. According to the new methodology, which has been established, there are 1200 more damaged objects that can be completed in the next three-year period. It takes two billion dinars for 1200 buildings and 600 million dinars for the reconstruction of social and public buildings and a projection was made at the level of the Kolubara District's Reconstruction and Development Directorate. It was delivered to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Today, I also received this information from representatives of the Colubary County Rehabilitation and Development Directorate. So it takes about two billion dinars for 1200 objects. The average size of the building is 63 meters square, and the average cost of construction is 280 euros per meter square. So we know that these funds cannot be allocated in one budget year, but a projection can be made for the next three years, and that was a proposal from the Board of Directorates for Reconstruction and Development of the Kolubara District. Do you know that in June of the month, the Board of Directors for Reconstruction and Development of the Kolubara District adopted amendments and additions of programmes that are in line with the new situation on the ground and the new decision, and this decision is very clear when it comes to building buildings and houses that are torn down in earthquakes, buildings and houses are built by the most socially endangered categories and families whose facility is intended for housing. So they have this house and they have absolutely no one else and that methodology found that we need another 1200 objects. It says here that no specifications have been delivered, that no certificates have been delivered. Now the question arises – why didn't the Government discuss it if the Directorate delivered it to the Resoring Ministry in June? Also mentioned here are the dynamics of the needy, i.e. payment. Do you know what the basic problem is? It's slowed down the transfer of funds. The last need that was made by Directorate September 10th has not yet arrived. So this means that it's practically impossible to make contracts with companies would not make companies that appear as contractors, in perspective, so after the end of the job get into trouble because there's no money to pay for what they've been doing. When we talk about the Directorate, all we mention here is the restoration and rehabilitation of buildings and houses destroyed in the earthquake, but the full name of the Directorate – the Directorate for Reconstruction and Development of the Colubar County, not only the restoration but the development of the entire Kolubar district. Please keep that in mind. I believe that you will see something that is reality and I believe that you will think about it when it is analysed and rebalanced, i.e. the 2012 budget. And now, at the very end, after this amendment, seeing not only the increase in funds but also the reduction of funds for this purpose, I have submitted an amendment to try to return to that original state, that is, the amount allocated to the 2011 budget for reconstruction and recovery. The Committee did not accept the amendment on the grounds that the amendment was not complete because it was supposed to be in that amendment, so I received information that was a member of the board, one part concerning Vojvodina and projects, so the funds for projects in Vojvodina of millions of dinars and another part of the amendment submitted by the Committee, as regards the Kolubar County, the proposal to return the funds, because I simply wonder, Mr Djelic, I will deliver to you after tonight's debate of the amendment committee, I will provide you with an amendment that I have submitted to this member, and I would like you to tell me what is complete and in which a more complete amendment of the committee that has been defined today and the correction of the amendments that I have submitted. But the bottom line is this, it's important that at least those funds that are intended for reconstruction and recovery in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62053	Mr. Vice President, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62054	Thank you, you're right, in the end you mentioned that it was all part of an amendment proposed by the Finance Committee, and I don't think there could be any dispute here so that we have legal justification. I think the most important thing is to achieve results and a little less authorship. I think this exposure has given you that authorship. On the other hand, we still have to notice that when we talk about the resolution of the consequences, here we are 13 years later and we still have that one instrument and I think that at some point we should, if not this one, then the next government should draw a line and see each other as far as we really can with that recovery because somehow it's not going, it's not logical that 13 years later we're thinking about the recovery of some elemental accident. I remember 2002. In 2003, there were questions whether it was going to be some sort of recovery and the two categories you were talking about, the recovery and development were two separate things and I think those two things should go back to some frameworks, which are now modern under these laws that we have now. Anyway, until further notice, I think it's been found, through this amendment to the board, one good solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62055	Thank you, Vice President. Does Mr. Milicevic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62056	Very short. I thank Mr. Djelic and only two, three sentences. It absolutely doesn't matter who has the authority. I've been talking about this since the moment I entered the Republic Parliament and I said, year after year, I have submitted one and the same amendment, to point out the need to allocate more funds and to rebuild and resuscitate the Kolubar district already once again. I agree, completely with you, and I'm glad we're talking about this tonight. It's not good that there's so many of us in the O.R., but I'm glad we have one very important topic and we have the opportunity, and we have time to think about it until the moment we create the 2012 budget. I'm asking you to keep that in mind as one of the priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62057	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4th of the amendment is the International MP Judita Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP Miroslav Markicevic submitted a correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Finance submitted an amendment to Article 4 of section 23. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popović and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21-nation MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric. The government has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic and Bojan Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Finance Committee submitted an amendment to Article 7. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Đuric submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 10th amendment in the same text, MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11, the MPs Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic jointly submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The prime minister wants to speak to us, please, Mr Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62058	Dear People's MPs, at the end of this debate, I would like to thank all those who have taken part in it, both those who have criticised and gave some different views in relation to the government and those who have supported and since the debate has been successfully completed, I urge you to vote for this rebalancing by the end of this calendar year, including the position and opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-10-17-0.u62059	Thank you, Mr. President. Since we've conducted a search on all amendments, I've concluded a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank you all for your participation. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
