ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53116	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. At this special session, pursuant to Article 119(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly, called for the oath of the president and members of the Fiscal Council, who, in accordance with the law, take an oath before the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to call upon the elected president and members of the Fiscal Council to enter the O.R. I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the First Session of the First Regular Session in 2011, held on 31 March 2011, selected Mr. Dr. Pavel Petrovic as Chairman of the Fiscal Council, and Mr. Vladimir Vukkovic and Mr. Nikola Altiparmak, as members of the Fiscal Council. I also remind you that Article 92b is point 4. The law on the budgetary system found that, after the election, the members of the Fiscal Council took an oath before the National Assembly, taking office. Accordingly, I call on the President and the members of the Fiscal Council to approach to take the oath. I ask the MPs to stand up and ask the members and president of the Fiscal Council to approach the oath. (The chairman of the National Assembly reads, and the president and members of the Fiscal Council repeat the text of the oath. ) "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia. I promise to obey the Constitution and the laws. I pledge my honor to do my duty independently, honestly, and to the welfare of the present and future generations. "I ask the President and members of the Fiscal Council to sign and surrender the text of the oath to the National Assembly. I thank you on my behalf and on behalf of all the MPs, allow me to congratulate you on our common name on your choice and wish you a great deal of success in your work. Much depends on you in the future on the fiscal control of good spending of public money and the public working in the area of public finances. Thank you very much, I wish you a lot of success. It won't be easy for you, and we'll call you from time to time to ask you how you're doing. Thank you very much. I conclude the fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I call upon the service of the Protocol to escort the president and members of the Fiscal Council from the National Assembly. (The session is over at 10:15 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53117	THIRD SESSION OF THE FIRST REGULAR SESSION 5 April 2011 (Second Day of Work) (The session began at 10.15 hours. The chairman of Gordana Komic, vice-president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53118	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the members of the Verhovna Rada Ukraine, who are on official visit to the Republic of Serbia and are currently present at the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly. The delegation includes: Mr. Volodimir Litvin, President of Verhove Rade Ukraine, His Excellency, Mr. Viktor Nedopas, Ambassador of Ukraine to the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Yevgenij Suslov, Mr. Yevgeny Geller, Mr. Andrej Naydjonov, Mr. Dmitro Markov, Mrs. Olga Čorna, Mr. Kirilo Tretjak, Mrs. Irina Karmeljuk, Mr. Oleksandr Kiričenko and Mrs. Natalija Markevic. Welcome to the National Assembly, our dear guests from Ukraine, we wish you successful work and stay in Serbia and come back to us. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. To determine the quorum needed to work, please all MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the normal work of the session. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending, the session shall run on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which in the first position says: "The MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues from the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which are necessary for the MP to exercise his office. "Station 2 says: "Extremely, the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise the right of the position of the 1st member at a session of the National Assembly orally in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate." The word has the People's MP Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53119	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for Mr Sutanovac, Defence Minister and for Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, what's this about? Ivanovic Radosava Predrag, born in Kralje, mobilized by the Army of Serbia from the Kingdom, died on April 2, 1999. He left behind his wife Vesna and daughter Tiana, 20 months old at the time of his father's death. The competent court has made a decision and has granted them 300,000 dinars for the murdered father, i.e. the husband, a wife of 450,000 dinars, and a girl of 20 months of age, 450,000 dinars. It would be all right if the other day a review of the Nish military attorney's judiciary had not organised a new process and in this process required that the Tiana girl return 150,000, who was neither guilty nor in debt nine years ago. The D.A. makes such a decision that a minor girl has to pay 150,000 back to the state, with a tight interest. As a People's Messenger, it certainly hurts me a lot how they're forced to charge. Will the D.A. take her doll or hooligans or toys? What's 150,000 after nine years? The blackest of all is that they demand and tighten the appropriate interest from 2002 to today. I'm afraid this procedure in many families of fallen fighters doesn't cause a huge revolution and can have inconspicuous and inappropriate consequences. I believe that Mr. Sutanovac and Mrs. Snezana Malovic could withdraw this decision and that the 11-year-old child would not go to court to return these 150,000 dinars, which neither the guilty nor the debtor had made any other decision from the elderly, and not the little one to pay back those 150,000 dinars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53120	The word is from Ambassador Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53121	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a month ago in the National Assembly, an educated task force has been tasked with preparing a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the selection of MPs. As far as I know, this task force has held only one meeting, where we have established and discussed the questions and tasks given to us by the National Assembly. However, not all representatives of the parliamentary groups were present, but we unanimously decided that it was not good to amend election laws in the election year, and that election rules could change primarily in terms of the decision on the blank resignations and how this would work in the future. A few days ago, I had the opportunity to read in a daily paper that the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, sent a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the selection of MPs to the Venice Commission. I do have a question for the president of the National Assembly, who made this proposal, who sent it to the Venice Commission, when we, at least members of the task force, would be familiar with the amendment and addition of the Law on the selection of MPs, since this morning as the main news, it was announced that the Venice Commission had given the opinion that amendments to this law were necessary and that the draft which was submitted to them did not meet the conditions and criteria they had signed. I really ask that we get this proposal as soon as possible, because in the conversation with my colleagues, as far as I know, none of them have seen that draft, and someone else is considering how representatives are going to be elected in this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53122	The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53123	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, today we ask the representatives of the regime, the government of the Republic of Serbia and Boris Tadic himself, as long as they humiliate the citizens of Serbia and as long as they degrade Serbian victims. We are informed from the media that yesterday at the Mala Zvornik border crossing, Karakaj, Božidar Vučurević, Mayor of Trebinj, was arrested. The judicial authorities reacted quickly, the investigative judge in the Supreme Court in Sapac immediately ordered detention and already announced that Bozidar Vucurevic is not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and that they are considering handing him over to Croatia. This is indeed a scandal that is one in a series of scandals of this kind that makes this regime and really raises the question, in fact we Serbian radicals are asking the regime how they blindly listen to the red warrants of the Croatian state or BiH, and they are easily disowning the warrants they write themselves. What about the warrant against Ganic, against the Divjaks, Jurisic and a series of others suspected of violating war crimes against Serbs. What war crimes did Bozidar Vukirević commit? The red BOLO was called for the alleged shelling of Dubrovnik. Bozidar Vucurevic only bothered them because he was defiant, not bending his back and Bozidar Vucurevic arrests the state of Serbia, shame and shame. Boris Tadic takes an unofficial walk with Croatian officials, a class with Josipovic, a class with Kosorko, receives orders from them, and it did not occur to him that when he saw himself the other day with Jadranka Kosor, instead of negotiating with a godfather, he must remind himself that he must not discriminate against the citizens of Serbian nationality in Croatia and that he must not force them to sign up in this current list as Orthodox, but as a Greek Catholic, or as a union. It did not occur to him that he was asking if anyone would be responsible for Storm, Flash, Medak pocket, when he spoke to representatives of BiH, when someone would be responsible for the Tuzlan column, for Voluntary Street, for thousands of other victims, but that's why he is as ready as the entire regime, as judges and prosecutors, as we have been informed from the media, who were elected, the DBs, to execute any order they receive, whether from BiH, whether from the Hague tribunal, or from Croatia. In the inability to arrest Ratko Mladic, he will arrest all Serbs who have ever been to any battlefield in the last country wars. The number of Serbs on the Croatian warrant is measured by thousands, and the number of Croatian citizens, mostly non-Croatians, is measured by single-digit numbers. Now again, the minister of justice, as he announces, will be reviewing and saying again that the final list of those Serbs who are looking for a variety of arrest warrants from Croatia will be so until one of them is deceived and crossed the border. Of course, he will be arrested there, and if he is arrested here, he will be extradited, as you intend to hand over Bozidar Vukirević. I followed the portal of one daily newspaper last night, a huge number of citizens wrote and all convicted, 98% of the citizens who were on that portal, representatives of the regime for the shameful arrest of Bozidar Vukurevic, and one of those people wrote: the Japanese will have less consequences than Fukushima than the Serbs of the Boris Tadic regime. Unfortunately, the man told the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53124	Do any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups or the president of the parliamentary groups report for a word to exercise their right under Article 286? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to ask a parliamentary question, why there is no answer to the questions that we have asked many times and concerning those problems that have been recorded and which have come to the prosecution and cannot possibly answer those questions. One of the questions I would ask today, you remember well that there have been extremely many attacks, that some of the previous governments owed to the travellers, that there have been problems and that there have been dissatisfaction, that these accounts have been paid by some of the credit lines that have been made, that is, when the Roads Directorate has been transformed into a public enterprise and that it is said to be paid day after day and that all of these works that have been done, that all of them have been paid, and today your travellers strike and come before the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that in previous governments, no passengers have come before the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that these debts have been completed. Wherefore now new debts, who didn't pay for the work done, how much it is due today to the travellers of Serbia, when these obligations were created, who created them, and how they could be carried out, if the funds were not provided. Were these works done in tenders and how could tenders be international, if the funds were not provided for the financing of these projects? Therefore, this is an extremely important question and I would like the authorities to answer one of these questions. I would also ask a very significant question. In every home, I think of Serbia, cable television has entered the small door, without the possibility of any control and without paying that natural resource to the state, or to the Republic of Serbia. Today cable TV distributors are completely out of control and they raise prices. Here, now they've got the malts up to a thousand dinars a month for the family. The question would be this – how is it possible, for example, for the SBB to rule out someone’s full viewing of television programs and who authorized them to cut all antennas off objects, if the user pays an orderly subscription to RTS? Why does RTS charge the subscription if the SBB can execute the exclusion of the irregular payment at any time, regardless of the orderly payment of the subscription to RTS? Does anyone who pays RTS a neat subscription have the right to watch only RTS? Why don't they find some relationship between RTS and SBB, or some other cable distributor, and regulate each other's relationships, but we'll simply be denied watching TV programs, and we'll pay the subscription neatly? So that's a significant question. There are more and more exclusions across Serbia and people, so they should not pay RTS. I don't see why anyone would pay RTS when it's completely controlled by a cable distributor and regardless of how neatly he pays he can't get any service because a cable distributor has full control over all the TV users.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53126	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want to exercise their right under Article 286? No, I don't. I'm asking you a second time? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives, are answering for a word, we continue our work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, Konstantin Samofalov, Zoran Nikolic and Zoran Shami. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 80(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not to be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly Chairman, Ms Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, called for the joint principle and uniform examination of the proposals of the law in points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 18 of the agenda, in addition to the representative of the promoter Snezana Malovic, justice ministers, the sittings also attend: Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Jovan Ćosic, head of the Department of Justice, and Zlatko Petrovic, senior adviser at the Ministry of Justice. We're continuing our work. We move to item 1-4 and 18 of the agenda: –LAWS ON ADVOCATION, PUBLIC ASSESSMENT, IMPLEMENTATION AND SECURITATION, AMENDMENTS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF CRITUAL SANCS AND CONCERNING THE CONCERNATION OF THE INDICATION OF THE INDICATION OF THE CRIME CRIME CRIME (Common Main and Single Search) I would like to remind you that, pursuant to Article 97, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the basic procedure, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to the parliamentary groups of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and this is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the parliamentary group of New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to apply for the word immediately and with the order of the MPs, because they are based on Article 96(4). The rules of procedure of the application for a word shall be adopted until the opening of the point in principle, i.e. the search. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs on these agenda points: MP Siniša Stamenković - MP group PUPS; MP Laslo Varga - Parliament group Manjina; MP Djordje Milicevic - MP group SPS-JS; MP Miroslav Petkovic - MP group DSS; MP Nikola Novaković - MP group United regions of Serbia; MP Srdjan Spasojevic - MP Nova Serbia; MP Judita Popovic - MP group LDP and MP Petar Jojic - MP group of SRS. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform search on: draft law on law on law on law on law on public records, draft law on enforcement and security, draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the draft law on the approval of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Criminal Court on the execution of the International Criminal Court sentence. Before I ask if he wants the word of the proposing minister, Minister Snezana Malovic, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working after 1800 hours today, and by the end of the debate on the agenda points in the joint principle and uniform search, which have just been opened. The usual break will be at 1400 hours. Does the proposing representative, Minister Snezana Malovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53127	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this principle debate, I would like to make a few preliminary remarks on the proposals of the laws that we will discuss today, and whose adoption is very important, both due to the continued reform of the judiciary and the accession of the EU and the World Trade Organisation. These bill proposals were proposed by the Government with a proposal to consider and adopt an emergency procedure, and as a resolutely prepared by the Ministry of Justice. Three basic reasons for the adoption of the law on law of law. The first applicable Law on Lawyerry was passed in 1998, as SRJ law. Given that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has established law as an independent and independent service, which provides legal assistance to citizens and legal persons, it is necessary to pass a new law that would regulate this judicial profession in accordance with the constitutional principles and needs of a democratic and modern society that the Republic of Serbia is building. Another reason is to align the regulatory framework of the Republic of Serbia with international documents governing the area of law. The third reason is the process of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation, where one of the issues and liberalisation of the market in the domain of services is related to the provision of legal assistance, and therefore, in accordance with the requirements of the Member States of the World Trade Organisation, it is necessary to regulate the conditions for law enforcement in the Republic of Serbia for foreign citizens' lawyers in a more detailed manner. The work on drafting this law takes more than a year, and the working versions of the law have been published on the website of Serbia's Bar of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, so that all interested lawyers and other interested parties can make proposals and remarks, which the working group later considered. Also, a large number of round tables were held in the preparation of this text in all the area's legal chambers. I would also point out that the final text of the working version of the law drawn up by the Working Group was delivered to the Council of Bar Associations of Europe, the SSB, which gave a positive opinion on the compliance of the law with European standards relating to law. I would also point out that the following international sources and comparative legislation have been used in the drafting of the text of the law: the basic principle of the UN on the role of lawyers from 1990, the recommendations of the Council of Europe's Bar Association on providing lawyers with professional responsibility and education, the relevant recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, then, the EU Council Directive, the European Parliament's directive, used information on the necessary changes to legal legislation in line with the requirements of the member states of the World Trade Organisation, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Then, laws on Montenegro's lawyer, Macedonia, Croatia, Slovenia, Republika Srpska, France and Germany. According to the bill, the lawyer is defined as an independent and independent activity of providing legal assistance to natural and legal persons. The conditions for law enforcement include certain degrees of law school, passed judicial and legal exams, citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, as well as secured work space and other conditions. As a special paper in the law, it represents that an attorney's exam has been passed for enrolment. Also, newspapers are the conditions for enrolment of foreign citizens' lawyers. The law stipulates that a foreign citizen can be entered in the register of lawyers in the Republic of Serbia if he deals with law in the country of origin, in accordance with the rules of the country and if, depending on the type of registration, he meets other prescribed conditions. Such legal solutions, in a completely different way, lay down the conditions for law enforcement in the Republic of Serbia for foreign lawyers in relation to the applicable law, as the principle of reciprocity is abandoned and the precise law prescribes conditions for the exercise of foreign lawyers' lawyership, which is one of the basic requirements of the World Trade Organisation in the process of joining the Republic of Serbia in the service liberalisation work. The paper is a legal obligation by a lawyer to professionally perfect himself according to the professional training programme brought by Serbia's Bar Association. It is the right of a lawyer to decide whether to accept the provision of legal assistance unless, as an agent or counsel, it is appointed by a court, another state body or a bar. The law precisely regulates cases in which a lawyer is obliged to refuse to provide legal assistance, mainly because of conflicts of interest. The lawyer is obliged to keep as a professional secret everything the party has entrusted him with or in a case in which he otherwise learned or obtained in preparation during the termination of representation. The lawyer also has the right to receive compensation for his work in accordance with the bar fees. The lawyer of a foreign citizen cannot choose and cannot be elected as a member of the body and holder of the office in the Bar. He cannot hire legal interns and cannot be appointed as temporary representative, tax attorney or counsel under official duty, he cannot provide free legal assistance, nor be a proxies of a party who is exempt from paying court costs or cannot be a mediator. The legal paper is the authority of the Serbian Bar Association to prescribe the conditions to be met by the lawyer's office in terms of legal assistance equipment. In particular, the law lays down the right of a lawyer to request information, files and evidence in their possession or under their control for the purpose of providing legal assistance from state authorities and legal entities. The legal paper is the introduction of a lawyer's obligation to ensure professional responsibility. A lawyer's chamber may conclude a collective liability insurance contract for all lawyers listed in her lawyer's register. The act of Serbia's Bar Association determines a minimum amount of insurance for damage to professional responsibility. The draft law retains a valid legal solution and lays down as forms of legal work: self-employed law enforcement, a joint law firm and a law firm. Serbia's defence chamber and the bar in its composition are defined as an independent, independent and mandatory professional organisation of lawyers, established in accordance with the law and statute of the Serbian Bar of Lawyers, who are competent to exercise public authority and conduct other affairs in accordance with the law and statutes. The paper represents the legal arrangement of the attorney's office. The bill also accurately determines violations of duties and respects the law, disciplinary measures, organs and disciplinary procedure. The disciplinary process is being initiated and run by the disciplinary authorities of Serbia's Bar Association. The second-degree, or final decisions of the Serbian Bar Association may be brought before the administrative court, which provides judicial protection in relation to individual acts brought by legal chambers and for reasons of public authority. The law gives the opportunity to establish a lawyer's academy, in order to train and specialize lawyers, by the Serbian Bar Association. In addition, since the law, as a special condition for enrolment in the register of lawyers, is a certain legal exam, this exam is closer to being arranged. Under the proposal for a law on public records, I would point out that the introduction of this new judicial profession in the Republic of Serbia is another step in the implementation of the national justice reform strategy, adopted by the National Assembly. I would point out that public records were introduced in 1930 into the legal system of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, but this institution has never lived in the entire territory of Serbia, and has also been abolished since World War II, so, historically and legally, it cannot be established continuity with the public records set out in the proposal for this law. In view of the need for legal certainty and certainty in the conduct of legal transactions, certain transactions show that public-interest transactions are entrusted to a special service of public trust, the holder of which is a public notary, which is in accordance with Article 137. The constitution, according to which public powers can also be entrusted to individuals. I would also point out that the Republic of Serbia is the last country in the region that has not passed this law. The adoption of this law would transfer part of state affairs to the public-booking service, which would contribute to legal certainty in transport, as well as the discharge of courts and authorities of the administration and allow citizens and legal persons to exercise their rights more quickly and easily. In this way, the conditions for more effective court proceedings are met, because, by establishing public records, courts would be freed from cases that do not constitute a trial in the narrow sense of that word. Public notation, as a judicial profession, has its place in most European states and the fact that in our country the legal force of foreign public-booking acts is recognised as another reason for the institution of public records to be introduced into our legal system. Decisions in the proposed law are brought into line with the laws governing public notaries in European countries, in relation to the principle of Latin type notaries, and in terms of the competence of public notebooks, as well as the organisation and mandatory association of public notebooks in the chamber. Public records are defined as a service of public trust, and a public notary as an expert in the field of law appointed by the minister of justice, who exercises public authority entrusted with the law. The public notary shall be authorised to draw up, verify and issue public documents on legal matters, statements and facts on which rights are based and certify private documents, shall assume on the keeping of documents, money, securities of value and other items and, on the basis of law and by court decision, shall carry out the tasks which may be entrusted to it. The title of a public notary is incompatible with the exercise of law, of any other paid profession, or of functions, as well as with matters that do not conform to the reputation, independence, independence and public trust of a public notary. The law lays down three basic types of public-book documents, namely: public-book records, public-book records and public-book certificates. The number of public-book sites determines the minister of justice. The basic rule that one public-book place is designated for the area of one municipality or city, and as an additional criterion, a higher concentration of population and more intensive business is prescribed and in this case one public-book place is determined on every 25,000 inhabitants. The public register determines one official seat in which it is required to have a residence and take the public-book to the office. In order to preserve public confidence in the work of the public notary, the bill provides for a ban on business co-operation to be examined in order to ensure that the public notary is not to be connected, co-operated, or to use common business space with a lawyer or other natural or legal person, in order to carry out its work together. For the same reason, the public notary is forbidden to participate in the activities of political parties and to be a member of their bodies. In order to protect the parties, the responsibility of the public register for the damage caused to the third party in carrying out its work and compulsory professional liability insurance is prescribed. The provisions of the laws governing public-book records shall state legal transactions forming the form of a public-book record. These are, for example, property relations agreements between spouses, property relations agreements between non-marriage partners, agreements on the share of the joint assets of spouses or spouses and others. In addition to those legal transactions, other legal transactions which may have the form of a public-book record, such as contracts on the availability of immovable property or will, for example, are listed in the law. In addition, the law provides for the content and enforcement of public-book records. The provisions of the laws governing public-book records set out the documents which must have the form of a public-book record, for example: the minutes from the founding assembly and the other assembly of the company. Also, the law lays down the facts, actions and statements on which public-books are drawn up, as well as the contents of the public-book record. The law prescribes the duty and authority of a public notary to issue a public-book certificate. The public register is authorized to issue confirmation that a person in life is a person, a certificate of protest of the bill or waiting for other types of confirmation. The provisions of the laws governing public-book certificates require the authority of the public notary to verify the signatures of the non-public document, to verify non-public documents, to verify the copies of the document, and then to translate and decide the governing body of the legal person. The law lays down restrictions on the confidentiality of judicial matters with the public notary. The court shall not be able to entrust the public notary with the tasks for which the court has jurisdiction under the law governing the litigation of proceedings, other than the provision of evidence and of actions, the delivery of letters, as well as the cases for which the court has jurisdiction under the rules of the law governing the enforcement and security proceedings. In addition, the court cannot entrust the public record with the procedures for which it is responsible under the rules of the non-partisan procedure: the declaration of the missing person for the deceased and the proof of death, detention in the healthcare organisation and other matters provided for by the law. Where a court has entrusted the public notary with certain tasks outside those limits, the public register shall apply the rules of procedure entrusted to it. The court can entrust business to public notaries in its area of local jurisdiction, and also oversee the work of public notebooks in the procedures it has entrusted them with. Public notebooks have joined the public-book chamber. Also, the bill stipulates that the public notary has the right to award for its work and to compensate for the costs incurred in relation to the work done, in accordance with the public-book tariff, which the Minister of Justice brings to the Chamber's opinion. Agreements setting out a greater reward than those prescribed by a public-book tariff are prohibited. As one of the conditions for the conduct of the public notebook’s affairs, a public-recording exam has been set, which can pass a person who has completed a law school and has at least two years’ experience in legal affairs in a public-book office, court or a lawyer, or three years’ experience in other legal matters. A public-book examination shall be passed before the examination committee educated by the Ministry of Justice. In the part of the law governing a public-book deposit, it is prescribed that money, securities of value, other than serial and dematerialised, as well as other instruments which can be cashed, then documents which cannot be cashed, files, manuscripts, records, personal archives, documents, decorations, precious metals, jewels, valuables and other articles made of precious metal. Deposit items can be handed over to any public notary in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The items of the deposit shall be kept in a secure safe, warehouse or similar secured room. The transitional and final provisions of the bill lay down deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts, the determination of the number of seats and seats of public notebooks, the organisation of exams, the appointment and education of the public-book chamber, to be established when the first 100 public notebooks are appointed. It is predicted that the law starts to apply in the second half of the following year, in order to create all necessary normative, human and material conditions for its application. Finally, I would point out that the proposal for a Law on Public Registration has been prepared by the Department of Justice working group, led by Professor Dragor Hiber, and that comparative and legal solutions from France and Germany, as well as by countries with a long tradition in this area, as well as solutions from countries in the environment, which have recently established a public-book service. I would now move on to the presentation of a very important law, which is the proposal for a law on enforcement and security. There is a systemic problem in the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the execution of judicial decisions in civil matter. According to collected data, the average age of pending cases in the Republic of Serbia is 442 days and the average duration of the executive procedure is around 260 days. Unlike the Republic of Serbia, the average duration of the executive procedure is 60 days in EU countries. The indicator of ineffectiveness of the executive procedure in the Republic of Serbia is also the fact that, from 3,500 pre-deposits before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg 1034 plays a role in the procedure of enforcement, it should also be taken into account that in 14 judgments brought against the Republic of Serbia, which relate to violation of the right to a fair trial, i.e. violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period, that the Court has taken the view that the enforcement procedure is a continuation of the litigation procedure. In view of the length of the proceedings, the purpose of judicial protection is lost, since the parties, following the conduct of long-term litigation, after obtaining a judicial decision, cannot effectively execute that decision in the executive procedure. This violates the right of parties, both natural and legal persons, and creates a state of legal uncertainty, which is a major problem in achieving citizens' rights and also in attracting investments in the Republic of Serbia. In the case of the draft law, the purpose of the enforcement procedure was to force the judicial and executive judicial decision by the State if the executive debtor did not do so voluntarily within a specified time limit, as well as from an analysis of the existing legal solutions and their impact on practice. In view of this, the proposed text of the law contains new solutions relating to the jurisdiction of courts in the executive procedure, the system of legal medicines, the time limits for handling, sanctions for non-compliance with court decisions, more effective enforcement, as well as the conduct of a single register of executive debtors and court bans. In view of one of the biggest problems in the executive procedure – implementation of the enforcement process, the special paper contained in this text is the introduction of extrajudicial executions, which would take executive action to implement the enforcement decision adopted by the court. This profession exists in many countries where its existence has had a very positive impact on the efficiency of execution. The law stipulates that enforcement and security are determined by the court, and is carried out by a court or by an enforcer. The Court of Justice shall be solely responsible for the implementation of decisions relating to family relations and for the enforcement of the work of the worker. As a really competent court in the enforcement and security proceedings, a basic court, or economic court, has been designated in business matters. In the first degree, an individual judge conducts an executive procedure, and decisions in the second case are made by a larger court. The jurisdiction of the executing authority shall be determined by carrying out enforcement on the basis of a decision of the court for whose territory it is appointed. The principle of urgency of the executive procedure has been worked out through the court's obligation to decide on a proposal for enforcement within five working days. It has also been established that the general deadline for taking actions determined by the court cannot be longer than five working days and the party not acting within the legal period or time limit set by the court is losing the right to take action. As the basis for determining the execution, executive and credible documents have been designated. In addition, the special paper on executive documents is a solution whereby the executive document becomes enforceable when it becomes legal, so that it no longer needs to be supplied with a certificate of enforcement. It is also the way in which an executive debtor is delivered to the address of the legal person’s seat registered in the register, i.e. the address of the residence or residence of a natural person registered with the authority responsible for keeping records of ID cards. If the delivery cannot be carried out in this manner within five working days, the court shall be obliged to make a written statement to the court’s advertising board the following day after the expiry of this period, after which it shall be deemed to have been served in writing, except for the delivery of a solution based on a credible document. In addition, the law stipulates that the enforcement procedure does not allow the return to the former state of affairs and skills, the exemption of the court's enforcer and perpetrators, as well as the proposal to determine the second real court. The Judge's exemption is only possible until the expiry date for the decision to object to the enforcement decision. The law lays down that the legal remedy against the solution to the execution of the objection, which is decided by a larger court of the same court. In view of the effectiveness of the decision-making process, no new evidence is allowed to be proposed and new facts are presented after the expiry of the deadline for the complaint, the maintenance of the hearing and the response to the complaint have been reduced, and the reasons for the submission of the complaint have been reduced. Also, the objection does not delay the execution of the solution, and the court will photocopy the case files and deliver photocopies larger to decide by appeal. There are also fines for non-compliance with decisions and orders of the court or executioner. The fine shall be imposed in an increased amount if the person does not comply with the decisions of the court or within a new period, which shall be repeated until after the decision has been taken. The fine may be given to parties and other participants in the procedure, including the responsible person in the legal person and the state authority. In addition, a procedure for obtaining a property statement has been arranged. This statement may be sought by an executive trustee who has initiated proceedings before a competent court in the event of the debt of an executive in cash. The law prescribes the keeping of the book of executive debtors in court and prescribes a procedure for entering and deleting from the book, as well as the publication of the book of executive debtors. The paper in the law represents the establishment of a single register of persons enrolled in the book of executive debtors for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. The execution may be carried out by the court or by the executing authority. The bill sets out the police's obligations to assist in carrying out the execution and provides a fine for a responsible person in the police if the police do not provide assistance by order of the court or enforcement officer. It is also prescribed that the rights of the parties may be required by the court or perpetrators to remove irregularities in the execution, as well as the right to judicial protection in the event that irregularities are not removed. A court obligation has also been established to notify the Ministry of Justice and the Chamber of the perpetrators of irregularities in the work of the perpetrators. In the proposal for a law relating to the enforcement of movable matters, the authorising officer was given the authority to carry out an assessment of the value of the listed items and the assessment by the experts was deleted, as this led to a delay in the proceedings. With regard to the sale of things, it is prescribed that between the day of the census and the sale it can run for at least 15 days, and not more than 30 days. The law also provides for a precise procedure relating to the execution of immovable matters, the execution of earnings, the execution of the account of the executive debtor, the execution for the purpose of discharge and transfer of immovableity, the execution of family relations, the execution of workloads, etc. Also, the law regulates a special procedure for the settlement of claims on the basis of municipal services. In view of the large number of enforcement procedures for the settlement of claims based on municipal services conducted before courts in order to be effective in the execution of those claims, there was a need to prescribe a special procedure. The paper presents that the proposal to execute on the basis of a credible document in order to achieve a monetary claim on the basis of public services performed, such as the supply of water, thermal energy, waste of garbage and similar services, is submitted to the executioner whose area is the headquarters of the executive trustee. The competent executor shall draw a conclusion determining the execution. An appeal may be brought against the executioner’s conclusion to the competent court. In the part of the law relating to security, a procedure for determining previous and temporary measures has been arranged. The keeping of a court ban register is a newspaper that is introduced for the reasons of the publication of data on provisional measures issued. The register of court prohibitions shall constitute a public record containing data on temporary measures previously adopted, in the course of or after the end of the court proceedings prohibiting the alienation and burden of movable matters, immovable property or real rights to immovable property under the conditions laid down in the law. The register is a unique central electronic database containing all data entered in the register. For the purpose of keeping a register of court prohibitions, the Agency for Economic Registers shall be responsible, which shall conduct this procedure through the registrar. From the moment of entry into the register, third parties are considered to be familiar with the existence of a ban and no one can be called upon to know that the data entered here were not known. In the part of the law relating to the perpetrators, questions relating to the status of the perpetrator, the conditions for appointment, the incompatibility of other transactions with the tasks of the perpetrators, the determination of the number, and the procedure for the appointment of the perpetrators, the entry into service and the resolution have been settled. The law stipulates that the perpetrator exercises the public powers entrusted to him by this law, that he performs activity as an entrepreneur and as a member of a company, and that the perpetrators are appointed by a minister from the territory of the basic court and the area of commercial court. The number of perpetrators shall be determined by the Minister of Justice. One place of execution is determined, as a rule, for 25,000 inhabitants, by the fact that the minister, depending on the need or on a reasoned proposal from the Chamber, can also determine a number of perpetrators. The executioner's posts are filled in based on a public competition called by the minister of justice. Before entering into office, the Executive Director shall conclude an insurance contract for damages that he may cause to a third party by performing his duties and shall provide the office and equipment necessary to carry out the execution. The draft law provides for the education, jurisdiction and organisation of the Chamber of Executives, which is a professional association to which all perpetrators and deputies are associated entered in the directory. The bill precisely regulates the supervision of the work and the disciplinary responsibility of the perpetrator. The Ministry of Justice and the Chamber shall exercise control over the work of the perpetrator. The perpetrator is obliged to submit a report once a year on his business to the Ministry and the Chamber. Data from the annual report of the perpetrators shall be published on the website of the Ministry and the Chamber. The transitional and final provisions of the law set out questions relating to the handling of enforcement and security cases initiated under the earlier applicable law, deadlines for the selection of enforcers and deadlines for the education of the Chamber of Executives and the adoption of sublegal acts and the termination of the Implementing Procedure Act. The application of the law is scheduled to start within three months of the date of entry into force, except for provisions relating to the perpetrators, whose application begins after one year from the date of entry into force of the law. Finally, I would point out that the work on the draft law on enforcement and security takes about three years, that the text has been prepared by the Justice Ministry working group, supported by international organisations, and that this law has been led by public debate and that the opinion of the Council of Europe experts has been obtained. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions at the same time solves several of the problems present in this area. One of them is an insufficient number of employees at the Department of Criminal Penalty. In view of the fact that this law contains certain specific provisions relating to the employment relations of staff in the Administration, it is necessary to specify and comply with the provisions of other laws governing the working relations of civil servants and temporary staff and to create conditions for easier reception of new employees. In particular, it is meant to enable employees from other state authorities, above all from Serbia's MUP and military, who have already worked on the same or similar jobs, to be able to take over in the simplest possible way in the Administration. Also, an age limit has been raised for the admission of trainees to the Security Service, which has also been a major problem so far because of insufficient number of interested persons, as well as the fact that a large number of applicants reported did not meet the legal requirements for reception. In addition, provisions on professional examinations of staff in the Security Service are specified, as well as provisions on professional training of staff at the Administration. In this way, both quantitative and qualitative improvements in the structure of staff in the Administration are expected, which is necessary, given the many problems in this area, and above all, the overload of the accommodation facilities of the institutions, which makes it difficult to exercise the rights of convicted persons and endangers the security of the institutions. The second newspaper is to specify the current legal solutions relating to the execution of a prison sentence without leaving the room in which the convicted resides. In view of the years-long trend in the drastic increase in the number of persons deprived of freedoms in the Republic of Serbia, this creates the necessary regulatory framework so that such punishment can be effectively implemented and at the same time creates an opportunity for greater application in practice than is the case so far. This allows the majority of persons sentenced to prison for up to one year in the rooms in which the convicted live, of course, under the conditions provided for by the law. Also, the paper is a provision that is closer to regulating the application of electronic surveillance against the accused in criminal proceedings, when such a measure is decided by the court. This possibility has not been explicitly prescribed so far, and it was necessary to supplement the existing text of the law in that sense. Finally, I would like to point out that some of the provisions that have been a problem in practice so far have been amended, which relate to the period within which the disciplinary procedure is being initiated against the convicted person, the limitation of the conduct of such a disciplinary procedure, the provisions relating to the disciplinary procedure against the employees, and the possibility of rejecting the application for the postponement of the sentence in the infringement procedure. When it comes to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Criminal Court on the execution of the sentence of that court, I would firstly remind myself that in 2001 the Law on the Confirmation of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court was passed and that the National Assembly adopted the Law on Co-operation with that court. The proposed law is a further step towards the Republic of Serbia's determination to fully provide concrete support for the work of the court. In addition, this is another concrete indicator of the Republic of Serbia's determination that war crimes must be punishable, no matter where these acts are carried out. I would also point out that the Republic of Serbia signed an Agreement on the execution of the International Criminal Tribunal on 20 January 2011, as well as that the Republic of Serbia is currently the first state in the region and one of the first Member States to conclude such an agreement with the court. Finally, I would point out once again the importance of these legislative proposals for further judicial reform, thank you for the attention and voiced hope that after the debate in principle and in particular the proposed laws will be adopted, creating the necessary regulatory framework for the more effective work of the judiciary, as well as for the protection and exercise of the rights of citizens and legal persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53128	Before I ask if the representatives of the committees want the word, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the mandated representative of the PUPS parliamentary group is MP Đuro Peric. Do the committees want the word? National MP Bosko Ristic, Justice and Administration Committee? No, I don't. ) National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee, do you want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Laslo Varga, Chairman of the Committee on European Integration? National MP Lasslo Varga is an authorised representative, so he will get his word then, in a few minutes, but does not want to take part as president of the Committee on European Integration. Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The People's MP Lasslo Varga has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53129	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first of all like to welcome, on behalf of the SVM, the adoption of a new set of laws in the area of justice. In addition to political issues, foreign policy or co-operation issues with The Hague tribunal, justice reform is certainly the most important area for obtaining candidate status. For this reason, it is really important that we now pass the next set of laws in this area. I want to take this opportunity to express my regret again that the government has not yet had the strength to propose amendments and additions to those laws that regulate the network of judicial authorities. At this point, a review of judicial reform is being carried out, but only in one part, because there are a lot of signals that say that it will not or will not be enough without increasing the efficiency of the judiciary, and for the efficiency of the judiciary I am convinced that it is necessary and reorganising the network of courts. This network with judicial units is simply incompatible, i.e. incompatible with European standards. It is not difficult to check in the latest European Commission report. Unfortunately, there is obviously no political will at this time to open this issue. This means that the issue of restoring the properties or status of courts by a number of judicial units will, unfortunately, remain for the call of the next government of the Republic of Serbia. I am convinced that with this organization of judicial authorities, i.e. The courts and public prosecutors, Serbia will not be able to close the judiciary chapter, but that will happen, unfortunately, not in a near future. It is not good that the deadlines set by the national integration plan are not respected either. The plan or programme provides for all laws to comply with European standards by the end of 2012. At this point, it is approximately 80% of the fulfillment rate, and this will result in us not being able to meet this extremely important plan, or programme in the field of European integration by the end of 2012. The Law on Lawyerry is one of these laws, according to the national integration plan, it was foreseen that the government would adopt the law in the first quarter of 2010, and now we have broken that deadline for at least a year. Similarly, the public records law. The law was set until the end of 2010 to be adopted in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, that deadline is not respected either. That's what's causing the problem. Setting unreal deadlines simply leads to the loss of trust among the citizens themselves and, of course, to European institutions. Now I'd like to say a few words about the Law on Lawyerry. First of all, we welcome the way the law is passed, i.e. the way the bill is drawn up. That's where the law offices were actively involved in this process, which is extremely good. A large number of public debates, public hearings, one of them was held in the National Assembly, is a good practice or should be a good practice, and it is especially important for us from Vojvodina, which respects the largest number of demands or suggestions of the Vojvodina Bar Association of Lawyers. We hope that a large number of amendments will be adopted, and among those and the amendments practically made by the Vojvodina Bar Association, and some fellow MPs have submitted them. We consider unnecessary tensions to be created on one issue, which is the issue of the internal organisation of the Bar Association. There are some indications that there will be a willingness to hear the arguments of those who do not support this solution contained in the bill. It is certain that there are arguments for and arguments against, but I would like to invite my colleagues from the ruling coalition to show openness. I don't think this question is essential in that sense, that it can't be done or sent one message and the other side that disagrees with these solutions. As SVM MPs, we have submitted a total of 12 amendments to the law on law on law on law on public records and to the law on enforcement and security. We propose to these amendments, on the one hand, that tables and stamps of lawyers, public notebooks and executioners be multilingual in the environments with a significant minority population. We also suggest that, in the selection process, public notebooks and executioners are respected in Article 77. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the need to take care of the national composition of the population. This solution was adopted by the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, and it should not be an obstacle to including these laws. We propose that when drawing up public records, the party's right to choose or choose the language in which it wants to be drawn up is unambiguously established. I don't see a reason why in one place, in Canjiza, where the population of 90% speaks Hungarian, two public documents are drawn up parallelly, and I don't think there's any need for that, only in cases where a citizen wants to. Finally, with one amendment, we propose a single solution, which is to legally exclude the possibility that insurance companies by their own acts, some by their own internal acts, under some realistic measure reduce their responsibility for the damages resulting from the unprofessional work of lawyers. You will have the opportunity to study this amendment in detail. I think the profession will support that solution, because that solution exists in some other countries, where it works. In the end, I want to say something about one phenomenon that's only in a special way, but it's linked to the law on amendments to the law on the execution of criminal sanctions, this dramatic increase in the number of thefts in Vojvodina. As a party to Ms. Minister and to Mr. MUP, we have sent a letter where we have turned our attention to this problem, and where we are satisfied with the quick response of the Ministry of Justice, and also with the determined reaction of the Ministry of Justice, we are pleased with your willingness to consider and respect our arguments when they come to the agenda of amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. For the sake of the public, I would like to say that the most important proposal, namely to drastically reduce the censorship of 15,000 dinars, which at this point is the censorship in the sense that the procedure under official duty would be conducted because of the criminal act of petty theft, therefore, beneath that censorship, that this crime is being prosecuted against a private lawsuit. I think it's completely unrealistic in a country where the average pension is 22,000 dinars, and the average salary of 30,000 dinars, and it can't represent a small amount of 15,000 dinars. We don't think that's right. This legal solution has the effect that citizens are completely demoted to report such cases to the police, and it has been demoted to investigate them, because when it finds the perpetrator and then it does not open a criminal procedure, because there is no one to conduct the procedure, so I would like to urge you to consider our arguments again in due course and that the ministry does a detailed analysis and to prepare changes and additions to the Criminal Code. I've had opportunities from my colleagues to hear that these changes are planned somewhere for the end of the year, and we think it's too late. In many places, this phenomenon has led to the self-organization of citizens, which is extremely dangerous. Examples of some other countries where this was happening suggest that the state should not wait for a later moment, but must react immediately. When an incident of a crime occurs, and later because of some act of self-defense, it creates a chain reaction, and I'm sure no one would want it, and I don't think there's any reason for any of the next two, three or four months of preparation to change and supplement the Criminal Code in this sense. If no one would want to do so, that is, to some incident situations, it can create much greater obstacles on the way to European integration, rather than in the adoption of some laws in the field of justice that are not crucial. With this appeal, I would have finished my presentation in the hope that you would accept as many of our amendments as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53130	12 minutes and 15 seconds have been used for the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, today we have a set of draft laws that the government has proposed and certain that certain laws represent newspapers in Serbia's legal system and certain solutions are newspapers, but whether all the problems that were before the judicial authorities will be solved will be timed. What falls in about several years ago, we notice that many of the things that have been in the jurisdiction of the courts are slowly coming out of the jurisdiction of the courts. A few years ago, we had the establishment of an Agency for Business Registers, so we made a huge company, only in the Kingdom, that's 10 or 15 people, and somewhere two or three people in a commercial court were doing business registration. That's how we exempt one serious job from the courts, and now we see that we're introducing two new institutes. The law on executive proceedings introduces practically private perpetrators, and I find it unacceptable that part of the court procedure, the executive procedure, comes out of the jurisdiction of the courts, especially some solutions, and what I will say in further discussion, especially Article 336, will deliberately apostrophe this position, the solution is totally unacceptable. So – the contractor can hire or hire third parties who, on behalf of and for the account of the executioner, carry out individual actions in the execution of security. I ask the Government's representatives: what are the third parties, what is their qualification? If this private enforcer is a graduate lawyer, it is understood as we do with notaries, i.e. public notaries clearly envisioned views where they are said to be, that the deputies are the same from the work of graduate lawyers, and we can accept here that they can be even graduate economists or some other profession. Such a solution, New Serbia has submitted an amendment, it has to be defined, because such broad giving is a serious possibility that in our legal system, regardless of the solutions that I will continue to criticise, which I cannot agree with, and I put this on purpose at the beginning, it may have the introduction of such a situation in the executive process that I can freely say that I can fully legalise debt seekers, so to speak. That is what we have said by amendment and we appeal to the government and the minister to accept the New Serbia amendment, because here something has to change, because it raises total legality and something that will upset the citizens of Serbia, regardless of the debt-confidential relationship that this law wants to resolve. Of course, a year ago New Serbia proposed here, among other things, and I think that we all agreed together, and representatives of the government and representatives of the opposition, even the minister, that changing the executive procedure without regulating the Law on Judicial Taxes will not bring any improvement. Here we have to understand one thing, trusts in this country are completely unprotected. The trustee makes a huge effort to exercise his right in court proceedings, and when it comes to execution, it stops. New Serbia has suggested that perhaps, here, I am now correcting myself, apart from the initial act of pressing charges and mandatory fees, we believe that the decision and enforcement fee must be subject to the right. Then we will have an efficient system and if this is voted upon, that there are private perpetrators, the same must apply to them, because you will not force them to do their job if they are the part that charges the citizens, the trustee's fee, so neither will they be all-powerful. It seems to me that this represents, this introduction of a private enforcer, one infirmity of the state, or justice system, to carry out its obligation. I repeat, the execution procedure is part of a court case and it must remain within those frameworks. Much better was the solution than we had a few years ago, or suggested, in some working versions, the introduction of a possible judicial police force. Well, if we put the municipal police in charge of a serious job like this, it was better to bring in the court police and keep everything in the legal flows of state and court. No one is considering that a law like this will lead to the reduction of the number of executives in courts. People will be out of a job here, too, because it leaves a wide range of options under Article 336 of the private contractor to receive some third parties. We couldn't agree on that. We believe that there are entirely illogical solutions in article 30 of this law. In fact, when returning to the previous situation, etc., the institution of art is virtually unacceptable to be completely kicked out of the executive procedure. I know it's the proprietor's tendency to speed up the process, but there are just some things that are impossible to do without the previous ones reporting. Someone in that whole mile of stuff will be damaged, absolutely damaged. In Article 34, when it comes to the costs of the procedure, the Executive Trustee is obliged to take the costs of the procedure in accordance with the Law governing the costs of the procedure. Yes, but at the conclusion of the court. So someone has to channel and say what it is, and that's the court again. This is where New Serbia submitted the amendment and we expect that this practical technical and correction will be accepted for accuracy. Article 47 is completely unnecessary, because everything is described in Article 46, so it absolutely needs to be deleted. Of course, in public competition, at that particular moment when the sale of things was done, you have to leave some time of ten minutes, which is a completely normal thing. I only made a few remarks about things that are completely, in our opinion, unacceptable, so I don't owe it now, because in the debate on amendments we're going to talk about it in more detail, once again I'm just saying that the part that concerns private perpetrators, if it stays, should absolutely be specified in Article 336. Citizens have been exercising their rights for years. In the King alone, I have repeatedly cited, there are 20,000 items, five thousand cases. It is a huge job, but there were some things that needed to be introduced and easier to carry out and sure that this law would have full meaning. Here, I'll tell you specifically how I would, for example, do it when it comes to the executive procedure. If there are certain court rulings, let's say, for alimony payments, if in offenses who don't pay parking tickets can go, Madam Minister, to prison, one more rigid position should be introduced here, simply something that a debtor who doesn't respect the verdict, a judicial verdict, the same should be sanctioned in some way. If a citizen does not pay the court fee in time, he must pay 50% on notice. Was it a problem that, in some way, with some criminal policy in the executive procedure, the party was forced to carry out its obligation? Surely there are some things in some codes that protect debtors, but if we have a situation where society with limited liability, where the greatest abuses, where the biggest irregularities are, where, with a founding stake of 500 euros, practically someone from a society of limited liability cheats, cheats, cheats a lot of people, closes the firm, goes bankrupt. Well, he can't deal with any work anymore, and most of the time it happens to open up next to the company with another account and start working unhindered. Then we've got all kinds of problems and private contractors aren't gonna do anything about it. Simply the state will say, or the court - it is in the hands of the private perpetrator, the court has nothing to do with it anymore. No matter how much you, Madam Minister, have tomorrow's intelligence and certain postulate that you are somehow in control of these people, I don't think anything more important will be done here, except that this part will be excluded from court. I repeat, it was better for a court case, i.e. an execution procedure, which is part of a court case, to remain in court, and to resolve this problem with a judicial police institution. The second bill of law is the bill of law. Of course it was supposed to change him. Of course it had to be changed, some things haven't changed since 1998. I'm sure certain certain certain solutions belong to that branch, but no matter what, a man can't notice certain things that aren't entirely logical. It will absolutely not be clear to me that tomorrow the Constitutional Court or the President will sign something that is contrary to the Constitution, which primarily applies to those people who are not elected, to prevent them from being able to perform legal action for two years. I know it's like that in certain countries, I know it's some European standards, but everything you had on Saturday at the Sava Center, or I don't know where, I'm only informed about it, I'm asking a question -- what are these people going to live on for two years? Have you asked EU representatives? According to my information, that's where the state is behind their receipts, in part, those two years. I have nothing against this legal solution, that two years, after all, cannot be done, if there is any impact of abuse to be prevented, but these people must be provided with what they will live on. I also ask the question of what is the status of the unselected judges now, since the law will come into force? Are they in the status of elected judges, the ones not chosen, or not? If they're not, then they shouldn't be receiving any more personal income. So I'm asking what is the status right of these people? What's their current situation? I am sure that, among other things, this law will certainly help those who are quick to define what they want to do, because if this law comes into force, then two years will not apply. I think it's kind of a tendency for the legislator to get rid of these huge costs that the state has. Of course, I'm not saying that these people shouldn't, they should be receiving certain incomes, because they must be damaged. They will likely prove that many of them are unselected by some of the scrupulous interests, and there are many. I'm not entirely sure, and I don't fully understand whether this, apart from the judges, is in Article 6(10) or the public functions in the authority of the administration, whether this applies to the inspectors of the Ministry of the Interior or not? Does it apply? If it's relevant, then it's okay, because it's safe that there's a lot more abuse in law enforcement, if we're talking about privileges, because these people who are coming, the inspectors who come in line for the next period are the fastest, they know everything, they're detention lawyers, they're informed. They have certain connections, channels, and everyone who deals with law enforcement knows that there are also the most serious, most profitable jobs, and I'm sure they were privileged in some previous period. Introducing a lawyer's exam, after a legal trial, total nonsense. I don't think that's the way it's supposed to be. I forgot to say one more thing, if an unselected judge can't handle the affairs of law enforcement, I'm asking a question, and that is, after all, against my personal integrity and some colleagues who are in this House – was it necessary to introduce a rule that even a lawyer who ceases to work in office could not compete at the place of the judge? It's a specific question. There's a relationship. I speak not only on behalf of these judges, but I speak on this side, because there is a certain conflict of interest, but then the question arises – if we limit one and the other, we will bring the entire system into a paradoxical situation and we will deal with only some suspicion that someone is misusing something. Hence, and when we were picking judges and prosecutors, I cannot agree that prosecutors from other cities work in other cities, from Kraljevci to Kruševec, from another city in the Kingdom, in Čačka or Užica, from other cities, not only to collect expenses but also then, and now I have said, you are only dealing with certain suspicions that someone will abuse something. If a judicial officer wants to abuse, so much easier, Minister, believe me, he'll abuse it if he doesn't work in his town if he doesn't walk his own town. If he knows people, he has some responsibility in that town. If he goes to another city, there's less responsibility, no one knows him. She's a little more prone to it. That, among other things, I can never accept when there was an explanation, when we passed laws on judges, courts, etc. New Serbia has submitted a lot of amendments. I hope that certain amendments, which are certainly in the spirit of reforming the law, will be accepted. I only have enough time to point out something about the Public Note Act, since this law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Sanctions Act is practically just some precision of things. Another law that moves that piece of work around the office into some private frames. It's an institute known in the world, in Europe. For some first moment, I think it's an observation that maybe you should lower that threshold of 25 grand to 20,000 people. Maybe he needs a little more notes. There's a huge responsibility here. Everyone expects it to be one job that's going to be lucrative, people are training, they're taking certain courses, but there's so much responsibility, there's insurance and reinsurance, etc. I think it will be very dangerous for this institute to come to life in our terms. Maybe there should be a certain period of time to get people used to it, not to get into a situation where there are huge problems. Believe me, everything seen in that law indicates that this institute will not be so easy to relive in our judicial system. Since time is slowly running out, once again the finding: very quickly many laws are being drawn from the power of the courts, I said so at the beginning of the discussion. The question arises – what will the courts do besides those naked things, or trials? I think we're a society that's not fully matured for this many radical changes. We change a lot quickly, and as our people say, "which is fast, it's often short," but I hope, like all of us, that this will come to life, that it will be right. I think, especially in this executive procedure, when we introduce private contractors, I'm sure it won't be that easy and I think we'll have a lot of problems, but time will show how it's going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53132	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, an authorised representative of the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53133	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these five legislative proposals we are discussing today will have LDP support in the voting day, given that we believe these legal proposals are part of that reform process of justice that has been initiated, among other things, in this House. At the beginning, when we discussed that set of judicial laws, we said that we are aware of the problems facing the Serbian judiciary, we are aware of all the challenges to change this judiciary, we are aware of the difficulties facing this reform, and we are also aware that reform, above all, should be carried out by those who are also implementing the laws, above all by the competent ministry, so the executive body, as well as by the courts and prosecutors themselves. We from the opposition, one constructive, serious and responsible opposition, can only support all those legal proposals that go in the interests of Serbian citizens, and we believe that the laws that are related to judicial reform and that they are beneficial and in the interests of Serbian citizens, as well as in the interests of precisely these Euro-Atlantic integrations, which we talk so much about. When we talk about these laws that are on the agenda today, we need to see one concrete thing, which is that the promise has been kept that, in addition to a set of judicial laws that have been strictly tied to the work of the courts and prosecutors, they will come to order and some laws that can greatly speed up this reform process. Both the law on law on law enforcement and security, and the law on public records and the law on enforcement of criminal sanctions, all part of this process, and it is all a process that will largely dissipate the work of courts, largely to protect the legal order and to make it much easier for Serbian citizens to access justice and the work of courts. Therefore, taking into account all that I have said, we can only, in a positive sense, discuss these laws, normally, expecting that some of the solutions we have proposed through our amendments, which will significantly improve already proposed legislative solutions, be accepted and discussed during this parliamentary discussion, while we are talking about concrete laws. We have proposed certain changes in the draft law on law on law of law, which, above all, concerned the determination of attorneyship as a mandatory organisation, so besides being defined as independent and independent. Among other things, we have proposed to maintain the first-degree jurisdiction of the legal chambers of Serbia in terms of enrolment, erasing, cancellation and change of seats in all forms of work in law enforcement, and thus to provide a devolving fact of legal medicine and two-stage decision-making and when it comes to orthic law firms, in order to avoid the classification of these companies in the APR regime, and to manage a single directory in the Serbian Bar. The amendments we have proposed also concern the prevention and establishment of new legal chambers without the consent of the highest authority of the chamber, whose area of jurisdiction would be affected by the area of jurisdiction of the newly established chamber. It is also necessary to establish stricter criteria for the confiscation of public authority and to explicitly prescribe the temporaryity of that measure. We cannot ignore the fact that, under certain conditions, legal chambers within the Law Chamber of Serbia allow the establishment of a law school, the professional training of lawyers who now have an obligation to continue to perfect after completing the law school and pass judicial exams, and that they continue to be perfected, and it is the law academy that will enable them to do so. The lawyer itself, as I have already said, is an independent, independent act, and is a lawyer and binding. Without such an attorneyate, we do not really have the opportunity to fully protect the rights of citizens in courts, in front of prosecutors, in front of internal affairs authorities. So, the lawyership is a citizen's defense towards a state which is of importance and really forms an integral part of the judicial system and legal order, and without good and without strong law, we will never reach that level and that standard of protection of citizens who are expected of us if we seriously intend to join the EU. The law on enforcement and security is also a very important law in the reform process. We were expecting perhaps more revolutionary solutions, perhaps some solutions that would significantly shorten this procedure from the time of the lawsuit, to the realization of that court ruling, so until the trial itself was brought to an end. We expected that these two proceedings, both litigative and executive, might be brought together in the light of the simple continuation of the litigation procedure in the executive, without the removal of the barrier, which arises after the justice of the court decision, so, without separation, the strict separation of the litigation procedure, because perhaps the most comprehensive solution would be that the judge, or the court council, which tried in the first degree, simply proceeded to this procedure and in the execution procedure, so the execution would be in the jurisdiction of the first-degreed judicial court and thus would achieve a much more effective way of working and in the execution. We believe that this would be an extremely comprehensive solution and to a significant extent would increase the effectiveness of all the work of the courts, because the judge, who has made the decision which has become legal, knows very well how this decision has been conceived, how he predicted that this decision would be possible and to what extent it can be realised by a simple statement by the litigator, or the prosecutor, and now the trustee, whether it agrees with the enforcement of this legal decision, we would simply achieve, in fact, only one continuity and continuation of that judicial procedure, without undue delay and unnecessary whole and unnecessary procedures for the specific decision-making process, which would be an integral part of that judicial executive decision. Normally, we also support the establishment of the perpetrator, i.e. the removal of the executioner in certain proceedings under the jurisdiction of the courts. We believe that this is a good solution and that it will significantly dissipate the work of the courts. We only think that it is necessary, given that this is a new solution in our legal system, to strengthen the control mechanisms of the work of these perpetrators, so that we do not compromise this good solution and that good intention to speed up the enforcement process. It is necessary to speed up the process and it is necessary to raise efficiency, but we must in no way ignore quality as an integral part of this process and we must not ignore the possibility of abuse and possible corruption, because we must in any way disable it, even in indications, even under suspicion. As far as the law on notification is concerned, it is a brand-new institution in Serbian legislation. We don't count on that 1930 law that didn't live in the whole territory of Serbia. However, he did live in the territory of Vojvodina and he did give good results and only the notary system, i.e. the notary system, gives excellent results in parallel law in other EU countries, which have this notary system and that public notary, also significantly relieves the work of courts and significantly speeds up certain procedures that are of great importance to citizens. Just come from the assumption of any document, any contract, how many obstacles and how much time wasted each citizen faces when he shows up in court and when he sees these huge lines that he has to wait for to get to the most ordinary copy of any act, the documents. Since the beginning of when we have talked about the reform of the judiciary and in terms of reducing the number of judicial units and in terms of the new network of courts of importance and that in time it will give good results, it is now only confirmed, because if we discharge the courts to a significant extent, in this way we are only giving space to the courts to really deal with the work that needs to be done, which is to share justice, and that all other jobs that have and how they have made it difficult and delayed the work of the courts are now done by the courts, through certain institutions that will only speed it up and simplify it. These are all good solutions. However, these good solutions can be much better. So today we will discuss in principle, and in what day we will speak in detail. Any proposal that comes from the opposition and which aims to improve the legal solutions set out in these proposals I think must be seriously considered, because among MPs there are quite a number of lawyers, quite a number of lawyers who understand their work and know how difficult it is to apply certain legal solutions in practice, unless they are realistic, or if they do not have that goal that every law should have, and that is primarily to rationalise the legal system and to rationalise access to justice to the most ordinary citizen of Serbia. Therefore, even when we talk about the law on law on law on law on law enforcement and when we talk about notebooks, when we talk about law on enforcement, they all have a common goal, which is to simplify the whole procedure, as far as court proceedings are concerned, discharging courts, shortening that procedure from the beginning of the action, until the end of the proceedings. The last goal is legal certainty and the preservation of the legal order. Therefore, expectations are high. Desires are obvious. However, it would be good if all these expectations and all these wishes were not just blank letters on paper, but that these laws were actually implemented and that they were to give the expected results. If we remain only at the declarative level, then we cannot expect results in judicial reform, nor can we expect reforms of these individual legal solutions, or these individual laws. Both the lawyers and the execution and the public register are too serious issues, too serious institutions to play with them and anyone to make the same just the most ordinary political story and political marketing.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53134	15 minutes and 40 seconds have been used for the mandated representatives of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Nikola Novakovic, an authorised representative of the URS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, members of the Government, I won't hold your attention very long to the laws that are too serious and too important for such a short time that I might otherwise be able to use as a whole, and then I'll be shorter, but I'll try not to praise much but to make certain remarks that the U.S.S.A. considers important. I'll take the reverse order. So the legal certainty of one system, one state and one country is seen precisely in the efficiency of the judiciary. The crown of all this is the law of execution, therefore, executive procedure. The speed of implementation of this exercise is essentially realized and the rights that every citizen considers to have been injured. At the same time, the enforcement procedure in the Serbian judiciary is cancer, greater than the one called the length of the court proceedings. Because this is also part of this process that takes even more time, and the outcome, efficiency and results are never good enough. Some feeling tells me that this law is going to be somewhat improved, but not as much as it might take, it's going to work, and as much as I'd hoped and expected. I've read too few norms in certain parts and instead of radically shortening all possible deadlines and difficulties, we've re-entered the story of an extension of the litigation process, only now we call it executive. Of course, some new institutes will help make it far better and more efficient, but will it be enough? Let's hope, let's be positive, give it a chance for private contractors. But I can tell you right now that part of the delivery story will stop us, the brakes, even though we tried to speed up. Simply put, that everyone understands me, the executive procedure is being initiated for some settlement, for some act, for some service, etc. So, the debtor has absolutely the right to say – I did, I paid or I did not pay and I did not pay, which he does not have the right to say because there is already an executive procedure in progress. Therefore – paid, the executive procedure is suspended. Or – he did not pay, the executive procedure continues and ends. Maybe, let's think about it that way, the performer as one of the most active function carriers in the executive process itself – it would also be worth that part of the story called execution, instead of these five plus five days, instead of the big problems that will be created in court on that so-called. I know what it was like in Novi Sad, but after a week, you can't see what's going on with all the paper – that technical help, speed it up in any other way. All this rest isn't bad. Some institutes are even returned and that's good. I think this law should be given that opportunity, but I keep following it in its execution and execution, so maybe we can speed it up a little bit. So, let's bring him down to that -- he paid-didn't pay. That's the answer for everything. We're the last ones in Europe, here's the proposal for a public record bill ahead of us, so when we're last, we could wait a little longer and pack it up a little bit better. Because something that causes anxiety and coldness is that we haven't learned anything from other people's experiences. Now I've got one scare and a chill. I'm afraid the first table, and we gave it exactly the name, the first hundred public notebooks in a very short time, of all things that don't end up in prison. It's a case of Slovenia. We already had that, and we could see that. In fact, I don't know why it seems to me, I may not have gotten enough into the matter itself, but a much more exact limit to law enforcement, on the one hand, and to the court, on the other hand, they had to be set up. So, without discretion, without trust, but strictly in the law stated – the notary does it, that, that, and how it does it and the point. Let's give that law a chance, too. Let's follow it. I hope that everyone who is interested today is following this debate because it is useful for them, so everyone who is interested in getting into the notary or public-book business one day, let's not forget that we had this law, that it was worth ten years and that it only applied to the territory of Vojvodina. So that's where he found some fertile soil, there wasn't any in all of Yugoslavia. Very indicative and unusual. The lawyer finally self-regulatory. Here's a chance to praise something, where there are the least bad solutions, which seems to me to be good all the solutions proposed in this proposal that are ahead of us. They're good for the simple reason that the task force that came up with this law formed a lawyer. So, the lawyer's self-regulatory finally. It's a good thing the lawyers also realized that education is a permanent obligation, that once a judicial exam is not someone's belief, it has to be renewed. I'll never forget one of my principles that stayed at the office for an hour or two every night and read something, and we interns were wondering where they brought this one, so this one doesn't know anything, he's always learning something, so that when I opened my office, I stayed for three hours and read etc. So, I'm not sure that's what my colleagues did. Also, I'm not sure that the code of legal ethics that exists, which is very good and will essentially be one of the key subjects of the future law school, so I'm not sure, which I'm pretty sure that a very small number of lawyers have read, and an even smaller number of things he's learned from it, he memorized it, and even a smaller number is applying it. It's going to change, so we're going to have this nice education and those nice relationships that used to be back on stage and set up a completely different atmosphere in law, in court and in the judiciary in general. All of this suggests that the chapter regarding the judiciary is obviously the chapter that may be the most complicated and difficult. On this occasion, I have to express my admiration to the minister in firm attitudes, on a good path, but we keep doing something, we keep doing something, we have to stop for once, wait for that color to dry off, see if we hit it or not. Unfortunately, the transition to the judiciary is the most intense prospect of seeing, so we always have to supplement and change something. Whatever. It may be heresy, but it is returning slowly to quality, returning to some fundamental foundation of justice that disappeared in the early 1990s, with total devastation and collapse, and whose basic sign and symbol was the abolition of the Supreme Court of Vojvodina. Today is a much better situation. It's hard, because people's heads are constantly the same message -- let's change so everything else is the same, we're weak and we're hard to change. Perceptions cloud our image, so we don't even know how much we know. A long way has passed Serbian law -- from cadium, from Budzakli's lawyers during the books, to the law that this modern law is trying to introduce today, and I am sure that the largest number of lawyers present and future, with great enthusiasm, are receiving these new solutions, and it is certain that, in the application of these solutions as a consequence, they will have a better, far better quality of work in the judiciary as a whole. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53136	Eleven minutes have been spent using the time of an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Miroslav Petkovic, the authorised representative of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53137	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Malovic, it is really not clear to us from the Democratic Party of Serbia why we are doing this today and that coffee you drink in variant three to one, and we are discussing five very important laws at one point today. It's three brand-new laws: law on law enforcement, enforcement and security and public records. So it's not a change and a supplement. To say the least, I think it's rude for thousands of people to be serving millions of people in this country to talk for just a few minutes, but that's the choice of the ruling majority that united these points. You said at the beginning of your presentation today that these laws in continuity are a continuation of judicial reform, that they are necessary for the purpose of joining the European Union, membership in the World Trade Organisation. Some lawyers in Serbia told us in the previous period that this bill is legally illiterate, that the law enforces the discipline of lawyers, that this was not even happening in Broz's time, that this is the highlight of the Serbian judiciary hypocrisis, that the law is not a prerequisite for the World Trade Organisation, that EU lawyers have been prevented from handling law in Serbia for three years. There's a lot more they've told us, which isn't for this tall home. We at the DSS know that law is certainly part of the justice system, but that doesn't mean it's part of the state's apparatus. We believe that if we want to develop Serbian law, we need to open up competition, so that everyone has an equal chance of dealing with it. I don't know if you've paid attention to Article 67. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly states that legal aid is provided by lawyers, as independent and independent public aid services established in local self-government units, in accordance with the law. I don't see that law is defined as a service, but as an act of action. With this bill of law on law on law, I think that independence and independence of law is at stake, because when the law provides for law enforcement authorities, their jurisdiction, the way of elections, the duration of the term of office, I think the state has become too involved in an independent and independent profession, as predicted by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. With such a proposal for a law on law of law, you introduce restrictions and inability to enrol in the register of lawyers over a period of at least two years from the termination of a judicial office or public office in the authority of the administration. I am curious – how will this reflect hundreds of judges and prosecutors who have not been elected to a brilliant, excellent judicial reform? What's going to happen to them? Have you thought about saying lawyers can, without that two-year-old break, be elected judges? After all, you too, when your mandate ends, for two years you will not be able to practice law if you wish to do so, because you are performing a public office in the authority of the administration. We believe that here we should have given much greater authority to the bar that will determine the conditions for the entry of lawyers. In Article 14. The bill, which regulates the registration of foreign citizens' lawyers, you provided that it is mandatory for foreign citizens to pass a judicial and legal examination. We don't really see the need for a foreign citizen, that an English lawyer in Britain must pass a judicial exam in Serbia to do this job here. I don't know why the principle of mutuality is abolished. Through our amendment, we have foreseen the principle of reciprocity, regardless of whether it says so, I do not know which European Commission and whether it is a condition for joining the World Trade Organisation, because we believe that if an Englishman in Belgrade can, then the Serb in London should do the same. Therefore, we believe he should remain a lawyer's exam. Of course, foreign citizens must know both the code and the statutes and the law of this country, but we believe that a judicial exam should be abolished. We also believe that it is necessary to prescribe the necessary round of transactions that are incompatible with the reputation of law enforcement, and to transfer more jurisdiction precisely to the bar, that is to say, their statutes and the code to which they will define it precisely. Article 35 discusses the deprivation of the freedom of lawyers and the search of the law firm. It provides that only the competent court, with regard to a particular file, case or document, may determine the examination of the lawyer's office. Mrs. Malovic, we know that the time in this government is going backwards, but we will agree to live in the 21st century. Why didn't the law predict the existence of electronic documents? I remind you that all the records can be on DVD, on an external hard drive, on a laptop that can hold a lawyer in his car, on a flash drive. I talked to the lawyer who said-- the whole office is here, it's in my pocket. Please consider the DSS proposal and adopt this amendment as well. Explain to us the provisions, you didn't precisely define this in the morning, the obligation of a lawyer to conclude a mandatory insurance contract. We really think there's an insurance agreement, but you're predicting a duty for every lawyer, if I understand that correctly. Have you made any projections as to how much a premium for what a secure case will be? Is that 200, 300 euros a month? Is that 200, 300 euros a year, depending on the value of the items and everything else? It is not the same if a lawyer in Lebanon will be able to separate 300 euros and will be able to do so by the one who has an office in Terrace. Of course, it will be determined by insurance companies, but will this obligation for lawyers affect the increase of the barrister's tariff, will this directly affect citizens' payment opportunities and access to justice? We in our amendment predicted that the Bar Association could conclude a collective insurance agreement. I know, counterpart Novakovic just said that every principle lies in bed and thinks – that not one of my associates, colleagues or trainees has made a problem for which he will have to pay large fines. But let us, in these conditions, allow people to collectively conclude an insurance contract, not to be required for every lawyer. In Article 38, which is once again a confirmation that this matter has been exaggerated, you predict that the lawyer is obliged to make income on the basis of the performance of the legal activity of the tax pay in accordance with the tax rules. Of course the lawyers will pay taxes, but I think it's regulated by some other regulations, by the financial laws of this country. Please, Article 47, which is very important, what have we proposed for the law firm and the company, because I really want to believe that no one wants to prevent the development of Serbian law enforcement from staying weak and devoid of temptations and challenges, but why should only foreign offices in Serbia be able to engage in big jobs? Do you know, Mrs. Malovic, who was engaged by the state in a shameful sale of Telecom? It's definitely not homework. There are 13 or 14 law offices in this country, and is their business fully regulated by law? It's not. Did they have a tall scale to jump over? Yes, but they go round, they go around that and that's a fact, and it's seen in everyday practice. We don't understand why the law interferes with defining the authorities of the chamber, the way of the election and the duration of the mandate? You have foreseen in this law that the electoral assembly is the authority of the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers. We have the first vice president, then the second vice president of the Chamber, so where's the presidency and why didn't you see it? Did you really want to violate article 67? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? The best thing to do is to process the minimum number of organs, and to leave the Attorney's chamber with the possibility that it will prescribe how long the mandate will take, how many times a year they will meet and how they will edit their work. It is then the first prerequisite for independence and independence of the law profession in this country. As far as disciplinary responsibility is concerned, in Article 75(2), you really foresee that lawyers and legal interns are discriminatoryly accountable for the ease and severity of violations of duty and the reputation of the lawyers who are governed by the statutes of the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers. Why do you keep counting, how is this precise? The bar of law should determine the reasons for the violation of duty. You're even listed, asking for a fee greater than the fee prescribed by the tariff. You'd better specify, asking for a fee less than prescribed by the bar, because the one who charges more, of course nobody will go to him, but will go and pay the lawyer's favor as much as planned. The problem is, if there is unfair competition, someone charges less and thus attracts clients into their office. Indeed, I do not understand, in the position of the 3rd member, the refusal and issuing of an account to the party for the amount of the prize or compensation received. Is this the introduction to the fiscalization of lawyers? It's not a bill. It's an account. What kind of bill would he give him? I think this needs to be precise and you have a chance to discuss it in detail and solve it. As for Article 83, I don't think it's possible for me to stay on it because of the weather, but it's completely unclear to stop law enforcement, because even if it was written in Chinese, I think it would be more understandable, but we're going to use that to discuss in particular. Really, it's hard to talk this way when there's very little time, but we'll try to touch it. The next law on enforcement and security, we believe, is contradictory in many of its solutions, above all, does not solve the big problem of long and inefficient enforcement of judicial decisions. It is this slowness that is also the biggest observation of both domestic and foreign companies and makes their business and legal security very difficult and everything that serious people need to invest in this country. It is known that our system is subject to a rule that it protects debtors, not creditors. It's inadmissible and it has to change. The law did not find an adequate answer for these criticisms, and as a rescue solution in the law, private perpetrators are offered. Indeed, it is totally unacceptable for us from the DSS to transfer individual powers to private perpetrators. The state and the court cannot give up certain responsibilities to achieve speed. You have an example here in article 325. The law on enforcement, where a private contractor can act on a proposal to execute, on the basis of a credible document, and in order to achieve a monetary claim, on the basis of the public services performed, as well as to collect data on the property status of the debtor. It will come to mind that the director of the municipal company separates funds, pays the first private executioner, and he will find cracked associates to push out debts to debtors. It is not possible to talk about speeding up the process, because in the current law that deadline was three days in the process, and now a five-day deadline is being introduced. I'm asking you, what happens if in those five working days it hits the weekend, because it extends immediately to seven days, if it's a state holiday or a religious holiday. Is that how we speed up or slow down the process? And that's what we suggested, so please consider and change that. Also, the question that counterpart Novakovic explained nicely, and it is related to the delivery of letters at all, because this problem is not solved, and this is the chronic problem of our judiciary, avoiding the receipt of letters, delaying the whole process, and in some cases even prevents its launch. The DSS has proposed an amendment that completely solves this problem and I think it's really the right solution. As far as public records law is concerned, it is obvious that this law does not regulate public records as a free profession that gives certain opportunities to public notebooks in everyday practice and distinguishes this activity from other professions. The function of the notebook implies public trust, its impartiality, its independence and the notaries are not civil servants, but they perform the service as a free call, which gives them much greater freedom of action and work. They have public trust status in them dominated by the definition of protecting the public order. The code of conduct is not brought by the state, but rather by professional associations, or notary chambers. Legal transactions and declarations drawn up in the form of a public-book record shall have the same evidence as those made up in court or in front of other state bodies. This is certainly a necessary law, it is necessary to enter our legal system, and you mentioned that the first outlines of this notary system were created in the Kingdom of Serbia in 1930, but I am sure the minister did not have this kind of authority. You determine the number of public-book sites, you determine their working time, you appoint them, you appoint a committee to pass a public-book exam and a commission to appoint the first notebooks. Is that normal and they're left with some kind of freedom? You, before forming a public-booking chamber, name the first hundred notebooks. A few months ago, we recently passed a law that also introduced a judicial academy, and why is this law not intended for a public-book academy? Is there a reason for checking and experienced personnel to be pushed through in the first wave, read – similar personnel, while putting as many obstacles as possible to some young and professional people to do this job? Indeed, Mrs Malovic, the proposed laws are necessary, but they are not good. The Democratic Party of Serbia has tabled 53 amendments to these three laws. I invite you, and you as Minister, as a proposing committee and committee of directors, to consider these amendments, because your colleague Novakovic said, we have painted for nothing, even in yellow, unless these laws are amended by amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53138	It was used for 15 minutes and 15 seconds by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives report to exercise their right in this part of the session? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53139	Ladies and gentlemen, the four laws in the Assembly and in its procedure represent system laws. These are laws that need to regulate a number of issues in legal traffic, in the exercise of the rights of our citizens, especially when it comes to the rights of protection of fundamental and human rights, which guarantees the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and which guarantee, above all, the international rules with which Serbia and the previous Yugoslavia have concluded ratified contracts. It's a little time to talk about these four laws in 20 minutes as an introduction. It is few MP groups for five days to discuss only in principle these four laws. It's a big mistake that there's been a merger of these four laws to one point. I'd like to refer first to the law on law of law. The first law on legal deputies was passed back in 1862, so that the same law would later be amended and passed as legal rules by the Association of Public Lawmakers in 1886. The law on the lawyers of the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians provides for the existence of a legal chamber and in this law the provision of Chapter 5 provides for a regulation for the work of the bar, and in particular its provisions in Article 38, which also speak of enrolment, disciplinary responsibility and competent authorities in the bar. Then comes the adoption of a new law in 1929. Then, the 1946 law that was passed – "Official Journal 102" from 1946. Then there were amendments and additions and better texts of the law in 1957. Then, a new Law on Lawyerry was passed in 1970. The new Law on Lawyerry was passed in 1971. Then a more complete and better 1998 Law on Lawyerry is passed. The justice system is also the Law on Lawyerry, which is one of the most serious laws to which special attention should be paid. A team that has not experienced more than 40 years of deeper, more radical changes, because all that has been done so far represents meaningless changes in the area of law enforcement, as one of the branches of the judicial system. For these reasons, this law should contain as an obligation for the Serbian Parliament to be radically changed this time according to the needs of Serbia's judiciary and to comply with its rules under EU rules. In this regard, it should be said in particular that such a bill has not been met and will not meet the proposals. With regard to the harmonisation of this law with EU regulations and regulations of the laws of the cultural states in the world, with the development of the legal system, I must openly say that no account has been taken of this law. It is sufficiently noteworthy that when this bill was drawn up, none of the countries of continental law, although it is claimed, in the light of the proposal, that such legislation was done in its making, were consulted directly. As regards the compliance of this bill with the needs of citizens and legal persons of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. on keeping an account of the interests of the protection of their rights and interests in accordance with the Constitution, the need for today's Serbia and its citizens is also not nearly achieved, although in this respect it is claimed that it is a modern, complete and adequate law. The best remarks I will make, both in terms of the principle of the proposal and in particular the law and in particular in detail, are presented, which will also allow the SRS MPs to make their remarks for a short time. In particular, I would like to point out that this bill was directly and directly implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or by the Resort Ministry, by the members of the committee appointed not so prescribed but, we can freely say, under the discretionary law of the Ministry of Justice. In particular, it should be pointed out that representatives and Serbian lawyers were appointed directly by whether the ministry or the narrow circle of people, and not adequately delegated from Serbia's legal order, or its chambers, as was the rule so far. For these reasons, the Belgrade Bar Assembly assessed the bill's work draft as unacceptable. However, Belgrade's Bar of Lawyers did not highlight objections to this bill, so the question arises why did they ask it later, rather than at the time it was in the draft? No wonder there was a law that experienced a fiasco in public, both in general and in the professional public, and especially from lawyers across Serbia. Such a bill can only be corrected by the adoption of the proposed amendments, so please, Madam Minister, pay attention to the amendments and do not hesitate to accept the amendments tabled by the SRS, as there will be an improvement in the text. I would like to point out in particular that the lawyership is a constitutional category, that the lawyer has found her place in the legal system, and above all in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the provisions of Article 67. However, when it comes to lawyering, it is not an offense for the state to settle the area, as is regulated in other countries. But law is an independent service, and it's not a lawyer's act. She's according to the Constitution public service. The involvement of the state and politics, including the solution proposed in relation to the establishment of basic chambers by the Serbian Chamber, or directly by law, is unconstitutional and unacceptable. Such a solution cannot survive, which is why we were forced to submit a large number of amendments to clear the bill of so-called law. virus and non-constitutional provisions. As for other provisions of the bill, especially those relating to the establishment of foreign law offices, this is a major problem, and foreign law firms in Serbia. It should be openly said that it is an attempt by the authorities to destroy the grounds on which the lawyer is resting in Serbia, i.e. To make it impossible for a lawyer to be a sovereign holder of legal action and turn him into a servant of foreign law firms and offices. This shall be served in particular by the provisions of Article 13(4) and Article 13(1). 14, 25 and 26. It's a bill of law. Therefore, it is obvious that the proposal that Serbian lawyers should be placed directly in the service of foreign law firms, which is why rules on the work of foreign law offices, which are now illegally even operating in Serbia's territory, are laid down not only by citizens and lawyers, but also by the authorities of the chamber and the justice ministry. Nothing has been done in that direction, nor has it done to prevent this rampage, the operation of foreign lawyers in Serbia, if any, past the law and beyond the bilateral agreement. In particular, the proposed provisions on the provision of compulsory insurance against the responsibility of lawyers, whose height the state could not bear under these circumstances and conditions, and let alone some lawyers who barely put an end to the end and whose state, on the basis of official defences, owes large sums of millions. Ladies and gentlemen, it should finally be said and pointed out the current government's open intention to allow foreign lawyers in Serbia, through such a proposal of law, to perform in an unconstitutional way, without any obligation of their states to enable our lawyers, based on reciprocity or on reciprocity, to practice law in their countries. Why is our country doing this? This law in the area goes directly against Serbia's independent law enforcement service. In the current conditions and circumstances of the exercise of legal action, and particularly the intolerances of Belgrade's Bar Association of Lawyers under the powers of the Law Chamber of Serbia, which has been coerced by attempts to seduce the monopoly by the Belgrade Bar Association of Lawyers, to abolish Belgrade's attorney chamber of public powers under the law of oversight, to prevent the monopoly of individuals who would have wanted to manage the chamber for years without personal changes and to decide for themselves on behalf of 3,500 lawyers in Belgrade, which the Bar of Lawyers did not allow by using their rights and their obligations under the Law on Law on Law of Law of Law, based on the Constitution. This proves, in particular, that the new leadership of Belgrade's Bar Association continued with earlier practice of running the same chamber by turning the authorities of the chamber as direct perpetrators of their rights and the obligation of lawyers to the blind executives of the leadership order of the chamber. That is why the legislator is obliged, with the proposed amendments and the adoption of those amendments, to prevent further collapse of the reputation of Serbia's lawyership and the achievement of its constitutional role, so that these conditions are ensured by the legislator of the free establishment of basic legal chambers by lawyers, so that, as in all countries, it looks like in Europe, and especially in the former republics of the SFRY. Given the current situation in Serbia's lawyerry, where there have also been physical attacks on those who think differently in line with Serbia, there has recently been a physical attack in the Chamber of Belgrade on prominent professors and lawyers of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, which depicts the state of Belgrade's lawyer, which the legislator should deal with by law and allow honest and fair lawyers to carry out their actions uninterruptedly, in accordance with the constitution. Against those individuals who violate the reputation and threaten Serbia's lawyership to perform its post under the Constitution, the authorities of the Bar Association must, because they have the right and obligation to do so in accordance with their powers, under official duty to initiate a disciplinary procedure, to initiate the procedure and to stay away from law. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to barrage, I have studied the provisions of parallel law, so I will only remind you that in the 1946 law, which is in accordance with the law of the Kingdom of the former Yugoslavia, Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, those who are exercised powers, judges, prosecutors, commissioners and officials cannot deal with a lawyer in their place for five years. I have the knowledge that he's trying to remove the 10th term amendments, so that some who are currently unselected, who receive salaries, can now walk into the bar in those places where they worked as judges or as prosecutors. I think it's incompatible and it's a place, and it's the ground where corruption is going to develop, because whoever was performing a judicial function in a place where European regulations don't even allow five years, not two of them, as proposed in this law. So, the lawyer has to clean his ranks. Legal law must make order and must prevent what has brought negative points and has had a negative impact on the judiciary, that law must regulate order, work and peace, and thus preserve law and its reputation. Lawyership isn't a stepdaughter. The lawyers in the countries of Anglo-Saxon law and continental law recruit 90% of them, the profession is chosen by the holders of judicial functions. In Serbia, however, that is not the case. Lawyers in Serbia, when it comes to selecting the holders of judicial functions, someone is proposed and elected here and there, but it must be interrupted with the practice and the law, which makes up the branch of law, must be respected, but lawyers must be given over their chambers to raise the reputation of the lawyer to a higher level. In law offices, they have to prevent groups that want to stay in office for 20 years and in chairs without lawyers being able to resolve such people, because from day to day they are strengthening their positions and lately trying to join political parties, so that political parties, who come to power tomorrow, will allow them to either be judges and prosecutors, or to be lawyers, or to be public notaries. As far as the public records law, Madam Minister, as federal justice minister in 2000, I made a study on the notebook, which was published, and I see that you used it in part, which is a study through the Institute of Comparative Law. From this study you can see how in Europe, in the Anglo-Saxon countries and in continental law, the literature has been organized and since it works. This study was published in the Journal of Philosophy, Social Sciences and Political Culture, in the edition of the SRS. You have ten studies arranged for system laws, so I'm going to ask you to look at it and make sure that they've taken a good part of it from here, which I commend, the composers of this proposal a good part of the provisions. I welcome that, and I think it's a good thing. As for the law on security and enforcement, I can say that this is a law that was partially passed by the law we worked in the federal government in 2000, and it's a law on enforcement, where you took one part of the provisions of that law into force in the bill of law. However, what is unacceptable is that this law provides for judicial perpetrators and perpetrators. You want in an unconstitutional way and you want to transfer the judicial authority to the natural persons, to the agency, to the debt seekers, and they have no authority to do so. They're not a constitutional category. There's no constitutional category in our book either. What will the executioners now serve you, and for what will these perpetrators be as individuals, as entrepreneurs? When it comes to delivery, it may occur to you to go abroad, and that your caller or file hangs on the board, you have no knowledge of it, when you come to the apartment you can find another buyer of your apartment and thus suffer damage. The executor has the right to assess, and I am, but there is no skill. The perpetrator will carry out an estimate of a house worth 200,000 euros and will raise it to 50,000 euros, because if no one shows up at the first auction, he has the right to take it down to 30%. So what do we do? Now you're putting people in an unequal position here. I'm sure you should be careful to prevent a debt lobby, but debtors must also be protected. The biggest corruption in Europe, in the European Commission, has been brought out, are just public notebooks, and these new debt seekers, they will create chaos in the country. Without a judge there's no bread here, the judge has to control it. You allow the executioner to conclude and make decisions. Why? How can he assume judicial authority? (President: Mr. Jojic, time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53140	Thank you. The word is by Djordje Milicevic, an authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53141	Dear Mrs Malovic, the respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are ahead of us with four legislative proposals that are necessary, which are necessary. It's about the area of justice. It is, therefore, a proposal for a law on law on law on law on law on public records, a proposal for law on enforcement and security and a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. First of all, when it comes to the Law on Lawyerry, I would like to say that it is absolutely clear that it is necessary to pass a new law that will regulate this extremely important area and, among other things, in line with the constitutional principles and needs of modern society, and bearing in mind first and foremost the fact that the current Law on Lawyerry, as it is said, was adopted in 1998 as the Law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and that Serbia, among other things, was given the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Then, it is true, it is necessary to bring the normative framework into line with international documents, when it comes to this area and of course, as it is also said, given that Serbia is in the process of joining the World Trade Organisation and it is important to regulate the conditions when it comes to providing legal assistance in Serbia by lawyers who are foreign citizens. The law is also extremely important for Serbia's EU approach, as well as for Serbia's membership in the World Trade Organisation. That is why it is very important for Serbia to get a new law which, as has already been said, will regulate this profession in accordance with European standards, a profession that plays a significant role in the justice reform process in Serbia, but it is equally important for Serbia to get a quality law on law, which will also be in the interests of Serbian citizens, but of course also in the interests of the lawyers themselves and those to whom the law and the law itself applies. So find one balance between the state and the rules of independence, independence and self-regulatoryness. In addition to making the work version of this legislative proposal available to the public in all three stages and having held a number of public debates, when it comes to this legislative proposal, this legislative proposal, when it comes to that newspaper, has raised and raised a number of issues in the public. I don't want to talk about every newspaper today, and I don't want to say what was also a subject in public today that some protests had some kind of political background or not, but we want to express our satisfaction that the representatives of the Justice Ministry spoke to representatives of the Serbian Bar Association, representatives of the Belgrade Bar Association, and how much we could understand, after that conversation, should not, after this debate in principle and after the debate in particular, after the debate, or after the amendments and amendments that have been offered and which will be accepted, be not a misunderstanding and open question, but only one common interest for Serbia to get one quality law on law. When it comes to the draft law on public records, the adoption of this law is, in fact, a continuation of the reform of the judiciary and the obligations of the Justice Reform Strategy, adopted by the Republic of Parliament, it seems to me in 2006, and this is, among other things, stated in the light of this legislative proposal. We believe that the adoption of this legislative proposal will significantly relieve the work of courts, by transferring part of jurisdiction to public notaries or notaries. This is in some sense something that should help, that is, to help decentralisation the state administration, because the state is transferring its powers to certain public services. This is one newspaper in our judiciary that should also contribute to discharge, but also to greater efficiency and legal certainty. On the other hand, the aim is, therefore, to relieve the work of courts, as well as to speed up efficiency, or speed up the duration of court proceedings. We want to believe that by applying this law, we won't have that big crowd in the courts, when it takes a few hours to verify the signatures. So, as we understand it, citizens will have certainly a better service at the same price, which should be a common interest. The draft law also lays down the disciplinary responsibilities of notaries, their position, their activity, the way of association and obligations, the organisation, the way the public notary works and other matters that are important for their work, but what is above all necessary to determine are, I would say, clear rules for passing exams, which, as envisaged by the draft or draft law, will be laid down before the State Commission of Justice. As far as the draft law on enforcement and security is concerned, I would like to say that the SPS-JS Parliament Club supports this legislative proposal, because above all we support the objective of adopting this legislative proposal, which is the quick and effective enforcement of judicial decisions in civil and commercial procedures. This is something that is necessary and which is extremely important, bearing in mind the fact that what has already been said today during this opening debate, that Serbia is among the last in terms of efficiency in the execution of judgments and of course that this fact creates certain legal uncertainty for both citizens and investors, which is not good. On the one hand, the inability to execute, I'd say, is devising the decision itself, devising the whole process. On the other hand, it has an extremely negative impact on the overall economy in Serbia. The biggest newspaper in this legislative proposal is the system of a double way of executing court decisions, i.e. the introduction of private professional perpetrators, in addition to existing judicial and new judicial professions – a professional perpetrator is something that exists in more than 70% of European countries, and data from countries in the environment, as we could hear, shows that there has been a significant increase in the results of the work of the system, with very little investment from the state budget. Following the enforcement decision, the trustee will be able to choose whether to entrust the execution to a court or to a private professional perpetrator. Private perpetrators will carry out significant tasks previously carried out by court. They will receive a certain reward from those who hire them. They're responsible for the damage they may have done to the court, and we expect expertise and efficiency from them. Responsibility shall be ensured, as far as we understand, through the involvement of the Ministry of Justice and through the involvement of the courts. In the end, a few words about the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The adoption of this proposal is expected to create the necessary legal conditions for faster employment of a person in the administration, which is important and what is necessary, then, normative frameworks for the successful implementation of the prison sentence without leaving the premises in which the person resides. Some provisions are being amended that have caused major problems in practice. In fact, as stated in the legal explanation of this proposal, conditions are created to improve the general state of security in laws and to improve the provisions relating to the execution of so-called "the law". alternative sanctions. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the SPS-JS parliamentary club will support all four legislative proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53142	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Anyone else want a word? If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled and uniform search, applied for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: New Serbia, the LDP parliamentary group, the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, Advanced Serbia, the SRS and the ZES parliamentary group. I give my word to the MP, Mr. Bojan Đurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53143	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Popovic spoke a lot about the LDP's views compared to these four laws and practically announced our general position. We have submitted a series of amendments to some of these laws, first of all to the law on law of law. For some I believe that they are acceptable, about some perhaps problematic solutions, and which do not threaten in general neither the spirit nor the principle of the need to adopt a new law on attorneys. So some of these solutions would definitely fix it and I'll talk about some amendments or about the content of the amendments. First of all, I think it is important to say that, at least from the LDP's point of view, all of these laws, and especially the law on lawyerry, are practically an integral part of judicial reform. That is, for the most part, and so it would have been if there had been no general choice and some of the problems that followed it, but especially in view of the consequences, doubt, and even some of the problems that marked that part of the judicial reform, whose consequences are certainly to the public, and especially in that part of the very interested, and even unfavorable, are constantly exaggerated. But surely what happened will have consequences for both this law and the application of this law, so to some extent it must have consequences for some of its solutions. First of all, I am referring to the prohibition clause or the no-competitive clause, that is, to the principle of law enforcement, to the dispensation of enrolment in the legal directory, in the register of lawyers within two years for former court-holders. From a theoretical point of view, even from the point of view of the problems that we have in different areas, especially when it comes to the various forms of conflict of interest, it certainly stands. However, I think that we, on the other hand, must take care of the problem we are in, of the public's high sensitivity to the problem of unselected judges, of the very different statuses in which they are located, and I think that provision should be relativated. LDP MPs have submitted an amendment seeking its erasure. We can talk about its application being time-limited or delayed, etc. But we, on the other hand, are asking that perhaps through this debate, and certainly in the coming weeks finally put an end to, to clarify what is happening to those people who are not chosen, how many of them are, we have asked some of these questions -- how many of them have gone into legal order, to finally clear up this situation. It seems to me, seven or eight months since the claim by a parliamentary political party that several hundred former judges have become members of the party. Some of them are under appeal for decisions of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, some of them are being conducted and interrupted before the Constitutional Court. For all of them, practically, or for the vast majority, compensation from the budget is paid, and no one in this gala is able to cope and draw the line to say what the situation is. It's important to the citizens. Citizens also use legal services. Some of these people, meanwhile, became lawyers. If we're talking about this problem, then this restraining order within two years would practically not apply to those former judges and prosecutors who, meanwhile, became lawyers and enrolled in the lawyer's register. In the real situation, their problem is the same or similar in terms of the consequences or positions they can have in the future. The consequences of legal provisions would be different. It would create some kind of discrimination and some new kind of legal uncertainty. The LDP will vote in favour of the public records law. Practically since the establishment, the last five, five and a half years, the idea of introducing public notation, i.e. public-booking services, on the one hand, and certified private contractors in the executive procedure, on the other hand, is a very important part of the segment and programme and LDP policy. We support this decision by the legislator and most of the solution, especially given the fact that many MPs have mentioned this before me, that from the aspect of the efficiency of justice and judicial proceedings, but also from the aspect of potential and real violations of individual rights and human rights freedoms, the duration of the court procedure, especially of this executive act, is the biggest problem in recent years. It's the most difficult problem to solve. All these other problems depend to a lesser or larger extent or depend on the existence of political will. Some of the problems are resolved slower because perhaps the quality of this political will was not good enough and the realization of jobs is sufficiently effective, and on the other hand the resistance is exaggerated. Technical solutions must be found in this section and they must be implemented very consistently in order to improve the situation. You know that the overwhelming majority of the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights, but especially those that are under way, refers to this part of the court case, to Article 6 and Article 13. European Conventions on Human Rights, i.e. the right to a fair trial and the right to an effective remedy or an effective legal remedy. More or less, given the situation found, the European Court always makes the same judgments or the same decision, given that the description of the situation or the problem facing citizens and economic operators is always the same. We have submitted one amendment to the public records law. We'll see in this debate whether it'll be acceptable. We think that he is going to increase the security of citizens as users of this service, especially in a situation where a new service is being established that gets quite large and quite significant powers. I don't share this fear that Serbia will be in trouble and that after a number of other enemies we have, we'll start running foreign law offices here. I don't think there's any danger on that side, especially with our country that's always ready to protect especially the domestic monopoly, especially that monopoly when it attaches to some of its organs. We think that every kind of competition, even such, is good, that it must be introduced under very strict rules. We have a problem with this self-regularity, which Milicevic would have said earlier, and not just in this area. That's why so many problems exist in the bar, which is why this law is so important, and that's why there were so many misunderstandings in his writing and adoption. The lobbying is quite legitimate, that we understand each other immediately, but it has to operate according to some predetermined rules, it has to be fundamentally transparent and it has to be consistent with some basic, constitutional and general legal principles that define our life, including the functioning of this part of life. It is good that we finally gave up this idea to lawyer at least formally or within the meaning of the legal provision define and experience as some kind of public service to which anyone can access and that taking a lawyer, hiring a lawyer, his services are practically at the level of any other state service which, with the appropriate tax, we pay. There is a huge difference between lawyers in quality, reputation, ability. On the other hand, the basic purpose of legal work is not to protect the public interest but to protect the private interest above all, of course, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, but it does not separate this profession from any other or any other kind of business, so I think it is a good thing that the introductory provisions, in Article 2 and Article 3, are regulated in such a way. We think there may have been room to give up in one part of this rigid commitment that says that a lawyer can't be in a working relationship, that is, one of the conditions for a lawyer's entry is that he didn't start a working relationship, especially because of the real situation that exists, especially when it comes to younger lawyers and those who work in larger offices. In real life they work for some sort of fee that's kind of a salary, although it's not formally called that. On the other hand, they do not have the kind of guarantee that is related to labour rights. Finally, people in the law business, as in each other, differ in the amount and quality of ambition they have. For a number of reasons, some people will be satisfied that they may, in the right formal sense, be employed in some law firm, work in it, receive wages, have this kind of security, and may not have to invest that level of engagement, commitment, full-time engagement that requires that kind of partner status or law enforcement in this way. I think one part is inaccurate. It seems to me to be Article 21, which in one part speaks of the condition that it is not in a working relationship, and then that the contract on the work of that person does not prohibit competition. I think those two things overlap, but it's, more or less, a legal-technical objection to these provisions. These are some general ideas with which LDP enters this debate. I believe some of the amendments will be acceptable to you. We also insist on these questions that I have asked because of what is important, above all for the citizens, not for our political struggle here, but it is important for us to know how many of those judges who might potentially be able to return to the judicial cabinets and in the meantime how many of them have entered into the membership of some political parties, what their status, as many as are in the legal status, is finally to find out a little more precisely that amount that we are giving each month. He is not small and the Ministry and the state expect significant investments in this part as well. This is where the law school is being introduced, and we recently introduced the Judicial Academy. I think it might be more useful to resolve this situation, so that the money we don't have or have in a limited amount might be invested in that part of education or such an investment, not in this kind of spending of budget money. I don't have time. I hope we can talk more about this and the quality of legal education at some other time. I have to tell you, I spoke to 14 student leaders yesterday. I believe Prime Minister Putin, if he saw the number of student leaders, would have similar remarks he had here at a meeting with the heads of parliament, but none of them are lawyers. I have nothing against other professions, other schools, even these technical ones, but I don't think it's a natural situation for these current or future leaders to have any lawyers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53144	I apologize to the minority parliamentary group for not reading in the section when I was talking about submissions for the word, so I'm doing it this time. I give my word to Mr. Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53145	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only be brief on the proposals for a law on public records and on law enforcement. In principle, I support these two draft laws, I believe, will be complemented by amendments and we will have more comprehensive laws that will better process these very important areas of the judicial system. However, there is one amendment regarding Article 25 paragraph 1 point 5) regarding the necessary experience of five years after a legal examination for a public notary, I think it is still a very strong criterion, taking into account the experience gained to pass a judicial examination, it is quite enough after that two years of experience. I would also support the amendments submitted by the SVM Group on the issue of applying the Minority Act in these areas and in the work concerning public-booking documents, tables, stamps, stamps. As soon as the legal provisions do not specify these things, then in practice very little remains of bilingualism and at all from the official application of minority language. We have this experience from the justice system. There's a lot of pain in the ass to do that in practice. I have an opinion, and it's probably also these existing laws that we recently passed that we haven't been sufficiently specific about these obligations to use minority language. Given that this use increases the volume of work, it is an increased amount of work that a judge must do. Then people resort to what is easier, and it is usually easier to work in one language and then master a language that, under one, is official and therefore we have a weak application of minority language in practice, especially now in the case of Presevo, Bujanovac, a very weak application of Albanian language. However, translators have been admitted in the Vranj basic court, and they have a notary, but there are already problems, for example. at the Court of Violations, where the systematisation probably does not yet provide for a place where it should be a writer and knowledge of Albanian language, so that the Albanian language can also be applied in judicial proceedings in the Court of Justice for Violations. I see they have a problem. They announced the contest and then the appeal procedures for these undefined things take time. As it lasts, I see, three months, the least appeal procedure for one seat of interns in the Vranj General Court, and there are no trainees who know Albanian language currently in the Vranj basic court. One was admitted two or three months ago, but the appeal is still pending. If we don't have interns, we won't have judges, then we won't have candidates when the competitions are out, not just for the judges of the Court of Justice, but we're talking about the Supreme Court. How do we have an Albanian in the Supreme Court, if we haven't barely secured four out of 43 in the Vranj Basic Court, because that bad practice was? If it wasn't for the interns, if it wasn't for the judge's assistants, then you can't even get to the judge. In this case, I think this practice is also reflected in law enforcement, where law offices have significantly reduced their work since the application of the new system, because all things are now going on in Vranje. Mrs. Malovic, two or three months ago, you made it public here that there was no problem for judicial units to do a shortened procedure, but it does not go into practice. Who says that it prevents this prosecution from happening without a certain will in the prosecution? But the fact is that these judicial units in Presevo and Bujanovac, except for the civil case, absolutely can't, have not yet begun any of the cases under that shortened procedure. I don't see why, because it's far more rational. Then the law offices would probably have more to do and then this law on law enforcement would have had a stronger application, and hopefully the public record that they would handle some affairs and would release the courts of excessive affairs they had so far. In the end, I point out that these amendments should be seen to improve these billing proposals and to better address this very important area.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53146	The word is Mr. Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have some very important laws ahead of us, but first of all, I'd like to say a few words about the bill on law. I think you certainly understand me because as a son of a lawyer and as a grandson of a lawyer, who from 1935 to 1941 dealt with both public records and was a royal public notary, I think it is appropriate to once again underline the importance of law enforcement and public notation, and I feel the need to explain how the need for this area to be well arranged and proposed legal solutions. I come from Pancheva, from Vojvodina, which brings into our legal system a very large tradition of law enforcement, including notation. As a lawyer, I was taught the best examples of good practice and wonderful examples of great lawyers who marked not only a certain time but also an era. There is no lawyer in Vojvodina who does not carry a piece of Jovan Muskatirovic, the first Serbian lawyer in Austria, the part of Polita Desančić, Jovan Sterija Popovic, Milorad Botic, longtime president of the Vojvodina Bar Association of Lawyers, longtime editor of the Voivodine Law Chamber and editor of the professional ethics code. We also carry a trail of what the great lawyers left south of the Danube and from other places, who together built what we called a Yugoslav lawyer. Lawyers have just taken on great responsibility and have often been ahead of their own time in breaking historical moments. Often, for the sake of justice, they themselves were killed. Looking at all the size of lawyers who have defended and defended their honour and ethics with honor and protection, let's remember only Nikola Djonovic and Dr Dragic Joksimovic, as well as the president of the Serbian Bar Association and the Association of Bars of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Sutotic. The descendants of Dr Dragic Joksimovic and Slobodan Subotic, who personally suffered, our colleagues, Natasa Vukovic and Nenad Konstantinovic, sit with us in the parliamentary benches. Speaking of all who have left us an indication of how this responsible, difficult, and above all noble work should be done, I would like to point out that all of them have left an indication of how this area should be arranged. It is precisely this bill of law that should create conditions to better regulate this judicial profession, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which established the law as an independent and independent service providing legal assistance to citizens and legal persons. In a few words, it is difficult to count all the benefits of this bill, but at least something should be pointed out. The draft law on law of law provides for legal action, conditions for the practice of lawyers and forms of work – rights, obligations and responsibilities of lawyers and legal trainees and organisations and the work of lawyers’ chambers of attorneys. In particular, independence, independence and the public importance of lawyerry are being underlined, and this is very important. When fundamental human rights and freedoms are threatened, often right now, the attorney is left alone on the stand for the protection of these fundamental values. It is therefore extremely important to create legal conditions for this to be preserved. The draft law provides for conditions for the practice of law enforcement, the rights and duties of lawyers. In a new, different and much more appropriate way, the possibility of continuous training and improving the work of lawyers is envisaged. The future work of the Bar Association has been regulated as a special body in charge of permanent training of lawyers, lawyers, graduate lawyers and persons employed in law offices and as bodies in charge of training the theoretical and practical knowledge and skills of lawyers necessary for professional, independent, independent, effective and ethical lawyers, as well as specialising lawyers in a particular area of law and law. The bill also provides for a lawyer's examination consisting of an examination of the knowledge of domestic and international laws and legal acts relating to law enforcement. It is important that we reaffirm the importance of law enforcement in our society and thus contribute to the respect of the law and the rule of law, and in particular to the protection of fundamental social values. It was precisely the greatest lawyers in decades who have throughout history set standards of conduct for the benefit of the people, for the benefit of the poor, for the benefit of the unsettled and for the benefit of the future, regardless of the times in which they lived. That is why I call upon you to adopt this law, to contribute to the regulation of this area that is very important to society as a whole. I call on you, as MPs, to support this law, to support all the useful amendments that will further improve this good bill. Also, I invite you to regulate this very important matter in the way it's arranged in all developed countries, but primarily because of ourselves. By adopting the Law on Lawyerry, we will successfully continue the reform process and show that we are committed primarily to creating conditions for the full protection of fundamental rights, both citizens and legal persons. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I urge you to adopt all proposed laws in the day to vote, including the law on law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53148	The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Honorable Madam Minister, we have before us really important laws that govern one of the most sensitive areas regarding every citizen, not only Serbia, but anyone who lives on this planet. So, the laws to which we are approaching the final reform of the judiciary, which is not the best and the happiest past, which has not given the desired results that we have so transparently announced, but which is certainly necessary and necessary and we, as a parliamentary group of NS, have been very active, amendmentally involved in trying to make these draft laws better, because they are really necessary. What my colleague used to say before me, I am really proud of the same examples he cited and in the name of that good of our duchy practice, and I am saying first and foremost as someone who comes from Vojvodina and who is the heritage of the traditions of orderly relations, therefore, proud of all this, I call on you to be very objective on behalf of the further promotion of the judiciary against all amendments coming from the parliamentary groups, regardless of whether it is a position or opposition, to objectively view them and to adopt them all, and we believe that as a parliamentary group there we have been extremely useful, all those who will contribute to the benefit of the Serbian citizens. It means, above all, that they are effective and applicable, because only such laws have the purpose of life. The law on law is a very important law. He was, as you yourself said, under public discussion. In this proposal, we do not view it as completely perfect and we believe that there is much to fix, because the function of a lawyer in the people is very important, and you know that the attorney's office is not always just a place where people try to find a mediator between themselves, justice and injustice, or to try to get some justice, very often, gentlemen lawyers who are MPs know that, very often they are both psychologists and psychiatrists and counselors and comforters and everything else that follows that function. After all, it's someone that people very often, at least in the areas where I come from, have long spoken with doctors, not only because that function has this professional calling, but because a lawyer has been observed very often, in a way, as a doctor, someone who has treated from many things. That lawyers should never forget, and that sublime role should never and nothing be questioned, and God forbid they get dirty. So, in the name of that, and reminding you of what the EU has given as an assessment of the reforms of our judiciary, without any ill intention, and without any desire to criticise it more and more, we remind you that the path to reform is long, slow, and that they, especially in the judiciary, do not suffer frequent interventions. The Law on Public Registration, which returns to Serbia's legal or legislative scene, once again has been a function that we have found to be very much needed, has serious shortcomings. I'm saying, we've put a few remarks in there, too. I see they've also put together colleagues from other parliamentary groups. We expect you to appreciate that, because that's one thing, in these new generations, a new experience that we all get and it gets to citizens along with us. The system works when everyone in it is involved, and the users, and the state that needs to do it. In particular, it will be a problematic and ungrateful legislative solution regarding judicial perpetrators. Some new categories are being introduced. We know they're the most popular characters in life. We know it's part of a life that's very unpleasant for both sides. We know that trustees need protection. About this, counterpart Srdjan Spasojevic spoke very comprehensively, drawing attention to those fine, inconspicuous gaps that exist, which should be respected. So one of the more difficult legal solutions, one of the more difficult legal proposals, which you'd probably find more difficult to bring, and that's what's going to happen, and what's actually going to come up with a lot more bad examples in the application itself, but that's part of our life. Court decisions when executives have to be executed, like it or not. Only then does the state exist and only then does the state serve the benefit of its citizens. What we expect as a parliamentary group is that a large number of amendments that we have put on these four legislative proposals, which we have indeed been professionally and professionally, respecting the interests of the profession, respecting the interests of the citizens, we propose, we expect you to see them, to adopt those that are useful and to adopt those of other parliamentary groups that you think may be better than our solutions. It's likely that someone suggested something that's better, but certainly, in the end, these laws, when they approach adoption, are what citizens expect. Certainly, your relationship with our amendments and our proposals will be addressed by us in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53150	The word has an MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53151	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, we have several very important laws ahead of us, I would say systemically. Of course, I'm going to express my dissatisfaction with which so important laws are again, for who knows which time, in this assembly, joined into one item of the agenda, but I wouldn't be too long on this issue, because it's obviously become a practice, I'd say a bad practice of the ruling majority in this assembly, because sometimes the rush can be very harmful. A little while ago, my colleague Mikovic, I don't see him in the O.R., mentioned some famous Serbian lawyers, so let me give him one answer. I will mention a lawyer from Smederev, Michael Staikovec, after whose resignation before the 1869 Constitution was passed, a position taken that lawyers could not be MPs. Apparently, that's when the furniture had some serious problems with the lawyers. The right approach to this subject will lead to no problem with lawyers. We, as a party that supported judicial reform, have taken this problem very seriously and all these laws. We have submitted a dozen amendments and, of course, we will insist on their adoption. I would refer again to what my colleague Mikovic said. In a good legal manner, he was an excellent defender of the texts of these laws. It would turn out that we have three great texts of the law in front of us. Of course, they're not great, because if they were great, we wouldn't be trying to fix them with amendments. On the other hand, we have submitted a dozen amendments, because we think that they are essential and that the submission of 20, 30, 50 amendments is actually a form of obstruction, because if there are so many amendments to one law, then you better write a new bill proposal, rather than such an obstructive approach trying to change the content of the whole law. I would add one more thing, we had, which was very liked, one serious and constructive conversation with the representatives of the Justice Ministry before the debate on this set of laws even started. I can say that we have reached agreement on the good part of what we have tried to amend. I'd say such good practice should continue in the future. Of course, we'll have more time when we talk about the amendments themselves, so I wouldn't pay too much attention to that issue. I'd like to make a few general comments. These laws introduce some newspapers that our legislation did not recognise. In particular, the law on enforcement, therefore, is not only done by state authorities, but there is a possibility of doing so in another way. We think that this will increase efficiency and we will, of course, support it. We've been waiting a long time for the public record law. Without public records law and without public notebooks, in our opinion, there is no adequate efficiency in performing certain public affairs and public authorities. I would like to ask a specific question – are the deadlines adequate, perhaps, regarding the law on public records? Personally, I think the deadlines for meeting some of the important things that are foreseen by law are short. Perhaps later I would also like to hear an explanation of why the authors of the bill have precisely defined themselves for such solutions and for such deadlines. Since the time my parliamentary group has is running out, the rest of what we wanted to propose in addition to the amendments, and in general, we will work on the law in general when there is a debate in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53152	The word is Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we generally support the idea of the adoption of a law on public notebooks, primarily because of the introduction of greater security into legal traffic, because of the ease of proof, and because of the discharging of courts from a series of those actions that they would otherwise be obliged to do. If in 1930 we had the Law on Public Notes, which looked like this, you see, there are only a few pages, it was at that time an extremely modern law, a very well-balanced law and a law that respected all the good features of the Latin Notary System, then it is understood that even today, 80 years after that, we should have a law that is at least roughly similar to that of this law. What is very visible throughout the entire text of the law, this one we are now discussing, is the enormous jurisdiction of the minister to regulate all major issues related to public notebooks. The present picture of the judiciary best speaks of what happens in the judiciary when the minister is given a free hand – the judiciary is reformed in such a way that even those who are invited to share justice no longer believe in him. Many, because of fear of preserving their own function, do not hesitate to abuse that same function, or the same institution in which they work, to participate in the installation and creation of mounted processes. Well, in short, it's a picture of the judiciary today. Yet to return to the text of this law. It is obvious that the legislator's intention to have a decisive impact on the appointment of the first hundred public notebooks. The question arises – why the first 100? Why wasn't that number smaller? If the number is said to be determined on the basis of the criteria of the territory of the basic courts, why did the legislators not start from the fact that there are 34 public notebooks, how many basic courts in Serbia at all? I don't see any reason to be in such a hurry, since the law is only starting to apply since 1 July 2012. I don’t know if it was at all a discussion that the election, or the appointment of the first public notebooks, was left to the National Assembly. I think in that case we'd have one transparent election procedure, and like this, we only have an undiscovered intention of complete control of such a process. It is very strange why it is primarily the minister, because he is responsible for the appointment of public notebooks, goes after the formulation that he, the minor, will appoint more notebooks than he will do when a public-book chamber is formed. It's totally unacceptable for us, and I think that's how a huge impact is being made on the choice of public notebooks. The appointment process for public notebooks is dedicated only to a few members, unless I'm wrong from 25 to 30. I've read the law many times, so there's no need to look at it anymore. Of course, it is not good and it is not good that no criteria have been developed, nor criteria for the appointment of public notebooks alone. There's a feeling that there's going to be a similar situation here as the re-election of judges, because there's a lot of room left for arbitrary decision-making. You're very aware of that. Who guarantees us that the minister of justice will not name the first hundred public notebooks on the basis of his personal findings, from the people of your immediate environment, members of the party, friends of the party, whoever he wants? There is no guarantee of such a thing in this text of the law. That should be made clear. Furthermore, it goes so far in this will that it is even said that the minister will appoint a competition commission that will only be composed of three members. You don't even know which three members. Madam Minister, I'm now asking you which three members: your driver, secretary of state or your bodyguard? Because of the way you've re-elected, this scenario is not impossible at all. You're very well aware of that. I ask you now to explain to us in front of everyone what three members you have in mind and why it does not appear in the bill. In some very well-regulated systems, countries that have a long public-book tradition, the competition commission is primarily composed of judges of the highest court in the country and professors of law. I know it's a lot easier for you when you're out of touch with your profession, because in that situation you do whatever you want, as you've done with the judges, but I'm asking you to define this issue more seriously and take this issue seriously. The job of a public notary is definitely, not only will it be in our country but everywhere in the world, extremely well paid, and because of the way the bill provides for the appointment of public notebooks, there is a big room for doubt about the impartiality of the election. On this occasion, I call on the Anti-Corruption Agency to closely monitor the overall procedure and to open its eyes at the appointment of the first hundred public notebooks, and then as it were. Furthermore, why is it not foreseen that persons who have completed specialist studies in the field of public records do not have the advantage of being appointed as public notaries? Why isn't that written in the bill? I am saying this not because of my own personal interest, but because many people have completed specialist studies, which at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, which at the second university organized by professors who were, in the end, members of the Working Group who did this text of the law. So, I was a member of the first generation specialist studies in the field of public literature at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, and we had the opportunity to gain knowledge from the highest-quality professors, so-called. a pioneer of public records in Serbia. What makes the status of persons who have completed specialist studies completely equal to the status of those who may first have heard of the profession of public records? This is something that should have been much better regulated by this bill and should have been given a little more seriousness. When it comes to the professional education of public notebooks, we would go even further. If we were to ignore the fact that you did not recognise the specialist studies at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, we would have taken a step further – why did you not accept that attending a public-book academy would be mandatory? It's something other countries have, countries with a long public-book tradition. I don't think that would do any harm, on the contrary, to the greater benefit. At the very least, in parallel with regard to professional education of public notebooks, great attention is paid and very strict conditions are required. In that sense, I think it would be in some way a prerequisite for the affirmation of this profession at its very beginning. Because of all the shortcomings I've been talking about today, I think this law is an example of how one good idea, an idea that is useful to the legal system, because of the excessive ambition of one circle of people to control the whole process of naming and to subdue it to themselves, can be devalued.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53154	The word is Mrs Daniela Lovrin Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53155	Dear Vice President, Mrs Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing four very important laws in the area of justice, which satisfy European standards in every sense. That's very important, given our European orientation. What makes me, as someone who lives in this country, happy and particularly important to me, that these laws will greatly contribute to improving the situation in which citizens find themselves in court. My colleagues talked about legal solutions and referred to certain members of the law, and I will look back at how these laws will improve the position of citizens when they are in court. That's exactly what I'm going to talk about about the law on enforcement and security and the law on public records. In my opinion, you'll agree, it was much easier to be in debt than to be a trustee. The state, in fact, protected the debtor by such a legal solution, by handling the court in a debt-confidential relationship. The debtor was quite obnoxious: I order a certain job, the job is realised, the obligation when I should have paid for that job was long gone, and I'm still acting like I don't care, just, you know, protecting me from the state, protecting me from the law. Under this law, he won't be able to do it anymore. That's why we say a lot of that kind of behavior, he can't play the country anymore, he can't play the trustee anymore. We've made such a legal solution that for the first time protects the trustee. To support what I've just said, I'm going to list three novelties in this law, which contribute to the fact that we're protecting the trustee today, which is normal, not protecting the debtor. The newspaper in this law represents that there is no vomiting in the previous state. Very often, the debtor stated in court submissions that he was unable to take some legal action, the judges accepted it as a fact, did not check it, there was a return to the previous situation, the executive proceedings were unjustly delayed and all of this goes into favour of the debtor. The second newspaper, which is provided for in this law, is an increased number of executors. This contributes to a more efficient enforcement process. Now the trustee will be able to choose whether he wants a court execution, so a court enforcer, or to hire a new enforcer. The very fact that there are more perpetrators, that the trustee can choose whether to hire the bailiff, whether to hire the perpetrator himself, says that the executive procedure will be much more effective. Finally, in my opinion, the most significant newspaper in this law, which provided the most opportunity for the executive procedure to be unjustly delayed, is a newspaper that refers to the written procedure itself in the executive procedure. Namely, the current way of delivering letters to the executive debtor has enabled a delay, it was enough to know the perpetrator who will appear with you, to realize that he did not find you in the place where you registered your residence, and so the procedure will invariably delay. We even know a nice story in Capco when a lawyer appeared as a debtor. The bailiff went to his office to hand him a written report on the executive procedure. He's not gonna believe it. He's disguised himself. He put on a wig, put on a mustache and put on glasses, when the bailiff showed up and tried to hand it to him in writing, he said - I didn't, I can tell him you were looking for him, but I'm not the one. It's a very nice story. If she wasn't sad, she'd be funny. On the other hand, this law stipulates that it is writtenly considered to be delivered, so the perpetrator will try to deliver it in writing once. If that doesn't work, he'll point it out on the court's notice board. Within five days, delivery shall be deemed to have been carried out neatly. Therefore, a debtor can disguise himself as much as he wants, it's no longer worth anything to him. The second law I want to talk about is the law on public records. This law represents a newspaper and our legal system. I think it'll increase legal certainty. I'm going to point out one example again, so that our citizens understand what this really means and why it's important that we have public notebooks and why someone who comes into the situation needs public notebook services. When I worked at the Social Work Centre in my day, we had a big problem, and I had a lot of headaches about a woman who was in her middle age, and she wasn't provided in the sense that she had someone's support and protection, she lived alone, she concluded a gift contract with one, I'm free to say, a fraud. We know that this gift agreement would be valid, it's necessary for the contract parties to be certified by the court, and that form was fulfilled and we would say, okay, the woman herself wanted to conclude the gift contract, and she was left without property, that's her will, there's nothing we can do about it. It would have been so that it was not obvious that this woman was unable to understand for herself the meaning of her legal act and that it was indeed her true will. In the end, she ended up at the gerontological center. We put her in a nursing home because she had nowhere to live, she had no property. The con man remains unpunished. We later refuted that contract, and the state was costing her stay at the gerontological center. The cheater remained unpunished, and he was right to mock the welfare center this time, to mock the state as well. Such a situation will no longer be possible by introducing public notebooks, which in addition to being responsible for criminally and materially in criminal terms for their actions and for the work that it does, in the end of the day, is not much more important to the parties that appear in public notebooks, but it also corresponds to the deposited funds for the damage caused by its actions, which is, of course, more important to the parties to be sure that any damage they suffer will be compensated. So this is a good legal solution, this is a good law. Of course, I will support him, and certainly also the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53156	The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53157	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as my colleagues have said, an important law, unfortunately fell into the shadow of a politically important and often discussed law in the public, the Law on Lawyerry, which is the Law on Implementation and Security. Personally, in this whole set of laws, this is the most important law that we are discussing today, given that the resolution on this law and the realisation of the provisions of this law are directly protected and exercised by the rights of citizens who have both in contractual relations and in other relations that they establish with each other. What is a feature of this set of laws, on the one hand, is the state's transfer of public authority. We could say that this is a session where the state is transferring public powers, when it comes to public notebooks, when it comes to the law on enforcement and security, and on the other hand, the state strengthens its authority by the powers vested in both the Government and the Ministry. When looked at, the overall result of the debate on these laws is that this government wants with less authority to rule. Right, powers are passed on, but the government is tightening, and that's how we have the situation when it comes to the Law on Lawyerry and when it comes to these two laws. In my debate, I will focus on the law on enforcement and security, which should have removed the problems we heard here in the debate and in the opening words of the minister, which, unfortunately, will not be removed, because a number of contradictory solutions here are built in, which will greatly complicate and delay the process and procedure of execution that we already have. I'll list some of those solutions. First deadlines - five days. We haven't heard any arguments, except the minister's lapidary that it's a five-day deadline to achieve something. We all know, who we've been working in practice, which means five working days. That means weekends and holidays don't count. That's not what we've had in the past. How does that achieve acceleration? In fact, since this famous five-day deadline is being introduced at all stages of the procedure, we will have a slowdown of the executive procedure and citizens should know it. Furthermore, the introduction of private contractors; be careful, a series of key issues and problems here have not been answered. First, we have two types of executioner. What is the cost of treating one another? Let's all bet here, especially those who are in practice, that private contractors will cost more. Now let's see what effect this larger payment is going to have. It will be more efficient and more applied force and you will see what will turn into offices where private contractors work and who will be private contractors, strong guys who will first explore where all possible assets are located, various methods they knew from previous jobs, and then "friendly" will convince citizens that before the procedure is started, it is better to pay in time. It will be a more effective force-making process, and it will be brought to the attention of the executive process, and at the same time it will be paid much better than the trustees. of public enterprises and of all those who currently have money in Serbia. We see this in particular in a situation where it gives the right to a private perpetrator to act on a proposal for a credible ID. This means that all municipal accounts will be charged by private contractors by making the decision that it is a credible document and going to work to collect it. Watch the contradiction, this is a matter for colleagues who are in practice, a draft decision can be made by a private enforcer. It is not a matter of drawing up a draft, but of the draft, the judge approves it as a valid solution. That's how government powers are passed on to private persons. The delivery issue, you haven't solved anything here on delivery. What have you solved? All possible problems and plugs that existed in the delivery and now will exist. You don't touch the problem of delivering to the physical. We have invested an amendment where we believe that we will succeed in the right way, such solutions already exist in a procedure that regulates the issue of tax administration. Three days, you didn't pick up your letters, it's supposed to be served. That's how the procedure is accelerated. Madam Minister, I'd like you to explain to us what the jury is looking for in the second degree in the executive procedure. It's something I don't think is anywhere and we just all know what second degree procedure means and what legal knowledge is required there. Now we're bringing the jury into second degree? Executing on real estates that aren't listed in a public book, that's fine. In some ways, all those who avoid the execution of property in various ways, especially knowing that we have an extremely unsupervised stairway, to enable the trustee to collect his claims on such immovable property. But then, in this process, you must be careful of what powers you have passed on to private perpetrators. It says: if the area in which there are public books is not registered, the Executive Trustee may file documents on the basis of which the registration or transfer of that obligation may be made to the executing entity. Why would the contractor now especially private contractor chase and screw up documents that are of interest to the trustee? Why are these powers being transferred? All you could do was move as far away from the court as you could. The state here gives up very important powers of authority. Therefore, this whole law, with extended deadlines, with the unresolved status of private reports, when it comes to costs, when it comes to their powers, with the unresolved issue of delivery, will in no case solve this objective problem that we have, which is the slowness in the execution. At the end of the line, this law was to come after the announced law on litigation, as you said the executive procedure was a continuation of the litigation process. Why didn't you see how you arranged the litigation process, how you cut deadlines or abolished some legal means, and on that basis you discussed this law? Citizens looking for money under this law won't be able to make it happen. You've missed a great opportunity. Accept our amendments, I believe it will improve the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53158	Thank you. Based on article 87, I'm setting a one-hour break. The work continues at 15.00 hours. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53159	We continue to work in the afternoon debate, and in accordance with the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform review of the proposals for the laws referred to in points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 18 of the agenda. The word has a People's MP, Mihailo Puric, and after that, MP Milos Aligrudic, because he has other obligations if he arrives, if he does not, will be in order when the parliamentary group according to business obligations has the right to receive the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53160	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, we have four very important draft laws ahead of us. I will talk about two draft laws, these are the draft law on public records and the draft law on enforcement and security. What I'm trying to say is that the proposal for a law on public records for the Republic of Serbia, within its legal system, establishes an institution of public records. The adoption of this law will transfer part of state affairs to the public-booking service, which will contribute to legal certainty, the dispensation of courts and authorities of the administration and allow citizens and legal persons to exercise their rights more quickly and easily. Conditions are being created for the efficient functioning of courts because the adoption of the law on public records will free up cases that do not constitute a trial in the narrow sense of words. Therefore, the adoption of this law is extremely important because it represents a continuation of the reform of the judiciary, which meets the obligations of the National Strategy and the judicial reform, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Public records, as a judicial profession, exist in most European states, as well as in the former Yugoslav republics. The fact that our country recognises the legal force of foreign public-booking acts is another reason for the institution of public records to be introduced into our legal system as well. The provisions of the proposed law also define public notation as a service of public trust, and a public notary as an expert in the field of law appointed by the minister of justice who exercises public authority entrusted with the law. The public notary or Latin "notarius", which means scribe, is the person whose state has recognised special authority over the civil-legal documents. In the system of public records, as a free profession, the public register is a person of public confidence who independently and independently performs public service, performing as an impartial trustee of the parties. Unlike lawyers, who, as a rule, represent one of the parties, the public notary is the expert trustee of all parties who come forward. It is impartial with respect to parties for the reason it comes to the public interest, i.e. it provides public transport security. The public register is a professional person whose qualifications and expertise, as well as experience, represents additional security for legal parties in general. What we can say here clearly, in Article 25 of the proposed law, it is clearly defined that a public notary can be appointed as a person who meets the requirements laid down in the law: that a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is able to do business, has a general health certificate, has a degree in law school in the Republic of Serbia or has nostrificed a degree in law school acquired outside the Republic of Serbia, has passed a judicial exam, has a public notary exam, has at least five years of legal experience after a legal examination, is worthy of public confidence to carry out public records' affairs, has or can prove that he will provide adequate premises and equipment to carry out the work of a public notebook. What is even more important is that I want to point out that the public notary is authorized to draw up, verify, issue public documents on legal matters, statements and facts on which rights are based, then verify private documents and take over for the keeping of documents, money, securities of value, as well as other items. The law defines three basic types of public-book documents, which is: public-book records, public-book records and public-book certificates. The law also defines the principle of legal and safe conduct of a public notary. It determines that the public notebook performs activity in its official field and headquarters, as well as that public notebooks are joined in chambers. The number of public-book sites shall be determined by the minister of justice, in the opinion of the chamber, so that at least one notary place is determined by the rule of law for the territory of one municipality, city or city municipality. As an additional criterion for the determination of public-book sites, a higher population concentration and more intensive economic activity are prescribed, in which case one public-book place is set to 25,000 inhabitants. The public notebook is required to keep a business secret, i.e. keeping confidential all the information and knowledge they come up with regarding their service. The public register shall also be responsible for the damage caused by the party by the violation of its official duty, or regulations which it is otherwise required to comply with. The adoption of public records law, as independent and independent professions, creates conditions for the elimination of the costs of the existence and maintenance of the public records system as a state administration, raises the quality of public records services, given the prescribed high qualifications and expertise of the public notary, as well as the increase of legal certainty, given the great responsibility for the exercise of such duties and the serious direct consequences in the event of violations of those duties. What I'd like to say is, this is one of the major institutes and newspapers that will be in our judicial system, but a very significant bill of law on which I'm going to tell the litigator is the draft law on enforcement and security. What I want to point out is that the applicable Implementing Procedure Act was adopted in November 2004, and has been implemented since February 2005. The current law has many shortcomings because it has been shown in practice that the executive procedure is going on indefinitely long, even after a few years. In this way, it loses the sense of conducting any court proceedings and leads to the creation of a situation that, after the execution of the verdict, another procedure with uncertain and largely long durations is under way. Some of the execution cases take longer than the previous litigation. It is a small percentage of the collection of claims and the weakness of the state nature of more citizens, as well as domestic and foreign investors. I want to point out that there is no justice without the execution of court decisions. Therefore, reform of the enforcement system is essential for Serbia's economic development. The purpose of the enforcement procedure is that the judicial executive decision is naturally carried out by the State, if the executive debtor does not do so voluntarily and within a specified time limit. The new law should ensure the swift and effective enforcement of judicial decisions, both in civil and commercial procedures. If we start from one of the biggest problems in the enforcement process, the special newspaper in this law is the introduction of extrajudicial enforcement officers who would take the executive action to implement a decision on the enforcement of the court. The court perpetrators will be replaced by professional perpetrators on the most difficult cases in the future. A new law on enforcement and security introduces professional perpetrators into Serbia's judicial system. The private contractor will be a new profession in Serbia's legal system and that is a very important thing. A professional executor, who will be able to run for graduate lawyers with clearly defined experience, is introduced into the executive system parallel to the already existing system of judicial enforcers. Citizens will be able to decide whether to hire official or professional perpetrators. What I would like to point out is that when we talk about extrajudicial perpetrators or professional perpetrators, that's what those personalities and those people who are dealing with this business will have to have in particular, and if we compare them to a court enforcer, we will see that they are much more stringent criteria, and that gives us the right to guarantee that the execution of a judicial verdict will be much more quality and better. The out-of-court executives and professional executives will have to have a degree in law school and have appropriate working experience and passed specialist exam and license of the Ministry of Justice, have official legitimacy, provide themselves with means of work and equipment, act independently within the framework of legal provisions and powers granted to him by the trustee, pay the services in accordance with the determined tariff, pay him the debtor who bears the costs of execution, corresponds to his own property and has an obligation to provide professional liability insurance. When it comes to judicial perpetrators, we'll see that the situation is more difficult. When we talk about court enforcers, what I would like to point out is that they often have an inadequate degree of education, they don't have specialist training, they don't have uniform legitimacy, they don't have official cars and equipment for each shop, they wait for a proposal from the trustees and a solution from the court, they work for the monthly salary of a civil servant, they get paid from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and they don't match their own assets, and you're not sure, so by introducing a professional enforcer, we'll greatly improve the way of execution. What is important to point out in this bill is that professional perpetrators will be strictly controlled, will be supervised by an executive judge who conducts the executive procedure, the execution chamber and ultimately by the minister of justice. The law states exactly what infringements of labour and professional obligations are subject to disciplinary responsibility and sanctions will be adequate to the severity of the infringement. What I would point out in the end is that, in accordance with the above-mentioned adoption of the new law on enforcement and security, an optimal regulatory framework will be created, which will help the executive debtors to carry out their obligations voluntarily established in the executive documents, and in case they do not, guarantee that the executive procedure will be implemented quickly and efficiently. I would like to point out that in the voting day we will vote for these four draft laws, because they greatly improve and reform the judiciary and put citizens' interests first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53161	Nine minutes has been used since the MPs' time. The word is made by MP Milos Aligrudic, followed by MP Aleksandar Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53162	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't speak to the Minister because he's not in the O.R. right now, but I hope he's listening, and if he's not listening, then it's irresponsible. I can't talk about all the bill proposals that are being discussed today for the simple reason it's illogical, there's no way that in about seven or eight minutes, how long it's been left for the DSS parliamentary group, I'm paying attention to everything on the agenda, and it's still proving our claim that things are coming together here by force for reasons not to be properly discussed. I'll define myself as a law of law on law, simply because I'm a lawyer. My lawyer's office is currently at rest, I am a member of Serbia's Bar and Belgrade's Bar of Lawyers, I am regularly paying membership fees, and in some ways I have an interest in protecting this profession in the way the Constitution protects it in Article 67, to be truly independent and free. The problem arises not only with this bill, but with all these bill proposals, I would not say it because of the intricacies of the promoter, the promoter is professional, the promoter knows how to write bill proposals and I do not doubt the nomotechnical skills of the proponent. What I doubt - I doubt good intentions, because if one law was accidentally written badly, the next one wouldn't. If we get a bunch of laws that are surreal, then there's something else coming up, there's a suspicion that there's a certain radical political impact on people who know how to write a bill, but then they have to invent some wonders in that text, to satisfy someone's particular interests, something that someone imagined. The best example can be given when it comes to this bill of law on law, who followed the newspaper and who is interested in it at all, I think a number of people in Serbia are interested in this because they followed this continuing fight between the Belgrade Bar of Lawyers and the Serbian Bar of Lawyers, the general dispute, the election assembly and other things. This, unfortunately, in the conditions in which this country and we live and how this country works, turns out to be a tragic consequence of overall opportunities. This is the state where court proceedings are installed. Our colleague Dragoljub Micunovic said at one point that the trial, it was two months ago on the "Charge" against Mayor Zrenjanin in his time, was so made that it was loaded. You have a case of someone declaring themselves a terrorist because he threw a flammable bottle at an embassy in the foreign country and damaged 18 euros. You have a public prosecutor's announcement that he will call for a hearing of the leaders of a parliamentary party for no reason, you have general pressure on the judiciary and that is one mature social atmosphere, where you have a law profession that treats you irresponsiblely. I have the right to say that because I am a member of that profession. What these people are doing, it's not right. It's an esnaf. If they have any misunderstandings, it is up to the esnaf to remove their misunderstandings and continue to provide services in the way the Constitution and the law provides. Do you know where the problem arises? The problem arises there when the state starts to intervene, supporting an open one current and this bill that you have given us, which I have in my hand, is an obvious example of the Justice Ministry's agreement with a certain part of the law's esnaf, which has no other function than when it comes into force to defeat another current through that bill. If anything breaks down and violates the dignity of this house, it disrupts what you do. People's MPs as representatives of citizens cannot be an instrument in the politics of a group of esnaf in Serbia. You have no right to do this to us. I appeal to members of the ruling coalition not to allow this, but to vote on any possible amendment, even if this law is also contradictory, so as not to draw it out and to vote again on this and to write it politely. Here's pure evidence, this law is, on the one hand, aloof, because it sets out conditions for the functioning of the Serbian Bar Association by prescribing each of God's conditions, from membership to membership to the fact that the Law Chamber of Serbia or the other daughters of the Chamber should have. That's absolute nonsense. Let the esnaf settle its internal organization with its statute. The law serves to give only minimal frameworks so that it could liven up, to give transitional deadlines and other things. On the other hand, you have an unregulated area that causes a lot of lawyers and my colleagues a lot of misunderstandings, which is a question of companies, companies, companies with limited legal liability, and that's no problem, it exists in the world. The problem is if you don't regulate it properly, then it'll be interpreted backwards, and then there's an open space for gray operation. You currently have about 14 foreign firms in Serbia, lawyers, who without any regulators working on our territory. Currently, Telecom is being sold by a certain group of lawyers, called Harrisons. They're strangers. How can that happen? Why isn't there a foreign lawyer in Serbia's territory a condition of reciprocity? You don't condition the reciprocity that a stranger can be a lawyer in our country only on condition that our lawyer can be in that country where that stranger is from. You don't put that anywhere, but you're setting this stranger up with impossible conditions he'll never meet. You oblige him to pass a judicial exam in Serbia. How is that possible? Because someone wrote this to you, someone pointed out to you that you were submitting to the congregation, so that their private interests would be resolved. You haven't regulated the company issue, which is why there are no law firms regulated properly in this law. That should be regulated precisely. In the dilemma whether to delete the provision that there are law firms or to solve it properly, let's say the DSS MP group submitted an amendment where a more detailed regulation was given, because it was then less hunted in a blurry one. Then things are simpler. Remove from this law what is not necessary, which is burdensome, introduce what you must, including reciprocity, remember that we live in the time of electronic communication and that in Article 35, when it comes to a search of the attorney's office, can you imagine that someone can put their documentation on a USB or on a hard drive, put it in their pocket and take it away. Is that what you wrote, and is that supposed to be possible? No, you don't care, we live probably in 1920 and someone, not in 2011. So this is a catastrophic law. Be people to yourself and be responsible for your profession and read it carefully, to take half an hour to take a break, grab your head and say, "I'm sorry, we were joking." This can't be, this is pure terror. I'm sorry, you have to withdraw this law. The ministry must withdraw this law, and if it does not withdraw it, I suggest that all MPs in this House vote all amendments that are proposed here and that this law destroys it and re-propose it, because this is absolutely impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53163	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Jankovic, and then by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53164	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, reading the Bill on Lawyerry, and as I am a lawyer by profession myself, I can say that it is mostly acceptable for me as a lawyer, as well as for the entire Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, who will vote in favour of such a bill in the day of voting, I hope, with some corrections that will follow by accepting the proposed amendments by fellow Members. First of all, I would stress that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the independence and independence of the lawyer. This is important to mention in order to get the right picture of the importance and meaning of the lawyerry in society at all. It is particularly good to pass such a law because it is closer to regulating legal action, and conditions for dealing with it, which will contribute to the further development of this independent profession, which in most modern countries, including, of course, the Republic of Serbia, is the bearer of advanced ideas that ultimately lead to development and society in general. For this reason, I want to look back on the status of lawyers in the Republic of Serbia, and thus to present to our public what this is really about and how it was in the real world. In the eyes of our public, the lawyer is quite ill-quoted, primarily for reasons that lawyers have been represented for years back as some kind of foreign body in the country, as something that does not respect the rules of conduct and the principles of work on which the rest of the state rests. We have experienced an additional poor connotation in the adoption and, later, the postponement of the application of the Ministry of Finance regulation on the obligation to introduce fiscal cash registers. It is simply difficult to explain to the public the reasons why one profession opposes all power. This is not because of the reason to avoid paying taxes, to get into a more favourable position than others, or something else, but rather because it is contrary to the EU standards that we seek. A lawyer's secret is a postulate that has to be respected because it's in the interest of both lawyers and their parties. Of course, there are always other mechanisms for the state to verify the level of income of lawyers. Lawyers are organized through regional law offices. This has proved to be a good principle of organization, and I think I should stay in the future. I would also like to point out that I support my colleague Srdjan Mikovic's amendments, which he has invested in this law, which, in my opinion, are improving this good bill. This represents not only my position, but also my Regional Law Chamber of Kragujevac's position, and I am passing it on to you this way. As far as the conditions for enrolment in the register of lawyers are concerned, I am of the opinion that the suspension of the application of Article 6 of Item 1 of the Law, which provided for the conditions for enrolment in the register of lawyers for at least two years from the termination of the judicial post, if the candidate was in the post, was good. In terms of the reforms implemented by the judiciary, whose final completion is expected, it would be good for the application of this condition to be delayed for a shorter period of time. I'm going to make a parallel with the adopted bankruptcy law, also in this home. In fact, I support the full introduction of compulsory insurance against professional responsibility, as provided for by Article 37. It's a bill of law. This type of insurance with some insurance company can only bring additional security to both lawyers and all their parties. This type of insurance has proved to be very good in bankruptcy proceedings because it provides a really large type of security for all participants in court proceedings. As for the introduction of law school institutions, and the passing of legal exams, we fully support it. This is because it is not so rare for public opinion to enroll almost exclusively graduate lawyers who could not become judges and prosecutors or find another job within the profession. That's just not true. In this way, such doubts will be met because expertise will have to be shown in one such test. In the end, I have to repeat that law is really one special profession. She's pulling a lot of positive stuff with her. Here, above all, I note the development of advanced thoughts, the development of civil society and the development of solidarity. It's rare that a profession has such a developed solidarity mechanism as a lawyer's profession. That's why I'm really proud of her. In all of this, with the adoption of, I think, some justified criticisms of some of the provisions of this bill, I call on all MPs to vote in the day of voting for both the law on law and the other laws of the set of judicial laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53165	Five minutes and ten seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic, followed by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53166	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Cosic, these legal projects that are very important in front of us, not only because, first of all, of the law on law enforcement, not only because of the development of a constitutional norm that defines legal profession and law enforcement as an independent and independent service, I stress the service, not an act of action, but a service that provides legal assistance to citizens and legal persons. Therefore, not only for this reason, but also for the reason of adapting our legal order to what the World Trade Organisation prescribes in the area of liberalisation of the market for services, and in this respect the provisions of the laws relating to the work of foreign lawyers; these laws are, firstly, important because of the implementation of the national justice system reform strategy. It is through this prism that I observe the law on lawyers and the law on notaries, i.e. public notaries, law on enforcement and security, etc. Advocacy, as few other actions, professions or services, has one specificity that touches all areas of life of legal entities, whether they are citizens of natural persons, whether they are companies or other legal entities, other legal entities, practically, to express myself figuratively, from birth, through life and existence, to death. During history, our national Serbian history, but also the history of Europe, and in Anglo-Saxon and continental law, lawyers made a major contribution not only to professional but also to political thoughts and political activities. I will remind you that of the 44 presidents of the United States, 25 were lawyers, that the leaders and leaders of the French revolution were lawyers, and that in our history, lawyers contributed significantly to the creation of social relations both in the 19th and 20th centuries. But let's go back to what's important through these laws. What do you get? One more regulated system of protection of the legal interests of citizens, legal persons and other legal entities is obtained first. There is a higher degree of independence and principles, a literal implementation of the principle of self-regulatory law in certain areas of legal function. The quality of these laws is, among other things, in what is the prehistory of the adoption and determination of these laws. In a year, two or three of these laws were held in public debate, in one expert debate in front of law offices, as well as in front of other professional bodies and professional bodies. I stress, in the premises of this parliament, there were, I think, two quality sessions at which the representatives of this esnaf, these professions, so, the Serbian Bar Association, MPs, the Ministry of Justice, representatives of the Faculty of Law, etc. My impression is that this law on law of law is leaving one model that has existed with us and, to put it this way, has brought the law of law down to one form of fischtal one system that has been overcome in continental European law, and far more in Anglo-Saxon, what exists in Great Britain and the United States. I will not repeat what my colleagues have already said about enrolment in the Bar, passing judicial exams and all other conditions that are generally known. I would stand out as the quality of this law professionally perfecting a lawyer through a law firm. Therefore, in one overall context of lifelong learning, lifelong training and education, this norm of professional training of lawyers should also be observed – through continuous training and constant search for new achievements of legal science, legal practices, etc. Ensuring a lawyer out of professional responsibility is an extremely important thing. Therefore, it is also possible for lawyers to be able to conclude contracts with insurance companies on collective insurance against professional responsibility. This institute protects the rights of legal entities and citizens and legal entities against any damage that a lawyer may do by his unconscious work to his client or party. As for the form of an organization of lawyers, we have a similar system here. As far as I'm aware, there have been some controversy that, apart from self-employed law enforcement, a joint law firm and a law-abiding partner society, an institute, as it exists in some Western, in the first place, of Anglo-Saxon systems, of action societies. But to my satisfaction, such ideas are not accepted. That, in my opinion, would be one vulgar commercialization of this profession. The law on public records is another very important law. After 80 and a few years, if we consider that in 1930, during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, a Law on Notaries that existed for a short time was passed, not even in the entire territory of the then state, so public notation by model as it exists in the countries in the region, which publicly introduced public notaries or notaries as a form of providing professional assistance and as a substitution of certain forms of judicial, conditionally said, authorities, or court proceedings. To the notaries, i.e. by introducing public notebooks into our legal system, we will first and foremost disbursement courts from certain cases that overload the work of courts through both public-book records and through public-book certificates, as well as those types of extraparate proceedings that are not exclusively in the domain of judicial authority and the conduct of proceedings by courts. Unfortunately, we are the last country in the region to introduce and pass this law on public notaries or notaries, but it is important that through the existence of public notebooks in this way, as prescribed and proposed by this bill, we will have one trusted public function that will be entrusted to persons or persons of trust, and based on the assessment and conditions prescribed by this law. When the first hundred notes are appointed, the Chamber of Public Notes will also form, with a certain degree of self-regulation and independence in certain domains of the existence of this important institute. What will notaries do when this law comes into practice? In the first place, these are the agreements on the property relations of spouses, out-of-marriage property agreements, agreements on the share of joint assets of spouses or out-of-marriage partners, etc. Therefore, the availability of immovable property, sales contracts, gift contracts, as well as legal transactions – mortis causa, therefore, assembly and overa of wills or legacy. Apart from the public-book records, as we heard from Minister Malovic, the important job of the notebook will be public-book records. This will facilitate and speed up procedures in the area of trade and economic law, which is, for example, the minutes from the founding assembly or other assembly of a company or any other form of organization of economic operators. So, except that citizens and legal persons will have more effective and faster protection and, apart from discharging the courts of these cases, notaries will certainly contribute to Serbia's economic bonus being increased, due to the speed of action. I recently had a chance to approve one of my clients' IDs in a neighboring country, since I'm a lawyer. The document was made up and certified by a public notary and it was all completed in less than an hour, so the whole procedure, which here, given that the overa of signatures on founding documents, on statutes, etc., has to be scheduled in courts, would take much longer. Therefore, notaries or public notebooks will allow for a more efficient procedure, faster protection of the legal interests of citizens and legal persons, and it is certain that through this law and indirect effects will be an improvement of one mile for foreign investment and business and foreign companies and in general legal entities. The third very important law that we are discussing today, and in the coming days we will discuss, and in particular the amendments that, as you know, have been submitted in large numbers, this set of laws has been submitted, in my information, close to 600 amendments, to the draft law on enforcement and security. Here in the security and enforcement process, unfortunately, we have one grim statistic that says the duration of the executive procedure in the Republic of Serbia is about 260 days, and the average duration of the executive procedure in EU countries is 60 days. As an implication of such slow enforcement and in general enforcement proceedings is the fact that before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and we heard this from Minister Malovic, there are 3,500 concepts in total, of which 1,034 concepts refer to the procedure of enforcement, and in the context of violation of the right to a fair trial, i.e. violation of the right to trial within a reasonable time. The mechanisms, institutes and sub-institutions contained in this law, which I am not going to particularly absorb now, are such that they will enable in any case faster enforcement, i.e. the legal protection of all legal entities, and first of all natural persons, legal persons as creditors in these court proceedings. So, through the Institute of Delivery, the way in which the submissions are delivered, written, through the elimination of possibilities, the search for exceptions in certain legal situations, etc., we will have one elaborate mechanism that will allow the execution, as a crown of postpartum procedure, to be such that citizens do not wait for executions per year, two or three days, as has been the case so far. Dear Minister, we support all these legal projects and express our satisfaction with the quality of these legislative proposals, the quality of the public debate that has been conducted and I am sure this will make our legal system much better and protect our citizens in achieving their rights to courts and other state bodies much faster. I thank everyone again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53167	13 minutes and 30 seconds of MP time have been used. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. After him, if he finishes his duties, Natasa Vukkovic's MP, and Maja Lausevic's national envoy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53168	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman, respected Mrs Malovic, are present today, I can say freely, the revolutionary laws in the area of the judiciary, the laws that will best end the reform of the judiciary that we started several years ago and the laws on which our legal system will draw close to the EU system. I say these laws are revolutionary for the simple reason that the law on public notebooks and the law on enforcement and security is introduced by brand-new institutes that existed in one part of us before World War II, but from World War II to this day they haven't. So, for the first time since World War II, we are introducing a system of notaries into our legal system. I want to publicly commend the Ministry of Justice because in the process of passing these laws it has introduced as a practice that laws are subject to public and professional discussion at over 50 round tables, if we add up all the round tables on which these two laws have been discussed, which I have also mentioned to the law on law of law. That public debate was also outside the assembly. We also had several round tables in the Serbian Parliament. I also want to commend the Justice Ministry for introducing another principle, which is that people who are professional and people who represent a particular profession were made by most of the people in working groups who made these laws. The working group on the draft law on law on law was headed by Serbian Attorney General Dragoljub Djordjevic and were representatives of other regional legal chambers. It can be seen by the text of this law that the expression is absolutely of interest and the need for attorney rather than the interest and need of political parties. At the head of the working group on making public notebook laws he was our professor at Dragor Hiber Law School and he made a really immeasurable contribution to the drafting of these laws, and he allowed us both with his knowledge and his energy to get a modern system of notaries, similar to the system of notaries that exists in the European Union. For me, of course, as a lawyer, today is the most important law on law enforcement. The Law on Lawyership is before us, I can say freely, absolutely guaranteeing the independence and independence of the lawyer as a profession. The bill allows Serbia's Bar Association to regulate relations, rights and obligations between lawyers with its statutes and that lawyers, who are exclusively elected by the Assembly of the Bar of Lawyers, can absolutely decide on the development of their professions on their own. I think that in a good way, some relationship between the state that has transferred part of its public authority based on the Constitution on law enforcement as an independent and independent profession has been found in this law. There's been a lot going on here that this law is disrupting some of the basic principles on which there's a lawyer in Europe. I simply want to say this is not true, because according to the assessment of the European Associations of Lawyers, this bill respects all the basic principles of European lawyerry and all the relevant rules at European and international level adopted by the European and world association of lawyers. It's not exactly the thesis that was heard here this morning that the state is interfering in any way with the work of law enforcement. I repeat once again, only lawyers in their assembly choose their own organs, so that the influence of the state on law enforcement does not exist absolutely. There was also a provision that stipulates that two years after performing judicial functions and functions in the administration, people will not be able to be entered into the order of lawyers. I think this provision is best spoken of by real career lawyers writing this law. I support one such provision, and I believe that it, which is in Article 6, should not be changed, because it is in principle necessary to protect the lawyer against unfair competition. I also don't want it to be understood that any of us or any of us from the DS, or anyone in the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, have put this provision in law in order to punish in some way all those who were not elected in the last choice for judges and prosecutors. Absolutely this provision is not directed against them. I have submitted an amendment delaying the application of this provision for a year, in which we will allow all those who wish to enter the ranks of law enforcement, and have performed some judicial function in the past period, to do so immediately after the adoption of this law. One of the, as I said, revolutionary laws, the law on public notebooks, for the first time since World War II, introduces notaries into our system. In our tradition we had previous notaries, we had foreseen through Dušan's code, through the Civil Code, as the minister said in the opening statement, in 1930 the Law on Public Libraries in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was passed. Today Serbia is the only country in the region that does not have a system of notaries and, practically, by passing this law, we allow citizens to be able to make their rights and interests easier and get absolute legal certainty when they make any legal work. Notara will be enough, much more today is a counter in courts in municipalities and cities in Serbia, much more than a counter in municipalities, municipal administrations. Notara will be on every 25,000 or 30,000 citizens per one, so in each municipality, we will have a sufficient number of notaries in each city, or public notebooks. There won't be any more traffic and there won't be no pushing in the courts, where our citizens spend hours trying to verify their statement or verify a photocopy of a document. It'll be an ugly practice for us. Now everyone will be able to go to their notary and verify, without any delay, any document or conclusion or any agreement on the availability of their property. The notaries themselves will serve to bring legal certainty and that is the main objective of this law, because it is those who can help and advise citizens when they verify and conclude contracts, and they guarantee by their knowledge that the content of these contracts is absolutely in accordance with the law. We've had a lot of trouble with the traffic of immobility. We're all aware of that, various fake contracts and triple sale of apartments. It will all be gone when we introduce a notary system in Serbia. What's important is that we understand both ourselves and those who will run for notaries, and the Ministry, which is that in some subsequent period until the application of this law we should adopt such sublegal acts that will make it possible for only high-level notaries to be elected, those who have, as the law says, law school and passed a judicial exam and five years of work experience and perhaps more importantly, high-moral citizens. Every notary must behave in its work as well as highly ethically and must protect the reputation of a profession that we can freely say is as respected as the judge's profession or the profession of a lawyer. Otherwise, the position of public notebooks is the most similar position of judges, but notaries are completely separate materially and financially from courts. The notaries will exercise public authority. These powers are conferred on them by the Court and the State and must be treated in accordance with this very responsibly and entirely impartially with regard to politics and any influence. The second revolutionary law passed today by the Assembly is the law on enforcement and security, which represents a full reform of the judiciary and which is rounding up the reform of procedural law with us. I think it is clear to every citizen in every company in this country that the law on execution that we have so far not that it has not been effective enough, but that no one has been able to charge for years some debt established by the court verdict or to exercise any right that has been established by any court ruling. So I'm glad that today we're not talking about amendments to the law on enforcement, because it's impossible to fix the bad system we had, but we're fully introducing a new system and we're passing a whole new law. The new system is being introduced parallelly, let me say, execution. We'll also have private perpetrators and bailiffs. Someone said today that private contractors are debtors. There's absolutely no basis for such a thesis. They are not private contractors, private contractors serve to enable every citizen who wants to exercise his or her right and who is determined in the fastest possible way. They can't be debt exorcisors, but there are very clear defined legal conditions that one can become an enforcer. He needs to have a law degree, have an executive exam, have experience. Public perpetrators will have a stronger responsibility and will have absolute control and control by the executioner's chamber, by the court and by the ministry. So far, the courts have not responded in any way that they do not execute citizens' judgments and that citizens cannot exercise their rights. Now, private contractors, if they do anything to harm the parties, will answer their personal property for the damage caused by the parties, and will be obliged to pay and insurance, so that citizens can be compensated through insurance. In addition to the fact that it was not possible to fix the system so far, we had to introduce a whole new system, speak, and data that is very accurate. According to research, the debt settlement rate in the execution process is 1.16% in our country. Therefore, only 1.16% are charged out of the total debts established by Serbian verdicts. What is the objective of this law and what we can expect from relevant data from the countries of the environment, and this parallel enforcement system exists not only in developed EU countries, such as the Netherlands, but also exists in Hungary, both in Bulgaria and Macedonia, we can expect the calming rate to be at least 40%. That's how it was, from 30% to 40%, in other countries. I hope we can be better than the surrounding countries and make that rate much higher. counterpart Vlatko Ratkovic said something about how many days the execution takes in Serbia. According to the 2010 figures given by the World Bank, the average execution takes 365 days if you are able to carry out the verdict at all, as these cases are not completed, they are on average 422 days, and those who are 260 days, as counterpart Ratkovic said. What is our goal, and what is certain that we can achieve this law, is that everyone collects their claim and achieves its right guaranteed by a court ruling and by a second decision no later than two months. For this reason, I call on opposition MPs, not only the ruling majority's MPs, to vote in favour of these laws that we are talking about today because they are real and exclusively to the benefit of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53169	14 minutes and five seconds of MP time have been used. National MP Natasa Vuckovic will be given a word when she finishes her duties outside the session room. Now she has the word of the folk MP Maja Lausevic, followed by the folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korać.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53170	Dear representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us with the cruel laws of the area of justice. In the first place, I would refer to the draft law on enforcement and security. We are witnessing the lengthy duration of the executive proceedings and thus the inability to bring long-term litigation after obtaining a judicial decision cannot be effectively executed in the executive procedure. In addition to this claim, many concepts addressed both to the Constitutional Court and to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. We have a whole new system ahead of us. In the first place, I would refer to the brilliantly resolved provisions in the enforcement process and the paper on delivery to actually the executive debtor. What's the practice so far? So far, it has been a practice for the executive debtor to be in a more comfortable position than the executive trustee, which is inadmissible in itself. So, from now on, this law provides, which I welcome as an excellent idea, that delivery be made to the address of the legal person's seat registered in the register, i.e. the address, residence or residence of a natural person registered with the ID authority, means in the SUP. In this way it is a sublime idea which is a bit of a future topic of thinking, so it should also be regulated by the law on residence and residence, but I think this is a great idea. Private perpetrators shall be introduced. I also welcome the elaborate part of the law relating to obtaining a statement of property. Until now, however, it has not been sufficiently precise. I have to admit, the creditors have so far been playing Sherlock Holmes to find the means and the subject of execution to settle their claims made on the basis of a judicial and executive court ruling. There are many new institutes and solutions ahead of us. I'll just focus on the fact that there is a special procedure to settle claims based on utility services that also occur very often in practice. I would say that the Institute of Public Registration and this new law that is before us, that is, notary, has a very long tradition in European continental law. The Latin model of literature is the most widespread in the world. The term Latin notebook is a shortened definition of the concept of a modern notebook and contains the centuries-old tradition of principles and rules based on impartiality and through which the public notary received public trust. Today almost all coastal countries and countries in the region have this public notary institute or, otherwise called, notaries. Also, more and more Yugoslav republics have passed laws on notaries and notaries' powers and duties. The Kingdom of Yugoslavia, as counterpart Konstantinovic said, introduced the post of public notary of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1930 through the Law on Notary of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which was abandoned after World War II. However, today not only because of the representation of this institution in comparative justice systems, but because of the reasons identified, we are returning this institute to the legal life of our country and not only because of this, but because of legal certainty above all. I must point out that, for example, in Novi Sad, there are five officials who are doing business, which is a truly inconclusive job despite their best wishes. What I would say in the end is that the special form and content of these public records also facilitate the work of the courts and other state bodies, and reduce their need for intervention in the legal protection process. In the end, there were many words in the current search in the principle of the Law on Lawyerry. I thank the representatives of the proposings who have incorporated, together with counterpart Ivkovic, the amendment of the Vojvodina Bar of Lawyers for this bill. I call on all MPs to support these legislative proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53171	Four minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. The word is a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac, followed by the MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53172	The President-in-Office, honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, at the very beginning, I will remind you that this assembly adopted the National Strategy for Justice Reform in May 2006. The launch of this reform was necessary because our judiciary, according to the perception of citizens and according to the research that was carried out, was very badly assessed, and as inefficient, poorly organised, unobstructed, corrupt. For development, for progress in every respect and for the democratisation of society, a well-organised and efficient judiciary is needed. It is common knowledge that every man is struck by injustice, and even more so when he tries to correct it before the authorities and comes to justice. This lasts suddenly or doesn't even happen when justice and justice are not on the same side. For these reasons, in the previous period, there was a very intense work on reforming the justice system in our country. Positive results have already been recorded, but this is a process that lasts and requires the exceptional engagement of many entities, especially the Ministry of Justice and Ministers. Today's laws are an integral part of this reform and are therefore of great importance to further improve the justice system and democratisation of the whole society. It's like the first draft law on law enforcement because it's also part of the justice system. The process of drafting the text of this law was attended by prominent experts, but a very broad debate was carried out, which I think is very good. Interested subjects had the opportunity to make their remarks, to make suggestions and suggestions and a lot of them were appreciated. I think it's very important for the quality of the text that we have before us that such a broad debate is being held with a number of round tables and in various other ways. There were several reasons for making this bill. The current Law on Lawyerry was passed in 1998 at the SFRJ Assembly. The country no longer exists, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in 2006, which prescribes new principles and defines law-making in a new way. For these reasons, it is necessary to pass a new law, which would regulate the law as an independent and independent service to provide legal assistance to citizens and legal persons, in order to protect their rights and interests with an emphasis on independence and independence. Another reason is the need to align the regulatory framework of the Republic of Serbia with international documents governing the area of law enforcement. Finally, as the Republic of Serbia is in the process of joining the World Trade Organisation, which is one of the conditions of liberalisation in the domain of services and regulation of the conditions under which foreign lawyers can carry out their legal affairs in the Republic of Serbia, it was necessary to join the draft law. There's already been a lot of words about the content of the law, so now I'm just going to stick to what's supposed to be a newspaper. In order to meet the goal, the bill detaileds the whole matter of law enforcement, but the paper envisions: firstly, the conditions for enrolment in the directory of foreign citizens' lawyers and how they carry out their legal activity in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The second paper is the obligation of a lawyer to ensure professional responsibility and give conditions and the way it will be implemented. The important news is the introduction of a new form of law enforcement. In addition to an independent practice of law enforcement and a joint law firm, the establishment of a law firm is envisaged, which is registered exclusively in the directory of law firms run by Serbia's Bar Association. In a new way, the authorities of the Bar Association are regulated, but I'm not going to stick to it because there's already been enough words. Discipline responsibility and termination of the right to practice law have also been regulated in more detail in a different way than in the current law. This is important because it gives hope that these provisions will come to life, unlike the previous period, which would bring more responsibility to clients in the conduct and conduct of lawyers. For example, and so far it's been prescribed to look like a law firm, which, in the case of where I come from, I can say it's not respected. Not only are the companies that were just put on the building, but the lighting commercials and the entire panorama outside, so it really violates the reputation of law enforcement, and I think it's very important to put order into that area. A significant paper is that the bill provides for Serbia's Bar Association to establish a law firm, as a special body tasked with providing permanent training for lawyers, legal practitioners, graduates and persons employed in law offices and societies, and perfecting the theoretical and practical knowledge and skills necessary for professional, independent, independent, effective and ethical lawyers. I had an opportunity 15 years ago, when I started law enforcement, because 20 years before that, I worked in the administration, to face older colleagues who were at the level of knowledge when they started doing the law. They didn't follow the new regulations, and it was read in the paper. I'm not saying it was most, but there were cases like that. After 10 years, I figured out what it was, what it was, what the job was, and there's not much time. Such systematic organised training of lawyers and training is very important because it encourages lawyers to follow new regulations and new trends in work. A lawyer's specialty is foreseen, which I also think is very good. Lawyers are forced to deal with all areas of law. Few can afford, especially in smaller places, a luxury to specialize only in a particular area. When it is governed by law and when it is in application and when it is organised through the Bar of Lawyers specialization and beliefs are issued, then it will be easier to implement it in practice and we will not have to negotiate with each other who will be the authority to deal with it, but will know who specializes in what. A lawyer's exam is scheduled as a new special condition for enrolment in the register of lawyers, which consists of checking the knowledge of domestic and international regulations and legal acts relating to the law and the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers. All of the above aims to restore dignity to the legal profession and restore the trust of citizens and legal entities in it, as well as to the entire judiciary. The second is the law on public records. A history of unsuccessful attempts has already been made to bring this institute to life after World War II, so this is practically a whole new law that regulates this matter in a new way. A democratic society, based on the rule of law, requires legal certainty and a certainty of doing legal work. The main objectives to be achieved through the application of this law are legal certainty in legal traffic, the dispensation of courts from businesses that are not directly related to the proceedings of the administration's authorities and the provision of legal persons and citizens to exercise their rights more easily and faster. In order to apply the conditions and to live in practice, this law is intended to apply only in the middle of next year, when all assumptions for its application are fulfilled. The third is the draft law on enforcement and security. The Implementing Procedure Act was adopted in 2004, with effect from February 2005. In practice, it has been shown that the solutions under this law are not adequate and that the enforcement procedures continue to take even a few years, with an uncertain outcome. This bill provides for new solutions in the enforcement and security process that will enable citizens and legal persons to be more effective. The fourth is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. It is known that insufficient accommodation capacity for the execution of prison sentences and that there has been an obsolescence in the earlier period, and an increase in the number of persons deprived of liberty is evident. Significant efforts have been made to correct the situation. Another problem is the insufficient number of employees in the Directorate for Criminal Penalty and the reduction of those currently in force. Amendments and additions to the Law ensure that the number of employees is increased, in order to ensure the safety and safety of both employees and persons who are in prison. In addition, the amendments refer to the provisions that have practically created problems, in order to remove them. As a newspaper, a new surveillance department is envisioned, then the possibility of the security service being equipped with official dogs, the law and conditions under which the security service can carry arms and a series of other details and a series of these changes that will allow for more effective enforcement of criminal sanctions. Given that all these laws are passed in order to end judicial reform and raise the reputation of the entire judiciary and, in particular, as I said, this law on law on law enforcement, and in order to facilitate the exercise of the rights of our citizens and legal persons, MEPs from the list of ZES will vote for these laws in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53173	13 minutes of MP time was used. The People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz has the word. After him, the Messenger of the people, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53174	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, the SPO MPs closely followed all reforms in the area of the judiciary and I think that because of some unwarranted public pressure, and we agreed that the situation was inherited during the government's term and during the time while Ms. Malovic's minister of justice was disastrous, every move that went in some better direction faced the edges of those who criticised the situation, but also wanted to keep it bad. I mean, quite objectively, not because I'm part of the ruling majority, but simply because 95% of the provisions of all the legal resolutions of this ministry that have entered the Assembly procedure for MEPs have been absolutely acceptable and our intention seems to have been absolutely good and we recognize good intentions in all the laws that are in the procedure today. Of course, in the day that we discuss amendments and in the discussion of details, we will present some of our thoughts, between two or three good solutions, which is the most optimal solution, but what we can say at the beginning as a general assessment of what we have seen and studied in detail, that these four very good laws are very good. As for the law on public records, since we may be the only ones in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who hold little more to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, to this European right-wing Serbia, before World War II, we are very pleased that Serbia is returning to its pre-communist foundations with this law, to catch up with Europe and with the modern world. Indeed, it was pointless, 1001 jobs that did not belong to that jurisdiction, in a narrow sense of the words, to put in the jurisdiction of the courts and to burden them needlessly anyway. The things given in this bill are very good. As far as the law on barrage is concerned, we think it really was during the public debate, there were 50 and some round tables, a panel discussion, professional discussions, and this law was working, it seems to us, people of profession and all the newspapers that were presented in the law on law on law of law, and what my colleagues explained today, are absolutely acceptable to us. The need for today's lawyerry is in spirit, but also in some European spirit and in the spirit of the introduction of all the newspapers that were necessary to introduce themselves into the law on law on law. I think it's a good thing that it makes it possible for sterling citizens to practice law in the given conditions, then what it takes for lawyers to educate, train, because what my predecessor said, that's true. Countless times, because I started my professional career as a lawyer, I met a small number of colleagues, but there was a colleague who, after a legal exam, believed me, did not follow the rules at all. The most common explanation was, I'll find out in the hallway from my colleagues, I'll ask the judge, etc. It's not a quality law enforcement business. The importance of attorneyship in our legal system is really great. Do not forget that a lawyer primarily helps the court, in addition to protecting the interests of his party and helping his parties, a good and correct lawyer, a constructive lawyer, a professional lawyer, helps the court most, and thus helps the entire judiciary and thus contributes to the regulation of legal relations on its part in a single society. It seems to us that it is good that what has already taken place in practice in recent years, that there are joint law offices, law firms, that this law is more precisely regulated and that it is good and that we pass an attorney's exam, because let's not forget that this is about verifying the knowledge of domestic and international regulations relating to the attorney and code of ethics of lawyers. Of course, we're very much still mentally in this one-party system and of course the one-party system has taken out everything and everything, including all sorts of lawyers who were attorneys of the state and attorneys of the secret service who finished the most dirty jobs with the lawyer. On the other hand, we had lawyers who also held the one-party system to their profession, kept the honor of their profession, and fully adhered to the Code of Legal Ethics. Col. Srdjan Mikovic mentioned today with full respect Dragic Joksimovic and Nikola Djonovic, the defender of General Dragoljub Dragoljub Draža Mihailovic, the first antifascist in occupied Europe, who was convicted in a mounted Stalinist process, but the same fate later hit his defenders, and these were defenders who were also appointed by the court, and the lawyer chamber of Serbia and whose only sin was that they tried to show that in a mounted statistical process it was such a process and to defend and honor their profession, but also the life of the suspect. Of course, after that, Josip Broz Tito, in 1946 when traveling to the Adriatic, stopped at Cetinje and publicly delivered the verdict to lawyer Joksimovic and lawyer Nikola Djonovic, and unfortunately their fate was such that he could not avoid a tragic outcome. Because of the fact that Serbia has really high-quality lawyers, that there are lawyers who have large disputes and international courts, that there are specialised lawyers in all areas of the right, that there are really lawyers whose first association is with expertise, correctness and objectivity, that they fully comply with the code of ethics. What the SPO wants to see in future European Serbia, it wants to see lawyers who will fully respect the code of ethics, which will not be used by those dirty jobs that were present with us, especially in the 1990s, and that is why we look forward to the fact that one opposition party, LDP, will vote for these laws. We expected the rest of the opposition to give principled support to these laws, and, of course, in the debate in particular, to present their objections and explain their amendments, and by studying some amendments, I told myself that I would vote for them and that I would persuade the minister to accept them, because they seem to be well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53175	Eight minutes and 30 seconds of MP time were used. Time is available to the Parliamentary Group for Europe's Serbia for 10 minutes. National MP Zoran Babic has a word, followed by MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the famous reform of the judiciary, which has been assessed in the complete professional public as unconstitutional and very bad, is the initial stage of the collapse of Serbia's legal order. The judicial reform has managed to bring the full justice system into paralysis. The quality of the same is best discussed by Mr. Stefan Phil's presentation here in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the regrets and pucks that the international community has given us on the occasion of and on behalf of the team. In my humble opinion, the draft law on lawyership is the final act of a reform that will result in full privatisation of Serbia's judicial system. Article 67. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has been mentioned many times today, speaks of lawyering as an independent and independent service, as only an independent and independent lawyer can provide valid legal assistance to citizens and thus ensure that the Constitution of guaranteed legal assistance is implemented. However, this bill on law on law of law tends to settle the law so deeply that its foundations, independence and independence are thus practically questioned. The fact that in Article 2, like you, Madam Minister, in the opening statement, you said that lawyerry is independent and self-employed, is written, i.e. pro-forma and represents a purely clouding reality. The Serbian lawyer, as some colleagues have spoken, will celebrate 150 years of existence next year, as the first law on attorneys, which was called the Law on Lawmakers, was brought long ago in 1862, at the time of the reign of Prince Mikhail Obrenovic. The dissatisfaction of Serbia's vast majority of lawyers, and I will remind them of almost 7,500, lies in the fact that never before, for the almost 150 years of the country's tradition has dealt with the arrangement of the internal organisation of chambers and the way organs are elected in the chamber. These issues have always been regulated only by internal legal acts, or the statutes of the legal chambers. I believe that this bill on law on law of law is essentially a threat to the independence and independence of the lawyer, introduces a vague application of academic titles and the names of the type and level of study, does not define the duties of lawyers towards the party, does not interfere with professional training and specialisation of lawyers, the attorney's secret is inaccurately arranged and its reach is too liberalised, and that this bill does not allow the practice of law enforcement in a working relationship. Also, this bill of law on law is more about regulating the way of organising legal chambers, and less about setting clear limits for chambers in public authority. Our objections concern both the way and the composition of the commission to draft this bill on law on law enforcement. The request of the SNS is that the draft law on law on law of law be withdrawn from the assembly debate until the moment the lawyer is involved, through his regional, or fundamental, legal chambers, in the making of the law. Change your practice so far. It is necessary to respect all eight regional legal chambers in Serbia that should, or should, be given by one member of the Commission for draft laws. Or at least that the Commission, which made this bill, was elected to the Serbian Bar of Lawyers Assembly, not to be the political decision of the Serbian Attorney General's Board, as was the case now. If attorneyship under the Constitution is independent and independent service, as defined by the said member, then it must be left to organise its own internal appearance, its organs, the way they choose and the duration of the term of office. It is the basis of independence and independence, not that of a third party, even if it is a state, imposes on lawyers how their chambers will be arranged inside and how they will function. He cannot help but notice that the proposed law on attorney-law of law is reduced to one subservient service, unfortunately by taking this law practically to his authority to establish and organise legal action and to practically exercise control over the work of lawyers and lawyers' chambers of attorneys. Therefore, the question arises why would the Government of the Republic of Serbia have this interest, when nowhere in the world does any state affect the organisation and forms of the organisation of law offices and lawyers in general? I do not share the optimism of colleagues from the ruling majority, because if such a law is passed, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will impose on Serbian lawyers one, by purpose and by its own spirit, a bad law. Parliament's power is being misused, giving the assembly majority the opportunity to play with the Constitution, guaranteed independence and independence of the lawyer. In fact, this law allows the ignoring of Serbian lawyers and their full submission to the interests of oligarchy and large capital. In this last sentence, I think I've come very close to the objective of the proposed law on law enforcement. Because once, unfortunately, did the progeny regime, which was unable to stop life in Serbia, to minimise production, to re-indebted the country, do the regime that destroyed agriculture and the judiciary need free-minded and materially independent citizens? I think you're sending a message to these laws that you don't need such citizens. I can't help but mention another number of disputed provisions of this law, which is a member of 89, which is in fact a minor introduction of temporary measures in almost all legal chambers. The member of the dispute is scheduled for Serbia's Bar Association to call elections for all the authorities of the Serbian Bar within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, and that until the election of the Serbian Bar of Lawyers, the authority of those authorities will be exercised by the existing authorities of the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers. Therefore, this is how all the elections held by the primary legal chambers during 2010, which is unacceptable and which is why the SNS proposed to delete the disputed Article 89 to the amendment. A bill of law on law. Unlike the applicable law, the bill on law of law does not allow the practice of law enforcement in a working relationship. Why is that forbidden? I don't think he explained it. At least I couldn't see it. What's the point of a partner society as a legal person, if he can't hire lawyers and what's the difference between a partner society and a joint law firm? In the existing conditions, it is necessary to specialize in lawyers, and on the other hand, lawyers should provide legal assistance in different areas of law if they want to be competitors. Both requirements can only be met by organising large offices that have more lawyers. The laws of many states also allow the establishment of a law firm with limited responsibility, and foreign lawyers are represented, I think, in that form. Domestic partners should and can compete with foreign law offices only if they are allowed to have, or hire, a large number of lawyers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, in the end, someone may say that I am defending lawyers by giving these facts, but in fact I wish to defend the citizens of Serbia and their right to full legal protection by the Constitution of established rights and freedoms. The protection of these rights and freedoms, I say, can never be achieved by citizens if there is no independent and independent lawyership, which, as we all know, is a civil fluid that exists for hundreds of years without which no democratic and legal state can be imagined.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53177	Nine minutes and 45 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has been given by MP Sreto Peric, followed by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53178	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, these laws are not revolutionary, they are not quality, I don't know how many round tables, perhaps some and ovals, nothing helped us get to quality laws. Someone said they were revolutionary, not by anything. They are important and, Madam Minister, your intention may have been the best, but we will not judge and evaluate the intentions, we must appreciate what is offered to the MPs, or what will tomorrow be a positive rule of law. Interestingly, some fellow MPs spoke and praised, for example, the law on law of law and submitted a number of amendments to the same law. What's this about? Is that some obligation to praise the laws? I've been thinking about how to start this exhibit of mys, whether in the way I thought it should or perhaps by quoting some of the colleagues who spoke about these laws. It seems to me that colleague Novakovic has found the best measure. He tried in a funny way to show what all the shortcomings of these laws were, as a man who should vote for this law left out the real criticism of these laws, but now let's put it aside. In order to be able to discuss quality, let's say, the law on lawyerry, this was shown to you by our colleague Petar Jojic, who has been behind him for over 30 years working in law enforcement and other important affairs he has done, you have seen how many criticisms he has found and found at the expense of this law. Sometimes there is a need to discuss several legislative proposals in an integrated manner, and here it is not such a case at all, so I was wondering why? Here, four very important and important laws together in principle, so simply for reasons not to tell you for another time that your judicial reform is unsuccessful and that by introducing new institutes and institutions, once the dispersion of the authorities in the judiciary, you're trying to make those to whom these laws will apply confused that they don't know what it's about. I've tried one way, and it's hard to talk here for this time period, or in this time period, maybe individually, than I've tried to find common faults and disadvantages of these laws, and maybe that's how I'll try to talk about this. When it comes to the bill of law, I would ask one question, and you should not forget to answer when you take your word, and it refers to Article 6 of Section 10 of Title 1, in which a time period cannot be entered into the Bar, or cannot become a lawyer, and it says "for at least two years since the termination of the judicial or public office in the authorities of the administration, if the candidate has been in that office". The question here is, what is the status of those judges that have not been elected, what is their status from 1. January 2010 until today? I don't dispute, I don't criticise, I don't praise this provision, I'm just asking what is the practical importance of this provision, and what will happen to those who are not appointed judges, and they want to deal with the law? Is it this year and a half so far or how much later it's going to go, is that some kind of interference? It is likely that you too know that some of the legal chambers hastily increased membership in the Bar Association, likely to reach more significant financial resources, or perhaps even to be fenced since some new people arrived in the bar. Speaking of the Law on Lawyerry, I think it would be important and good to mention the Bar Association, which has decided to send assistance to Japan, to the extent that they could. I think that might lead to some other chambers and some other associations at all. It is bound through this law to further improve. It's necessary in every job, not just in law enforcement, but there are no concrete proposals and plans here how it can be done. From the discussion some colleagues conducted that in our legal chambers there are non-quality lawyers, probably there are such, there are also excellent lawyers, but that we have good lawyers best show the recent example where Belgrade Law School students managed to win first place in major competition. So we have professional and quality people, but the problem is, as you like to say, "we create legal frameworks for judicial reform", which we don't create good legal frameworks. It has never been a problem for us to have professional and quality personnel, but it is a problem to realize what we want and the way we want to implement this reform. Now someone has said that these four laws fully meet European standards. Now, if you are in the EU, it is not disputed that this is a goal for you, but it is more important for us that they meet the standards of Serbian citizens rather than European standards. That's basic to us. Instead of providing jobs, hiring Serbian citizens, you are trying to comment in front of each law or at the end of that comment to meet and meet European standards. Leave it and do something for the benefit of Serbian citizens, and when I say Serbian citizens, above all, I mean those to whom this law applies, but certainly Serbian citizens who will be someone's clients and who will address lawyers. When it comes to the draft law on public records, it is true that in our environment most countries have passed such a law and it is in application. We feel that this can be solved in another way and that this law is completely excessive. You said who took part in the work and who led the work group to draft the Law on Public Registration, but do you know, it is likely, that after members of that working group organized a lecture or, as someone calls them, specialized studies to pass exams for public notebooks, and that it was not taken into account whether those who completed that course and then passed that exam would be able to work as notebooks? Too much, according to the proposal for a Law on Public Registration, reserved rights for the Minister, this does not apply only to you, this applies to every minister of justice, starting with deciding who will be the public notebooks, to the precise proposal that 25,000 should be one public notary, or that each municipal place has one notary. We believe that this job, which will be carried out by public notebooks, was certainly and very successfully carried out by the court, as could the authorities of the state administration. There will be a question and a problem of the norm with the judges, primarily the judge of the basic court, because a large part of those cases that are now being conducted by the judges will become public notebooks' jurisdiction and then it will be very difficult to meet that standard. You probably didn't take care of that. When it's now said that we're waiting for orders in court or maybe the government's authority to verify some submissions, like it's not going to be here, like the tape's going to work. What's going to happen here? When it comes to the jurisdiction of public notebooks, it is likely that such or similar problems will arise there. The essence is not that, but only to create a large number of jobs for those who will become civil servants or officials, and probably owners of large plots and properties of our country will become some other people and those who cannot be employed in public functions because they are not favorites of the Boris Tadic regime, they will have to process the country and do some physical work. That's what this government is preparing for them. Apparently, it doesn't have much to do with these bill proposals, but actually the fact that we're talking about four very important laws now shows what your goal is and your intention is. Then, the proposal for a security law, it seems to me, is the essence of which is why five legislative proposals are discussed at the same time. I would not now elaborate on the details prescribed in this bill. The very fact that there will be private debt collection agencies, which so far has not been able to work successfully, points out, and maybe it's a good example presented today by colleague Daniela Lovrin, when one lawyer tries to disguise himself, turns a trail to the court's perpetrators, or those who make the call, seems to me now that there's a possibility that now that the extrajudicial perpetrators are hiring third parties without precise definition of who those third parties are, that it's going to be about the ones who break up first, they're going to rip out, and then they're going to determine identity. This is an attempt to legalize these debt seekers, which in no way could this and the serious state allow itself such a thing and allow it. Then, one approach to the justice system in this country, which we from the SRS are seriously criticising, is the fact that anyone suspected or requested by state authorities from the Republic of Croatia, or from BiH, in Serbia are ready to deliver, to arrest, to keep in extradition custody or whatever. Here's a recent example of war mayor Bozidar Vučurevic from Trebinj, where yesterday, in an attempt to cross the Karakaj bridge, was arrested, brought to the Supreme Court in Sabac and was assigned an extradition detention until 18 days. Does anyone wonder, is the regime of Boris Tadic and himself headed by the regime wondering – and what about those unsuccessful attempts to process Ejup Ganic, Tihomir Purda, Ilija Jurisic, Divjak and many others? No, it does not matter at all, it is important that at every moment the judicial authorities, or already others, it can also be the Ministry of Police, deliver those sought by the Croatian state or perhaps BiH. Is there any end to this humiliation of your citizens or Serbs at all, or do you think you're going as long as they ask for any face, you will fulfill such obligations? The legal proposals we are talking about today for the SRS are not acceptable and we cannot vote for these proposals in the voting day. He's got a number of amendments. We don't think you'll accept them, at least to the extent that they might change something in these laws. If that doesn't happen, we certainly can't support these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53179	12 minutes and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. The time available to the parliamentary group is 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53180	I'll never get used to there being 19 points three or four search groups, common principle and unique or whatever it's called, but I can figure out that there's one newspaper, although it's not revolutionary, that now in a joint search you have a bill, for example. on road transport, you have guarantees contracts, you even have agreements within the same group of laws to be discussed. There are shops where soap and bread are held together, but in such shops bread is not bought. Whether or not an impact target is allowed for example. Tomorrow we need to talk about seven extremely important financial laws within the same time, and does today deserve this kind of commendation to revolutionary and new laws, even if it is notation and enforcement and security, that in the same time we are talking about five points of the agenda? You show that either the laws aren't good enough, because they can't withstand serious criticism, which I will prove, or you prove that you don't care so much about the public court and getting to know the public about what's going on with them. Is the legal profession in this country as a legal profession in America called a published profession? Is she, like in Russia today, a privileged profession in which you enjoy entering, depends not only on lawyers, but also on us legislators and those who write the law? The truth is always somewhere in the middle, for example. in the middle of that Russian drive, the currently popular legal profession, we're talking about both law enforcement and notation, where people are happy to enter this profession, because it allows them to gain security within themselves because they have the power to defend their views. I ask you to consider how important it is for people today to be able to defend their position and that there can be institutions that can defend their views and that can defend their interests. If this profession is privileged in terms of profit, it can't be a general definition again. Some in terms of financial power, politics and some other powers of this profession have indeed created a privileged profession in which they make a great living. Others who don't want to get into that kind of powerful circles barely make ends meet. It is up to us to help defend the honor of this profession by allowing them to have good laws. With progress, in terms of achieving the conditions for courts to dissipate, I will call the Law on Public Records. Yeah, we really needed one of these laws. However, when I make remarks and failures that are evident in this law, I wonder who I should address? If I haven't been able to convince Mrs. Malovic in my time when we were talking about court experts that some amendments to the SNS should be adopted, now I'm really wondering where are the other powers that decide on this? I'll talk about the citizens. When does the work of a public notebook stop? You didn't define it well with this law. Yes, this law should relieve courts and, to a large extent, determine both the jurisdiction and the organisation of public records, but if you write only that these are provisions under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, that is to say, you should specify that the public notary's activity ceases to be fulfilled not only in terms of age pension, because that provision is both unclear and inaccurate, but also discriminatory. Is this what you wanted to prejudge possible solutions in the laws that will determine the conditions for retirement? Maybe, but that's not enough justification. It just has to be precisely defined that it's for example. when a man is 63 years old, or a woman is 58 years old and at least 20 years of retirement, when a man is 65 years old, or a woman is 60 and at least 15 years of insurance. I'm not going to detail it, but I'm going to explain that you would pay attention to these remarks, that this law could really be better. Are you aware that the proposal that you made to determine only age pensions is contrary to Article 21. The Constitution? That member of the Constitution prescribes that before the Constitution and the law, all are equal, in paragraph 3, that any discrimination is prohibited, both directly and indirectly, on any basis, and particularly on the basis of race, gender, etc. In order to avoid these issues and possible different interpretations that the ministry will later issue, it is unacceptable to allow discrimination between men and women, because this constitution does not allow, and many laws have passed special provisions that leave no place for dilemmas which you have opened with the proposed solution set out in Article 24. The Labour Act, Article 175, paragraph 1, point 2, stipulates that the employment relationship ceases when an employee turns 65 years of life and at least 15 years of insurance training, if the employer and employees do not agree differently. This "if" opens the space for you to apply in this law the solutions that exist in the Law on Judges, in Article 59, where without discriminatory access it is established when the judge stops working. I'm sure you know that when he turns 65 or 40 years old, he's a law enforcement guard. Extraordinaryly, at the request of the President of the Court's High Council, the judge can extend his working life for another two years, with his consent. So it is more than clear that it is inadmissible to adopt the solution that you have proposed, and we have proposed an amendment – when one public notary ceases to act, it should be defined in a way that it does not separate men and women from the length of the working century, or create an inequality between this profession, the public-book and, for example, the judge. You haven't defined exactly what the conditions are for doing this job. Because you have not defined the higher education of the second degree as the Law on Higher Education and authentic interpretation that does not know the unique concept – a graduate university, simply, you did not build it into the law. That is why it is necessary to specify the completed degree of law school studies, just as it is defined for enrolment in the law firm. For example, we've specified some solutions for you, and I hope you'll read them carefully, that you should call it equal to the academic name master, so it's said that that's enough as one of the conditions for the appointment of notaries. So, a degree in law school, with the acquired calling masters by a new, or graduated lawyer according to earlier regulations. This will simply lead to the harmony of what is called the entire legal system. Now that we've defined the school's equipment for this activity, could we have afforded ourselves the luxury of depriving highly educated experts in this particular activity? So, the conditions that are prescribed, I think, are solid. But should you rule out someone who has spent 65 years of his life and obtained a condition for retirement, should he be automatically excluded as someone with such knowledge, experience and expertise, and that he can no longer do this job just because he is 65 years old? Is the state of Serbia, which has only 6.5% of the population with university degrees and who threatens to become a country that has more pensioners than employees, able to afford this? I really think that the exceptions, which otherwise exist in other areas, are also needed in this area that we are establishing and we want to form it as respected, not to say in advance what the first ones are going to be arrested. We should allow the exception that some professional people who have met the conditions for retirement can at the same time train some new and young and pass on to them the knowledge needed in this area. I really think that this should be done at this point, not leaving, as if for a lot of things, that later on, some rules, later interpretations of this norm, determine whether anyone can, after 65 years, still be active in the business of public records. I just want to say a few more words about cases where a public notebook can't handle cases. Did you miss that at the speed, I really don't know, but look again at article 54, point 2. Proposal. I'll tell you how the interpretation of this article can be translated into reality. It comes from your proposal that the notary cannot act if the party or legal representative of the party or the party's authority, for example, former brother-in-law, sister-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, sister-in-law, sister-in-law, sister-in-law, sister-in-law, sister-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, brother-in-law, son-in-law, son-in-law, son-in-law, son-in-law, son-law, son-in-law or former partner. Is that logical? Is that a slip? But that comes from Article 54. We also suggested that this member be processed so that there is no obligation to exclude a public notary when his party or legal representative is a party or the party's pronoun of a former spouse or an ex-marriage partner. I'm asking you to even up the approach here, because the illogicalities that arise are really not right. Article 76, witness identity. I really want Serbian citizens to hear all the facts we face in some new and revolutionary laws. You are asking an identity witness, in this public-book business, to meet the requirements of that member's position, so strange and unusual, as if it proves the validity of a legal job, not only confirms the identity, or to say – that person is, to recognize the man who participates in the business. We're asking that it's enough for him to be a minor, so he can be a worthy witness of identity. We propose that he is not worthy only if the judicial verdict found that, for the prize, money, he is engaged in witnessing identity. So, you're making it so difficult for the conditions you're prescribing for a witness to an identity really are not meaningful, nor is the purpose of this solution here. We believe that a full - age person is an impartial witness and that he simply cannot influence, because he does not influence the assembly of any substance of the document and that in that sense they must not remain this and this sort of solution. It is unnecessary for you to seek the impartiality of a person who testifies that it is a person’s identity. Here, I'll give you just one example of life. It's an emergency, for example. It's supposed to make up a public-book document, not owning an official document by a person who's supposed to get that ID and hardly find any identity witness, not at least one of them related. What's the problem with being related if he has to show that he knows that person for whom a public-book document is brought? Please, how could you stop saying that the public notebook is objecting within three days without telling whom the complaint is being made? I'm talking about article 108, you'll manage, when it's prescribed to order the public notary to issue the source of the I.D. He's got three days to make a statement, but who? It was omitted to define the law and we gave you a solution that stems from the other spirit of the law, that it should be a court in which the seat of the public notebook is located. So we think the public records law is necessary. We count that the objections we made have reached your consciousness and, if you adopt them, we can really expect that in application we have a law that will relieve the courts, and about the law on enforcement and security I will speak within the time of the authorised representative at the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53181	The time available for the Progressive Parliamentary Group has been used by Serbia. The People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, and after it is the Messenger of the people Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53182	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, falling into this, as you say, European path, you from the parliamentary majority have killed parliamentary democracy. So today we are discussing four draft laws that have a total of 673 members, and it took Mrs. Minister 34 minutes and 48 seconds just to read part of the reasoning that the services have written to her along with these draft laws, and then you expect the MPs to be able to talk about all these drafts of the law within such a limited time. Unfortunately, you have abolished this restrictive Rules of Procedure and the possibility for MPs to exchange views and opinions with each other, so we could not even comment on some discussions of fellow Members of the congregation, and indeed it was so interesting, it was lyrical, it was a colleague. So, revolutionary laws, that's what the representatives all individually said about the proposals of these five laws. After these revolutionary laws, everything's gonna be great, so far nothing's been good in this area. The question that is being raised, so soundly – how have you gentlemen been so successful if nothing has ever been right so far, if you are just now moving towards revolutionary changes and revolutionary laws? It would be really interesting to hear the views of colleagues from the ruling coalition on this subject. How do we reform the judiciary whenever it comes to some law in the field of justice, and every month we have a new proposal, when it comes to either government representatives or representatives of the ruling majority, judicial reform done best in the white world? On the other hand, we have to change the laws at any moment because you actually admit that the reform has been done disastrously, and you don't have to admit it, citizens who face concrete problems throughout Serbia know that. In order to somehow mention each of these laws that are being discussed today, I will very briefly look back and comment on the introduction of Mrs. Snezana Malovic, at least in some of the most characteristic parts. The lawyership, said Mrs Malovic, is independent and independent and has no party influence. The question we didn't get an answer to, although none of the colleagues from the ruling coalition asked that - are you sure, Mrs. Malovic, about what you said? Yeah. Unfortunately, the lawyer has become an arena of political parties, too. You know, you've been talking here, and you and your fellow MPs, how many round tables have been held. That fight must have been around some oval table or something. So, it's not exactly as fairy tale as you represent us. You know, this newly-formed advanced party went into law enforcement, so they wanted to make some noises, too, because they're used to coups. You know that's what happened in Belgrade's Bar Association. You know, of course. So why didn't you say so, Mrs. Malovic? Say it. Of course you do. Other colleagues know that, but I don't know why they won't say it. It is interesting that several members speak about the entry of foreign citizens' lawyers into Serbia's legal chambers. You're saying this is a request from the World Trade Organisation. Not to get into it, but here's a question - why do you always accept everything unilaterally? All these international obligations are by your authority alone, and you do not ask others to accept it as well. The best example is what my colleagues were saying, yesterday's arrest of Bozidar Vučurević in Mali Zvornik, at the Karakai border crossing. It is, of course, a disgrace to this government, this regime, this government. In particular, it is a disgrace and a shame if we are aware that Mr. Vučurević was arrested on the basis of a red Croatian warrant, and on the other hand your arrest warrant, Mrs. Malovic, somehow falls into the water, and against Ganic, and against Jurisic, and against the Divics, and against Purda. You boast when they are arrested and then called by the president of the state or the government of your party's president, Mr Tadic, and he, of course, issues a warrant, and since your prosecutors and judges, as they write to the media, chose through the Office of State Security, it is no wonder they listen so blindly. Public records, it's another revolution, all revolution to the revolution today, amazingly, you're saying it's part of a national judicial reform strategy. Now, if you've been telling us, long ago, that you've circled that national justice system reform strategy, then you're really asking the question -- are these the last laws, so let's just say no more, we're the best in the world in the area of justice? Probably not. You kind of act like we're short-minded, that we don't know what you said, what you promised, what you said, how you boasted, but you have to remind yourself of how we criticized you and all the objections we've made and that later in life and in practice you actually met the fact that these remarks were mostly in place and true. It's not good that the courts trust some of the public records, at least not in the way you've predicted it here. You know, it's hard after all, after all the criminal acts that have been going on both in courts and in the prosecutions, the arrests of judges and bribes, and the corruption of prosecutors, and the government's top representatives for almost 11 years, since DOS has been in place, it's hard to believe that now you can surprise some of those honest and honest people. You probably have a good intention of doing so, but believe me, Mrs. Malovic, it will be difficult to succeed. It's gonna be hard for you to succeed, which is why it's not a good way to predict it. As before, you take too much of your obligation by law, and then your Secretary of State Mr. Homen does, then what's good, he boasts about it, and what's bad, then it's on your soul. This is well-intentioned because of you, but primarily because of the citizens of Serbia who will suffer because of this law. Those promises -- they won't wait any longer for the lines of overa, etc. How is it possible for you to notice it only after all these years? How many lines are waiting? You never said, when you were talking about a network of courts, why didn't you tell us then? Why didn't you tell Serbian citizens -- dear citizens, we're building a network of courts, but you're going to have a lot of problems, let's say, you're going to have to make an appointment for tomorrow's signing, we're going to have to do that someday? No, I don't. Every time you have one law that you represent here, you say everything is ideal. Then when you come with some new bill, then you actually deny yourself, and by the reasons of these laws, you actually admit that they weren't good before. The execution and security. The most tragic thing here is the introduction of an out-of-court executioner. It's a classic debt exorcism. Imagine the situation, Mrs. Malovic, when banks, where many Serbian citizens are unfortunately in charge, can't quite rightly repay their credit obligations, and when banks engage and pay these debt seekers that you're legalising, how many people in Serbia will be left without an apartment, without a house, without a car, maybe just because only one loan war has failed to pay. Don't play around, this is too serious, too serious, so we can just accept it, even to praise how good it is, like colleagues in the congregation's majority did. We understand that they support the government of the Republic of Serbia, but they don't need to talk about something that, I'm sure, they can't believe themselves. You have spoken, I have noted, that these debtors, or extrajudicial contractors, will officially make a major contribution to the execution of employment and execution due to the non-payment of municipal services. Let's do this second one first. Yes, they will provide a public utility to a man who has no bread to eat, who because of you, because of your regime, has been fired, who cannot feed children, so by force of opportunity does not pay for electricity or water, you will send this pusher to cut off his electricity and water. Will the same debt pusher go to the presidency or government building of the Republic of Serbia, as they are also the biggest debtors when it comes to public utility companies. Mrs. Malovic, what will this extrajudicial perpetrator do to get the employee back to work for the purpose of implementing that solution? Do you know what the Labour Act says? Do you know, Mrs Malovic, that the Labour Act says that the employer is not obliged to return the employee to work even if there is a judicial and executive, and now it will be only a judicial verdict. He can, he says, pay twice as much as the one that the court assigned him for the period he wasn't at work so he didn't even get paid. Then what is the role of this revolutionary of this extrajudicial executioner? In the end, only the shortest in one sentence, this law on the execution of criminal sanctions is not wise, and it is not serious to pass the law simply because you do not have sufficient number of prison employees. You have a problem because prison employees won't guard the Legion and that's also a public secret, so now you're moving the age line, so you're making up some new conditions. You could have handled this without laws, some internal acts, but unfortunately I don't have any more time, but according to the amendments, we're going to discuss all these proposals in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53183	13 minutes and 30 seconds of MP time have been used. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53184	Perhaps, Madam Minister, as someone behind the bill and who is the most responsible person in this area, it was indeed a sincere intention to improve the work of the judicial authorities by adopting these laws. I really wouldn't get into that. I'm going to say something about the draft law on enforcement and security. This is your intention to improve the situation in this area, fix it, and otherwise it's catastrophic, it falls into the water of the moment when you talk about the importance of law-making. Let me remind you, you said, the importance of passing these laws is due to the continued reform of the judiciary and, secondly, the condition for faster EU accession. If we look at both of these points that you point out to be important for the adoption of these laws, as regards the first point, the continuation of judicial reform, we can agree with you that this is indeed the continuation of this reform, but one wrong reform, the wrong one, which is not only us as an opposition, but that's what you get from Brussels. Since the start of the judicial reform, we've been telling you that. But neither you nor this government really have heard of it. There's no hearing, because it's just been tailored for large capital, for foreign interests and foreign embassies. You in Articles 325 and 326. The draft law on enforcement and security requires the transfer of judicial authority, i.e. jurisdiction to other non-judicial institutions. Indeed, Madam Minister, it is simply inadmissible. It is unacceptable not only from the point of view of common sense, but directly contrary to Articles 142 and 143. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that judicial authority is unique, belongs exclusively to courts of general and special jurisdiction, and cannot possibly be passed on to other persons, to other bodies. By private execution, you simply introduce the so-called legal flows. You're predicting that those private contractors that are scheduled here can hire a third party. If only you had predicted that those third parties could wear or what their phantoms would be, this farce and this tragedy would be complete. I think you need to stop destroying Serbia's constitution and Serbia's legal order with some radical proposals and some highly anti-constitutional proposals. But this kind of illogicality, this kind of nadal solution, not only that I've just said, there are a lot of them in this bill of law that I'm talking about, come from the character of the government itself. I don't want to be an apostrophe of individuals or anyone, but I have to point out one little dynasium, that this government reminds me of one thing with two hands. One is longer and one is shorter. That longer serves to take and she arrives everywhere, and this shorter one serves to give. Since it's shorter, it only gives to the nearest. It's pretty much your government. Two years of consent took place to pass the draft law on enforcement and security. In conditions where you realize yourself that the situation in this area is catastrophic and when you say yourself that the speed is the inevitableness of EU accession and European integration, this is still too long. It's particularly a question of what would happen if I didn't think of you personally, but the ministry you represent did not have much influence on the American ambassador, who, in fact, in some ways, gave a pack for this area and the situation in this area. But she didn't do it to protect our citizens, because she was sorry that we didn't have an adequate law on enforcement and security. She did not do it to protect our citizens and strengthen democracy in Serbia. The poor one is the state where they bring democracy and where they strengthen democracy. To remind you of George Clemanso's words that he says about them, it's the only nation in history that has suddenly gone from barbarism to degeneration without a normal period of civilization. Such that they bring us democracy, such as to propose laws and such to care for the interests of our citizens. What will be the practical application of the law on enforcement and security? On the one hand, the formation of special contractors for the removal of debts from municipal and other services, and on the other hand, let us recall briefly the statements of the current Prime Minister and Finance Minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, in connection with the sale of "Maxia" to the Belgians, a very important thing for the execution procedures, both those who were and those who would be. He says about now that the debt from, I guess, if I'm not mistaken, 300m euros, owed to creditors by Maxie, will be paid. Madam Minister, who has the government protected, or who has the government protected so far? What about hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises already went bankrupt without even having to think about the execution procedure for "Maxie"? What about the tens of thousands of workers who worked in these companies who lost their jobs afterwards? What about ruined families, etc? Which perpetrators protected them? Do you think, Madam Minister, that a copying institution of a private contractor will solve all the accumulated problems in this area? What about the special contractors for the collection of utility and other services? We heard this morning a nice story about that lawyer who was masked, who was also in debt, and he disguised himself so he wouldn't take the call. It's a really nice story, but now a second option is allowed. Those who will be hired by private perpetrators, I suppose you give them the opportunity to fight first, so that they may ask later, who is the debtor here? It's an option given by this proposal. Isn't that a clear signal to those who are losers in this transition to prepare fat, to get fat during the time that's coming? A signal that private contractors will be ruthless, that they will do this job more effectively than has been done so far? I ask you, Madam Minister, from whom will they charge and from what will they charge? Why wasn't a social map of over a million unfortunate men being threatened by private executioners first made? I mean those who owe for electricity, water, utility, etc., who didn't have 50 dinars to give to the kid when he went to school this morning. You don't seem to notice, Madam Minister, I'm not speaking to you personally, but I am speaking to the government, that this people, that the citizens of Serbia, have been quite silent lately. A few months ago, Zoran Krasic told you nicely – this people shut up. The former statesmen knew well what it meant and knew how to act in such a situation. This government doesn't know that. Do not let this meek people turn into an angry tiger, so that you may find yourselves in a situation like the one who rides the tiger and is afraid to ride, until the tiger is angry. If you haven't thought about this, this government should think about it for a little while.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53185	Ten minutes and 40 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Nemanja Sarovic, and it is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53186	Mrs. Komic, how much time does the SRS have? (President: The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 33 minutes. I will not repeat what my predecessors have said as a big remark. It is for the EU that these European regulations are being adopted in the package. It is not nice when five pro-European and pro-Nato laws, with which this gun "TT" – Tadic – Tomislav, Štefan File, is not nice when it goes like this in mass, so all the concepts are being chased. These executions, and lawyers, and notebooks, international conventions, etc. It is better to make it clear and loud in order to get along with one thing at a time and perform an educational function in the Hall of the National Assembly. To let the people know about some of the news they're preparing, to simply know who staged that surprise they're about to wave. In anticipation of that signature in October, perhaps in November, if not in November, then in December, I suggest to you, I can paraphrase that rebus if it's just about the signature, because nothing changes. We live by European standards. For eleven years, we have only adopted European regulations and changed these European rules to new EU standards, which may not have yet lived there in Brussels. So, the signature doesn't matter, the standards are important. They're in full capacity with us. Now, like this, ever since human beings and memories, all organized societies have been trying to establish two very important, if I may say so, states. The first is the state of peace, and the second is the state of absence of poverty, something that looks like prosperity. Now we are struck by a new standard that says – we have overcome it, now it is important to respect democracy, human rights and, please, market economy. I see here in these proposals of the law that in this time of change we, or that power shows us democracy. It can also be 25 points in a debate. It's a top democratic principle. Respect for human rights, you saw for yourself, we'll have private perpetrators. Why would that be weird? Here, I must commend you, you from the government. I don't know why these guys are criticizing you. Well, execution should be on the market. This is going to be for five dinars, and this is going to be for 17 dinars, and this is going to be below the price, depending on who's the trustee, who's in debt, which means everything needs to be applied. They can do peacetime, and so can those who implode the security of the state. Except that's where security goes, not through state and state officials, but through trust. So we're gonna trust someone and it's possible someone's registering. Here, let's say, these private security agencies, they can all quickly transform into agencies that are going to do this work of execution. Simple private security has to carry out legal enforcement, private on behalf of the state, because the state is privatized, the government is privatized. So they follow the EU's liquids, step up their foreheads. All interests and demands of Brussels must be achieved in Serbia. There's no alternative, and you have to take it. Their popularity is growing, please, they are becoming more popular and popular every day. The people are looking forward to a new regulation, for example, about law enforcement. When it comes to this literature, it's scribes, notaries, then you can imagine the first table anyone from the ministry, perhaps some secretary, will appoint. Well, when these lawyers come as notaries, say, Konstantinovic, the britches, Bosko Ristic or Homen, he gets tired of being more of this, now he's going to be a nice notary, he's got his own parish, he's got his own territory, and when he starts doing business, so it's the highlight of democracy. Please, who's allowed to rebel in this country? Kori Udovicki said seven years ago – sell the house, pay the electricity. What's wrong with you people? You've spent your electricity, you have to pay. Who's asking you if you have money or if you don't have money? You're required to pay. Sell the house – pay the electricity. Why? Citizens are cost, these authorities are citizens' expenses, and costs must be reduced. They can also be removed, they can be analized, they can be destroyed. Everything that's cost has to be limited. That's the message. A moment ago, we heard, for a wonderful miracle, the lawyers from the Assembly answered, and they said, "If it wasn't for this government, we wouldn't have known what a public notary was." It's like there's no such thing with us. It exists with us, and you have it in the community, and you have it in court. Now the real question is why haven't you arranged it in court and in the municipality, that it's working out how it should work? If you say - we cannot arrange it in the municipality and in the court, that it is done in a quality way, then you show that you are incompetent. So you're not using the levers properly. You couldn't take down "Peru scribe" in the municipal court, you couldn't get the Djoku scribe in the municipality, you couldn't get the outsiders, who usually take these statements or close these things, and there's almost 70% of the work that's been passed on to public notebooks, the work that's already been done with us. Why didn't you manage to arrange it? You didn't want to do that, because those services will be on the market, not in tax terms, but that tax will be a plus tax. It will be monopolies again, in a way, through the chamber and the system will be shut down and you will no longer pursue power, but you will turn to the notebook. Then there goes a big story, big studies, pays Hiber to make a law, he's been struggling for three years how to rewrite some law from Croatia or Slovenia, and then we have books, so we find out through the books that there is this Anglo-Saxon, that there is a Latin system, so the Latin system is expanded by some of the jobs that the notebooks do, compared to this state that exists with us. But no, that doesn't interest them, it has to be like it's supposed to be in Brussels. In light of the bill's proposal, they say there is no single solution in the EU either, there are some differences, and there is no alternative for the EU. Look at the wonders of the great, for three years lawyers have been preparing to be notaries, going to law schools, taking some exams, some classes, etc. So everything's slowly getting ready and moving towards it, that's how it's gonna be. I agree that this job is now organised and that it's sloppy, but it's not the law that exists, it's the judicial authority, and it's the government of the local self-government unit that didn't organise it in a quality way. Could she have organized it in a quality way? She could have. Now this government convinces us that a public notebook like, say, an entrepreneur, so it's still said "out of public trust," I'm sorry, what public trust is that? Who can have public trust in some lawyers I just counted? Personally, he doesn't trust the lawyers I just counted. We have, let's say, the Act on the Authorization of Signatures, which allows both the court and the municipal administration to carry out an overa. You know what's going on? Not because these people work, because they're guilty, but because someone told them, who controls the court, who controls the municipality, that's how it happened with those statements and the blank resignations. People changed contracts, concluded contracts in court, certified, and then misused the seal, went to the scribes in the municipality, certified there and immediately welcomed their judiciary and said – that's all right, the law allows, can there, can do it here. It's hard to talk about the abuses of the rights that are being exercised, so based on that, I conclude that the legal system is so bad that we need to make something new. It's something amazing. What do you have in your lawyer's office to do, to prescribe the terms and conditions and to oblige the Bar Association not to discriminate when people apply for an entry into the law firm? What else would be so important and interesting? No, now it's very important to make businesses, so there'll be specialized companies, so there'll be a monopoly, so if you want to end up in a commercial court, now in a commercial court, you go to it, he goes there and there, the job ends. We know exactly which lawyer dictates which judges are convicted. You know that. Turn your head, you can say whatever you want, but every time you turn your head, I'll give you an object. Here's a criminal report against these Dragons, here's for the company Agrobaca the whole paperwork, here's for this Miss Lugonja Mirjana, she was at the dentist, she broke her tooth, then the real Tosha, she barely stayed alive, no one will look at her. She spoke to the court, the D.A., they don't care. What does this have to do with the EU and Brussels? It doesn't matter. There's a Brussels-EU in your visor. This Jakovljevic is now supposed to support a woman in America who hasn't come here in five years. That lawyer and that judge are making a nice deal. So, the lawyer and the judge are sitting in the courtroom, and they're agreeing on how to harass a man, and we're going to change the law. Where are these attributes of government? Why not apply what the law requires or what the law allows? No, you're not interested in that. You're interested in putting up a line. Do we have a rebus with 2,000 questions? We do. All right, let's do this. You know, by July, the seas of these seven-eight laws. You could have put all those laws in one item of the agenda. It's democratic. The highest degree of democracy is measured according to what speed the demands should be met. Have you considered anything that might happen as a natural consequence of such regulations? I know what's gonna happen to these regulations, they're gonna change again, they're gonna get back together. One of the government's deputies said the first 100 notes would go to jail, and the other 100 would go, you know, to be sure. But are you even prepared as a power to organize the judiciary as prescribed by the Constitution, so here are your false laws? No, because there's no rule of law here. If there were a rule of law, there wouldn't be these four or five performances every day outside the economy ministry. People come in groups, they're looking for some rights, and there's always this crowd, same cops, same Protestants. This street is run by uninterested people, we're used to it – we wait for what Brussels, IMF, World Bank, NATO, EU, Washington, London, is going to get some praise, and that's the vision, that's where we're moving, that's what we're interested in. These regulations, it doesn't matter at all. Under this law, a certified statement by an individual in front of a notary gets some kind of strength, and that same statement certified in court, in front of a court clerk, now lacks any power. How is that possible? Here, let me give you an example: we sued a thief who put us in charge of a loan, witnesses came, signed and court-certified statements that he was forbidden to raise a loan, and the judge simply said he wasn't interested in it. Of course, the judge made progress, went to the Commercial Court of Appeals. The Council of the Court of Commerce said that, yes, the verdict is confirmed, but that, by any chance, you had some proof that it was a ban, it would have been decided differently, and in the case of the case, there were statements, and she would not listen to the witnesses. Now you think it'll help to change the rules? No, the problem is in people, in that kind of self-control, in that kind of pressure. Those who are extremely wealthy, we already know, can buy 129 in the Assembly always, in no time make up their majority, can choose the Prime Minister and their government, currently agree with Mirko Cvetkovic as Prime Minister. He's the first director of the Privatisation Agency and they have to respect what he's done for them. Neither guilty nor debtors became extremely wealthy. You know for yourself that in all ministries there are people who work for certain interest groups and before you write a draft of a law they organize seminars, publish books, brochures, already prepare the terrain. You know, what one would say a long time ago -- well, you're just scouts, you're just scouts. Why are these regulations not working out for you and the execution and you're handing this notebook over to your privates? Because this is how you show and send a message that the state is not good, that the state is wrong, that the state is incapable of doing what is the authentic authority of the state, and only because you are the government. You say as the government - the state doesn't need an executor in court, it needs to be a private entrepreneur. He'll be more effective. Well, you know, civilization has long been a scale between the need to ensure security, stability in a country and the need to respect human rights of democracy, to allow people to express themselves. And as the situation changes, so does that sauce. By 2000, you talked a lot more about human rights and democracy, you came to power, now you say - security, stability is more important. For the sake of safety and stability, it's possible that those with socks on their heads could come as executioners. They've already been trained, I have to tell you, William Montgomery is already co-owner of several private security agencies, you know that. You didn't know, did you? It's not that the opposition knows more than the government. Go to that ATP, register. You will see everything, everything will be clear to you, and with whom they have concluded the contracts, whom they provide, why they provide, how much they charge, whom they represent, where they represent. You can close the deal with William Montgomery. He's very reliable. He could represent the interests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in Washington, you know. You can go with Solana, you can go with Stefan Phil. Even so, with Stefan File, it would already be a conflict of interest, but you can conclude that they represent it, it's lobbying, it's totally normal. That's allowed. We've had lobbying for these bill proposals. You've given yourself a little bit here who wrote this law on public records, I know a man, and I know everything he writes that has a hole, and a virtue and a flaw. But you don't solve the problem, you don't even delay solving the problem, and what we can all be sure of, you make people's lives more expensive and more expensive and more expensive every day and about some basic things. This kind of denial of the state, or government, that it shouldn't be a state business, this literature, regardless of those six groups of jobs that are being done. Transferring business to private businesses, this government says – people, we don't need a state. The state doesn't know how to do that. How is it possible that the state doesn't know how to work? When did the state forget this job? Can the state forget this job? Can the state ever get in a position not to do this job, not to do this job? Our country boasts and says - civil servants are even tromical, slow, they can't work on these certificates, the privateer will do much better. The court is full. These aren't even court cases, I have to tell you. There's something small about these records and what the judges are doing in the out-of-pard procedure, it's mostly leftovers and something that's indisputable about property, but you're not going to develop that part. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You say: they are of public trust. What trust? You think it's enough that you write in the law that the notary will have public trust? Public trust should be earned, and respect for the constitution and laws and other binding standards. But no, it's important here for the signing, it's important that this one is completed by July, if I may say so, legal transformation or legal harmonisation of the rules in the area of justice, so we'll see in the other half what we need more. Because there in October is supposed to be a parade, in November, and then all our problems are solved, overnight. There will be no more delays in the courts, all statements will be taken properly. The execution won't be a problem at all. It'll be very effective, some time with a sock, some time without a sock. They're going to conduct the procedure. You had a chance this morning, at the beginning of this debate, Judita Popovic belonged to the second parliamentary group, to give one very interesting and interesting idea, that practically the executive procedure would be a natural consequence of the litigatory, without the obligation to open the procedure, but as a natural follow-up. It's an extremely good idea. Of course, it probably takes some further development of this idea, and far more efficient than what you suggest through these private contractors, etc. I'm just distracting you that a large number of citizens rightly object to how some lawyers represented them. It's kind of a private relationship between a client and a lawyer, but it's not just a private relationship. A few times, the Bar Association has appeared with some disciplinary procedure to protect the reputation of the chamber, as you know for yourself, there is solidarity between health workers and other esnafs, there is some solidarity, but it does not want to regulate it. She regulated the choice of the Bar Association and these things, so that it would not appear as with dentists and some other chambers, and you forgot one thing, that lawyers would have some specific position which in some detail is equated with a specific position which, by natural laws, is recognised to the priest and the doctor. A priest, a doctor and a lawyer are beyond those, if I may say so, regular professions and there is a reason why, because it enters into the most intimate and what is said, the soul of a man and his family relationships and therefore has some special obligations. We have a situation where people are unhappy with their lawyers. He says – the lawyer has been working for the opposite side since the start of the proceedings, but the ignorant party only realized it 20 days before the legality of the verdict. We didn't protect people like that. Then these insurance stories, that the notary needs to secure its business in order to answer for the damage done, are fairy tales that are not worth commenting on, because it doesn't lead to anything. This is important here, because the Brussels conditions here in Belgrade and Serbia need to be met, the hill-dove is pushed by five-six laws in the context of a debate. These laws don't even have to have a natural connection. They urgently need to be brought in, in order for someone to find out – the condition is met, we go to the next stage. If, by any chance, a remark or later, there is a need to change something, no problem exists, most of it will change, all in good faith to meet the Brussels conditions, and we live by European standards. In the story of European standards, people were given elections, they voted for it while they trusted you. Today it has changed, I don't want to talk about what percentage, let each bid their percentage, but that story no longer passes for the simple reason why the European perspective or the European future is something in the air that is not seen and not felt, and with the story of the European perspective and the future, some go very well. Which one? The ones who are close. You know for a fact that 35% of approved loans never enter Serbia. They're consulting services, and you know for a fact that 20% of public procurement only disappears. At four billion, the value of public procurement, 800m euros disappears. The government says they don't know, these observers of yours say they don't know. A few days ago you passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction and Planning, you will see what problems will be with conversion. Someone has prepared the ground for conversion. You'll see what the problems will be. Look, he can't hide this anymore. That's what citizens feel, and that feeling just makes you keep quiet right now, and when it explodes, whether it explodes, how it explodes, don't ask me. This kind of passion with which you push 'Europe has no alternative', even if it is trampled on by people, even if they are kicked out of the apartment, out of the house, because of electricity, water, phones, remember, there are people who can't forgive you. This is a kind of scandal with Vučurević in Šapec. An even bigger scandal is the harassment of Bosiljka Mladic today in court, one lady of seventy years to treat it that way because Europe has no alternative. Take care, people, what you're doing. Say Serbia has no alternative, that Serbian citizens have no alternative. Stay away from this flossula, Europe has no alternative. Finally, if you can, turn around. Here, I'm warning you, I'm letting you know that I'm talking to a 126 number that probably doesn't hear that, so maybe he doesn't have a soul. I've told you a million times in this congregation what rules are wrong. The SRS presented a number of reasons, so after two, three, four, five months or a year, you kind of admitted it, changed it, changed it in another way or something else. Take that kind of stubbornness out of politics, and from the EU and Brussels, tie it to a cat's tail, there's nothing out of it, everyone knows that, even those in Brussels, even those here in Serbia. Remember, Belgium doesn't have a government yet. I would very much like to send these pro-European personnel to take care of Belgium in a European way, to make the government there, to coerce there with all its strengths, to break up with European standards and Belgium as they have torn Serbia apart.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53187	29 minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Since there are no more reports on the lists of parliamentary groups and before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask – do the Presidents or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53188	I will speak within the time frame of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group and I will talk about the law on enforcement and security. I understand that in the shortest time, without previous exhausting litigation, the trustee is charging his due claim, and that is indeed a desirable goal. The question is whether this goal is achieved and to what extent is the bill before us. I think it is undeniable that the enforcement and security procedure in current practice is inadmissible and that the bad legal solutions that regulate this area are responsible. I think it's undeniable and that changing what's wrong certainly doesn't mean changing what's right. For example, this was just done in Article 13 of the proposed law, where a good solution was amended, and it was a good solution that the decision-making authority and the enforcement certificate were thus avoiding potentially controversial situations, so that the solutions that you have proposed, what is considered to be necessary, and what by an executive, or final judgment, should indeed be thrown out and not lead to such interference. The following remark concerns the time limit for voluntary fulfilment and we believe that the start and completion of the deadline for voluntary meeting of the claim is determined by a court ruling. You know that it cannot be determined by this law. As an economist, I'm representing the work of the SNS legal team, and I'm asking you to take it as an argument of the hand that we're seriously dealing with and that really, by passing new laws, we're not actually making a new mistake. So, except when it comes to temporary measures, it's always and as a rule known that it's not actually the day when the decision was handed to the executive debtor, but it's the day of expiry of the appeal period, you have to agree with me, or the day of the second-degree decision on the appeal. I am telling you that if there were to be a solution like this that you made in the bill, then, in a indirect manner, the suspension of the complaint would be lifted in the court proceedings, as well as the two-stage procedure that precedes the executive procedure. It's not just here, in many things similar to nature when we've passed laws here, these two-degree rights of appeal, objections and revisions are generally bad solutions. Here, let me show you right now, without going by law, I'll tell you, for example, that in article 39, you have a proposal where you're not actually allowed to repeat the procedure. It would be wrong to adopt the solution you have made in Article 39, that an anti-judicial solution in the enforcement and security proceedings is not allowed to repeat the procedure. Now I'm going to explain why. Therefore, in order to protect the rights of the parties, the right to invest this emergency remedy should not be excluded in cases where a litigation procedure could be repeated, of course, if it is in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Implementation and Security. However, do you think that you should deprive the party of the right to impose this legal remedy if, for example, the court's decision has taken place on the part of the judge or it is impossible to happen or, on the contrary, is not only hypothetically, but rather a very possible case or criminal act of a private perpetrator now, when everyone is complaining about why private perpetrators exist. Well, if we've done catering services at all, let there be a specialized cheapest and private execution, but don't lift the right to repeat the procedure if there's a criminal part of the private contractor. Or, for example, what is not possible to build an execution on a falsified credential? We have thousands of broken privatisation processes because falsified securities in balance sheets, in the prospectus of privatisation, where hidden hectares of land, which could not evaporate, as stocks could be spent, and unshown, where hundreds and thousands of squares of business space are not shown in the privatisation prospectuses. It's not my suspicion, it's the reality that's happening in this country. So when an execution is made on the basis of a forged document, you do not allow the possibility of repeating the procedure. Please, even though it's 1800 hours, even though we're tired, even though we're sitting here for 30, you understand the seriousness of the objection I'm making to you. It is possible, then, that the solution may actually be based on some decision of the court or of another body, and that decision may even be legally abolished. So what are you going to do if you've disabled this kind of legal protection? So, you know that in some cases, which is provided for by Article 422. The law on litigation, allowed and possible for this situation to happen, and you rule out the possibility of correcting injustice. What's the law for? What's the point of passing a law like this, this home here and the words of all of us? If you rule out, by law, the right of parties to request a repeat procedure, you won't gain anything on efficiency, but you will question the protection of the rights of participants in this process. Why am I saying you won't lose to efficiency? Because there's no delay in execution. So, no detail seems to be a slower process, and neither is the possibility of an exception from a judge, nor is missing some deadlines that you have not stated in the law, because neither of them retains execution. The process is ongoing, but do not question the protection of the rights of the participants in this procedure in order to reduce time. I also have some fully-founded remarks, and in collapsing, members are with each other, for example, concerned with the proposal to execute, where the debtor is left with an additional three days to voluntarily fulfil the claim, which we consider to be completely illogical and it is not now in line with what is called the urgency of the procedure, which is the basic objective of passing the law. So where you deny the right to repeat the procedure, it is pointless to call for urgency because it does not delay the procedure itself and does not stop the request for repetition. Here you are giving no need for an additional deadline for a voluntary execution, because one who has not fulfilled his commitment within a regular period will hardly do so in this additional three days. You know what you're doing? At the moment we want to free the court of superfluous affairs, we are in fact imposing an additional obligation on the court to monitor this three-day extension to fulfil the obligation, which, in fact, you will admit, is some additional certificate of enforcement. What's a three-day term besides court work and additional enforcement certificates? As the economists who have studied the check law and the bill on the bill of bills are still in college, happy to return to that matter, it really bothers me that the only protest of the bill has been defined by Article 18. Thus, the protest is only one of a series of mechanical, or check-in actions that are detailed in the Law on the Book or the Check Act, so it is regulated when the protest is required. Now, explain to me - why did you especially point out this law that the bill and check must be with the protest, when it is necessary to base the claim? Because if you point out the protest, as an important, special and important one, the other provisions of the Law on bonds and checks, as well as other actions, regresses, avalanche, notification, indosament, cessiums and many others, are less important, perhaps even in some way even disaved by this kind of solution in the provision of Article 18. What else is wrong with this law? In Article 21, please pay attention, it is not all-time giving the opportunity to initiate an enforcement procedure before a competent court in the Republic of Serbia on the basis of an executive document which is not previously recognised before a domestic court. In that case, the court must decide on the recognition of that document as a preliminary procedure. So, there's no dispute in the possibility of that I.D. being admitted. But it can't be based on an executive document that hasn't been previously recognised before our court to initiate an enforcement procedure. You know that this is the opposite of the Hague Convention on the Liberation of Foreign Public documents from 1961 and the Convention on the Liberation of Certain Immigrants. Full legalisation is being carried out, but you have to consider that there is a right of the State to create a document, the right of that State means that the document is created, to verify whether there is reciprocity between the States and what type of reciprocity, or in which extent of reciprocity exists, so that we can discuss it in the domestic judiciary, in a way that such a document becomes a burdensome element of the enforcement process. It is particularly important in this part, so I'm talking about Article 21, paragraphs 4 and 5, that the undefined question is paying a court fee for the recognition of a foreign document, if it is done in the execution process. You haven't defined it anywhere, and especially how and from whom a tax will be charged for this part of the procedure that is necessary. I don't know if you think it's enough to define that in the ordinary procedure of recognising a foreign court order for such recognition, the party seeking recognition, or the party, but in the executive procedure, the costs of the proceedings always fall on the burden of the executive debtor. I think this should be understood, by simply erasing the attitudes I've given you. The property of the executive trustee shall be obtained by means of an execution decision. Please, I don't know how that leak could have happened. So, Article 23, you can't say that the existence of an executive document is the moment of initiation of the procedure, or a condition for acquisition. Simply, the property of the executive trustee is acquired only when the execution solution is reached. Someone's executive can stand in a drawer, but when it's confirmed by a solution, then someone can acquire the property of an executive trustee. Article 24, you have a solution that does not comply with Article 329. The law on bond relations, which applies to one of the better laws and more permanent ones that this country has in the wealth of the legal system. It is prescribed that in the case of an obligation under a contract on the economics of handing things over to a public warehouse for the account of the creditors, it is treated in such a way that it produces the same fact as that these things are kept at the court, meaning that the public warehouse has the same nature and security as the court’s. We feel it is necessary to introduce this solution into this law on enforcement and security, because your formulation of the proposal - in the same way done otherwise, what does that mean to you? Why, if he's already a member of 329. The bond law prescribed what public storage has to provide to be treated the same as the court? Why this foggy provision in the same way and in another appropriate way? So it implies the way that the legislator is known at this point and I think that such solutions should be applied. Since the law is large, if there isn't much time, I'll pass the rest of the provisions quickly. Highlighting the letters on the court's advertising board, Article 29, it regulates, always had more formal than notifying character, not to say even that – hang at the bottom of the hall near the toilet, so no one can even see what it is. It is unlikely that someone, Mrs Malovic, will go to the court building to be informed on the advertising board whether someone is written to him by pointing out on the advertising board, but because of this, in the era of digitisation and the existence of the Internet, it is very possible to highlight it on the Internet presentation and, as such, will allow real respect for the basic objective of the law, that in the shortest time, without exhausting litigation, a request for a trustee is charged. Someone mentioned today as a good solution to returning to the former state, Article 30. I don't agree with that. All procedural laws allow for the possibility of returning to the previous situation, if there are reasonable reasons for this, which are missed for some action to be carried out. This law simply requires this because the bill does not prescribe the court's obligation to deliver in writing to the executive debtor, but only to try to hand it over, and that is a big difference and you should know it. Why are you excluding a member of the 31st possibility of exempting the judge, the bailiff, the president of the court? If a person considers that a member of 31st literally determines the time limit for the application for the exception of the judge in question, it is not allowed to rule out the possibility if someone considers those persons to be an obstacle to objective treatment and possibly considers them an obstacle to objective treatment. Isn't our goal being objective? The party must have the opportunity to seek the exception of all those faces I've listed. Request for exemption, I mentioned already, does not delay execution. Why are you excluding the possibility of abuse of this institute, calling for the party to abuse the possibility of an exception? So you can't break some standards to prevent the abuse of a legal institute. It's just proof of impotence. You should leave an opportunity for someone to exercise their right, but to define legal institutes that will not retain the procedure, and precisely the solution that we have given you in Article 31, paragraphs 1 and 2 to delete, we will do so. What else do I want to tell you? You have failed to define what the Court Tax Act explicitly and precisely solves, which is that someone can be released from court fees, even in this procedure. It has been omitted to take into account the Law on judicial fees which some persons exempt in view of these cases, given the property situation and without their request, such as Supported persons, foreign citizens under conditions of reciprocity, state authorities and others. We believe that there must be a formulation in Article 34 of the Law, where it is defined that an executive trustee can be released from the obligation to make an advance on behalf of the costs of execution and security, means based on the court's decision and on the law. I believe it's a failure, the law is large, it happens. In Article 52, in order to achieve an effective enforcement process, you have defined in the proposal a number of new solutions, but also some that not only prevent the parties involved from delaying the procedure, but it was very important in that request that the procedure go quickly and that nothing slows it down, that you make one necessary balance, that you do not allow guaranteed human rights to be violated which are guaranteed both by the Constitution and international conventions. In Article 52(5), you did so and did not constitutionally deny the debtor the right to a legal remedy, and the trustee must be given the opportunity to make objections against a solution that adopts or rejects a claim for payment of the court penalty. I don't understand what it means not to invest a complaint on a court penalty? The objection to the general solutions in this proposal does not delay enforcement, the urgency of the procedure is not questionable, but you question the objection that this law violates certain human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53189	Does anyone else want a word that hasn't used their right to Article 96? Rules of Procedure? The PUPS parliamentary group has all the time available to the president, as well as to the parliamentary group, with the parliamentary group no longer being able to use because they have not been reported. The word has the justice minister, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53190	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank all the MPs who participated in today's debate. On this occasion, I would like to remind myself of the objective of reforming the judiciary, which we set for ourselves when we started in this process. First of all, it is an increase in the efficiency of the court procedure, intensification of the fight against organised crime and crime in general and corruption and, of course, strengthening investments through the economy judiciary. During the reform of the judiciary, we also set out its phases. First of all, it is a matter of general elections as a prerequisite for further implementation of reforms, changes in procedures, changes in the organisation of work and changes in consciousness. I would say that this law has continued the path of judicial reform. Before I refer to certain objections from specific laws, I would also like to respond to some of the principles that have been put forward in today's discussion. Also, I will not say that I have been called, but I will say that I have been invited to answer certain questions and discussions of the MPs, so I will try to express my views on this occasion. I would say that there are malicious and incorrect claims made by certain MPs who have said that there are mounted processes in the Serbian judiciary. They draw their stand out of ways while their party was at the head of the Justice Ministry or while participating in the government. Also, I would like to look back on the view of the constitutionality of the judicial laws, on which a reform of the judiciary was carried out. Any claim that these laws are unconstitutional is not simply correct, and this is not my opinion, but the opinion of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which, before the process of judicial reform and the general election process was initiated, came out with its position in July 2009, where they estimated that the judicial laws were in accordance with the Constitution and that the procedure for the general election was in accordance with the constitution. I'll agree that these are systemiczakons, laws that contribute to further development of judicial reform, the affirmation of our judiciary. We have invested a lot of time in preparing these laws, and you have seen that some laws have been prepared for many years, some and a half years, because we wanted to present to all MP groups, and we have succeeded in that, and I would estimate that the debate that we had, not only during this session, but also during the presentation of parliamentary groups, has indeed been constructive and I believe that it will contribute to the text of this law being better. As far as the Law on Lawyerry is concerned, I want to reject all the views that concern the fact that we wanted to conduct a politicisation of law and that is simply not true, because this law was done by lawyers, there were six lawyers in the task force, and whether they were appointed by the Board of Attorneys or by the Assembly of the Bar Association, we did not enter it, we sent a letter to the Serbian Bar of Lawyers, and in which way they will determine their representatives. Also, certain parliamentary groups discussed the subject of withdrawing the laws. Some members of the party also publicly stated that the law in 95% of the provisions is good, that amendments can be improved, so it simply causes confusion in the public what the position is. It's left to the Bar Association to regulate its status, its rights, its obligations, its way of functioning. The Ministry of Justice has functioned here in the working group as a technical body, with regard to their representatives who served primarily to get those provisions legal-technically settled. Public debates were organised, round tables were presented to all regional chambers and the Belgrade Bar, and there was also a debate within that chamber and I think we could no longer present the law than we did. The law is a condition for Serbia's accession to the World Trade Organisation and because of the way it is regulated and liberalised services, but also this time, as with other laws that are a condition for Serbia's accession to the EU and European integration, we have tried to adapt the provisions of the law to our legal tradition and our legal practice without violating the system that exists in this country. I agree with the debates of the MPs to be late for the law. We had foreseen in the national integration plan that the law was passed last year, and why it was not adopted – simply because we did not want to force representatives of the Bar Association, members of the working group to prepare the law as soon as possible. We cared about the quality of the law, not the speed of it. There is a newspaper in the law, and it is also highlighted in my statement this morning, but also in the views of the MPs. A law school is being established, and I believe it will contribute to an even greater affirmation of the law profession. I really think of law enforcement as part of the judiciary, and we can't have justice reform in the right way unless we have co-operation. The Department of Justice has always been a law partner and we will continue to do so. As for the law on public notebooks, when I was looking for it when it started working on this law, I found that it started 13 years ago, so I wouldn't agree that we should have waited. So if making the law lasted 13 years, I just don't think Serbia has time to wait any longer. We are the last country in the region that hasn't passed this law. We didn't do it quickly, but we looked at the experiences of other countries, especially countries in the region, and this time I'll tell you that the provisions of the law were also given by a respected professor from Croatia, Prof. Dicka, who is one of the most invited experts in this area. Just because it represents a newspaper in our legal practice, we tried to carefully formulate the provisions of the law. In particular, it was an intrinsic instinct that we would in no way compromise the affairs of law enforcement. I've seen that there are very good amendments. The justice ministry has never had a problem adopting amendments, unrelated to whether they come from opposition or positional parties. Our intensities were that, within the court, the jobs that represent the trial in the narrow sense of words, so where there is no principle of debate to pass on these public powers to public notaries. Of course, they won't be able to do it completely out of control. There is strong control, as in the Ministry of Justice – because we are the ones who transfer these public powers and from there perhaps so much interference from the Ministry of Justice, which, of course, is not only about our system, but is in all the parallel legal systems – and, of course, through the Chamber of Public Records. Issues related to the exam have been raised, why no exam or course is recognised, which is slow at certain universities or in certain places, since various institutions have organised courses for the education of future public notebooks. We did not do so for the simple reason that such a provision would be against the constitution. You cannot favor these people in relation to others and therefore you need to form a commission that will examine future public records. I reject as incorrect and malicious every insinuation on the composition of the commission, so that incompetent people can enter the commission. As I said in my previous presentation, I am now saying that simply such people may draw such conclusions from the way they are used to acting. I view it as very high-quality proposals that there is positive discrimination if we talk about national minorities, we have also done so in the Law on Judges and I believe that we will be able to accept such amendments. Also, here are the views and experiences of some countries in the region, where there have been arrests, arrests or some criminal proceedings by public notebooks, but simply no one has been amnesty since law violations. Anyone who breaks the law will be processed. I think we've shown the results so far and so far that there are no amnesties. As I said, there will be control of the Ministry of Justice and their chamber. If there is a violation of the law, there is a law and a constitutionally established procedure. As for the law on enforcement and security, I agree with the debates of the MPs that the current law has favored the debtor more than it has affected the trustee. It seems to me that more attention was given to the debtor and his rights, and somewhere the trustee was neglected. We must not allow the procedure to take longer than I have been a litigator. Here, right here in this honored home, I had questions about where the litigation procedure was completed in three months and that the execution took four years. It is simply that I have no answer to such things and therefore this bill and the solution found in this bill is aimed at excluding such cases. As I said, we have a procedure of execution of some 260 days, and the standard in the EU is to last 60 days. If strict legal provisions are provided for, it may take a shorter time. My experience in the application of the law on the confiscation of property arising from the crime, where the issue of execution is almost and not asked, indicates that if you carefully devise and have the courage to introduce some solutions, then you can also lead to our executive procedure being effective, to match the trustee and to represent the power of the state. Like I said, our wish is that the executive procedure doesn't turn into a lawsuit. We have some solutions that have been assessed as revolutionary here to be confirmed by the Council of Europe. We also saw that some EU countries recently introduced such solutions. I am deeply convinced that they can contribute, as I said, to the efficiency of the procedure. As far as private contractors are concerned, there are a lot of criticisms about what is being brought out in this respected home. I simply want to say for the uninformed, in general, about the adoption of law on enforcement and security, the Ministry of Justice ended in late 2006, and in early 2007, when the minister of justice was from now on an opposition party, concluded a project with USAID, an international organisation, where the project was the basis for the introduction of private perpetrators. I'm sorry that the representatives of that parliamentary group aren't here to hear it, but I'm going to repeat that in the debate in particular, so I think they're going to find the clarity and continuity that the current Justice Ministry has continued, in connection with the introduction of this institute. Private contractors can't function on their own, it's the same as with a public notebook. There is control of both the court and the Department of Justice and their chambers. Insinuations are that future private contractors will be members of the security agency. It is known how private perpetrators are named, the conditions they must meet and, in the end, as I said, there is strict control over them. The enforcement of court decisions is a central issue of the state's power to ensure citizens' rights. There is no justice without the execution of court decisions, and therefore it is essential to reform the implementation of Serbia's economic development. I am deeply convinced of the accuracy of my words. We want Serbia to take the place of a competitive player on the world market. I also want to point out the fact that foreign investors will not invest money unless all assumptions for their business are met. As I said, I hope there will be more questions about the specific provisions of all these laws that will be put into debate in particular, so we will have more time to talk about all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-05-0.u53191	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 96? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, before the conclusion of a principled and uniform search? (No) Since no one is answering the word, I conclude a joint principled and uniform search on the draft law on law on law on law on law on public records, a draft law on enforcement and security, a draft law on amendments to the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and a bill on the approval of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Criminal Court on the execution of the International Criminal Court's sentence. Thank you to all the participants of today's session. I thank the minister. This concludes work for today. We'll continue work tomorrow, April 6th, at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
