ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 162 MPs attend the sittings. To determine precisely the number of MPs present in the hall, I would ask the MPs to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 114 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of MP Aleksandra Jankovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session exclusively for Monday, as well as within a shorter period than set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda set out in request 123 MPs for holding an extraordinary session before the end of the extraordinary session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the discussion of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of promoter Dr Diana Dragutinovic, Finance Minister, and Dragan Sutanovac, Minister of Defence, I invited the sittings to attend and Ilija Pilipovic, Deputy Defence Minister Aleksandar Kocic and Visnja Kuzmanovic, advisers at the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was called upon by the request of 123 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 248. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have been sent a request to hold the First Extraordinary Session with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see for the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 the next Dn e n i d d 1. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Serbian Bank of Belgrade for the obligations of JP "Jugoimport-SDPR", which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to Sostate Generale with the guarantee of the World Bank, which was submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011, submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was submitted by 99 MPs. Proposal to merge the debate. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, based on Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: - A joint principled search be carried out on: a draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Serbian Bank a.d. Belgrade on the obligations of JP "Jugoimport-SDPR" and a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Social General with the guarantee of the World Bank; - A joint principled search on: a proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2011 and a proposal for a decision on the participation of a member of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2011. Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50147	Yes, in that sense, I withdraw the proposal you quoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50148	We're going to work on the agenda. Before we continue our work, I suggest that the National Assembly determines the resignations of the members of the government after the conditions have been met. You have received the resignations of Mr Mladjan Dinkic, acting Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Mr Verica Kalanovic, acting as Minister for the National Investment Plan and Professor Tomica Milosavljevic, acting as Minister of Health. In accordance with Article 133(2), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). The Government Act and Article 278, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly, at the first next session, without a search, finds out, or acknowledges that a member of the Government has resigned and is not decided on the day of resignation of a member of the Government. As a result, the National Assembly finds that Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Mr Verica Kalanovic, Minister of National Investment Plan and Prof. Dr. Tomica Milosavljevic, the health minister, resigned and, on the day of their resignation, ended the mandate of Deputy Prime Minister, or Minister of Government. On the occasion of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mr Mladjan Dinkic's resignation, I remind you that the assembly procedure has also reached the proposal by the Prime Minister, Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, that Mr Mladjan Dinkic be relieved of his duties as a member of the government. However, since we are in an extraordinary session, the National Assembly, according to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 249(1) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly may act solely on the pre-defined agenda set out by the authorising officer of the extraordinary session, and that proposal has not put the proposed resolution proposal on the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE USE OF THE SERBIA BANK A.D. BELGRADE FOR OBLIGATIONS JP "JUGOIMPORT-SDPR" (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs in a proportionate number of MPs, as follows: MEP Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS MP group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group – 24 minutes; SPS-JS-18 minutes; MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; New Serbia's parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that according to this agenda point, the parliamentary group will represent, and this is: MP Zoran Kasalovic, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group; MP Vlajko Senic, MEP G17 plus; MP Ivan Andric, MEP LDP. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Serbian Bank of Belgrade for the obligations of "Jugoimport-SDPR". Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50149	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are before you the Law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Serbian Bank, a.d. Belgrade for the obligations of JP "Jugoimport-SDPR". I want to take this opportunity and expose what is the legal basis for proposing this law. So, according to the Law on Public Debt, it is parliament that decides to grant a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia. Also, two members of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia provide a framework for the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and for the issuing of a guarantee. These are: Article 3. Budget law for 2011 and Article 33, same law. Also, as you all know, the professional and other public are increasingly talking about the new model of growth of the Republic of Serbia. This new model of growth, in fact, assumes the transition from a modern model or so-called pre-crisis model, which was primarily based on the growth of domestic consumption, on the growth that was based, above all, on exports. It is indisputable that in the crisis period Serbia has really started to change its growth model, at most three data testify; that exports in 2010 have increased by more than 30% compared to the previous one, that Serbia still has an external imbalance, but the balance of payments deficit has been significantly reduced, so let's remind ourselves that in 2008, the balance of payments deficit was, even 18% of GDP, to be between 6% and 7% in 2010. Therefore, it is undeniable that Serbia is changing its growth model. It's undeniable that adapting is painful, but that's the only option he has. Also, I would like to remind the MPs that the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a strategy to increase the Republic of Serbia for the period 2008 to 2011, and that strategy identifies the most important markets, export markets, for the Republic of Serbia. One group of markets, which are traditional markets, where Serbia already has experience in exporting its products and other markets, are those growing markets and markets with large purchasing power. As one of the perspective markets, and especially the perspective markets for exporting Serbia's dedicated industry, Algeria has also been identified. On 26 November 2010, the Ministry of National Defence of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria and JP's Jugoimport-SDPR concluded a contract, envisioning exports of goods and services by the domestic dedicated industry of 280.8m euros. The size and importance of this job is best reported in the data relating to exports of the entire dedicated industry from 2007 to 2010. So in 2007, the dedicated industry exported $75 million, 2008. 183, that in 2009 and 2010, Serbia's dedicated industry would export about 250m dollars. Therefore, $250m is the annual export of Serbia's dedicated industry. The value of this export job is around 280m euros. Otherwise, Serbia's dedicated industry records significant growth, not only in exports, of course, but also in production. There are seven plants of the dedicated industry that employs about 9,000 workers. I would like to remind you that the number of workers netly increased by a thousand, just as a result of large export operations and growth in production. The guarantee given by the Republic of Serbia does not concern the full value of the job, but refers to 15% of the value of the job of the advance that the Algerian side will give, or provide JP 'Yugoimport-SDPR'. However, the Algerian side has sought counter-guarantee for the return of the advance unless the Public Enterprise fulfils its obligations under the roof contract and individual contracts. Given that it is a major export business, given that this large export business can bring in other large export jobs, given that this guarantee, provided by the Republic of Serbia, is, in fact, support for export growth, I ask the MPs to support this law, regardless of what side they were on, in the voting day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50150	I thank Mrs. Minister. Let me just inform you that the SRS parliamentary group will be represented at this point by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? (No) Is the rapporteur of the Finance Committee, MP Branko Ljiljagzeli, a word? (No) I thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search of the application for a word, in writing, gave: the SRS Parliamentary Group, the LDP Parliamentary Group and the DSS Parliamentary Group. Are any of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's an extremely interesting one and, I would say, important topics that we're going to discuss today, and that's the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the sake of the Serbian bank, a.d. Belgrade for the obligations of JP "Jugoimport-SDPR", and whenever it comes to such matters, of course, that public interest is quite a bit, given some of the facts that we have talked about so far and some of the things that we have been following, first of all, this part of the industry or, to say, the economy of the country, in some previous period, as well as the situation in which we are in today. In the opinion of us in the SRS, things are not good at all, although we have been able to read about the Serbian military industry as the only export opportunity, etc. There were those who felt that just the recovery of the military industry was something that should bring an exceptional benefit to the state of Serbia, however, we have witnessed that, besides working with Iraq, which was worth, some, $235 million, practically, some other potential opportunities, which at least once had this area, in fact, was not, as things currently stand, neither will come. Simply, if we look into the facts in the eyes, something that is part of the whole story, which is about export opportunities and capacity, that is, the fact that the state of Serbia and how much it owes on various grounds, mostly economically unwarranted, I will just remind myself that if we create some parallel between the former state and today that the debt of such irresponsible country leadership has grown to some 23 billion dollars, which is about $1,000 per capita or 3-4 thousand per family. If we look exclusively at this area of business, where JP's chief representative is "Jugoimport-SDPR", then it is clear that the results of what should now be subdued are extremely unfavourable, because other than frequent travel, costs, etc., the overall effect of all this is practically negligible. If it compares itself to previously negotiated export transactions for our companies, first of all in these non-classified countries, and already in this mentioned one, Iraq, I'll just say that for a decade, according to the 1980-1990 data, our companies have achieved over $38 billion jobs, which from exports, which from works and in this cooperative co-operation with the country. But it's only one country. Of course, countries like Libya, India, Indonesia, Chile, and so on, countries with which our country could achieve much better co-operation on a cooperative basis. Most of our exports just came from the military industry. Of course, all these jobs were also followed by the work of construction, which was then one of the most powerful in the world. The military industry and the builders dragged along the rest of the economy, so it could be said that the entire economy was involved in these significant businesses. However, thanks to the irresponsibility of the government, especially in this past decade, it must be known that one country cannot develop in the way they consider it, above all, by selling to foreigners the most valuable economic capacity. One small country that has been on the list for years among the first 10 exporters of arms and military equipment, and I will remind only that we have produced airplanes and helicopters, pitchers, tanks, etc., probably the general public is not aware that there were fewer than 10 countries around the world that produced these five products at that time. There is certainly a political historical aspect that brings us back to a previous time, that is, why was the main focus of the conflict exactly in BiH, in one of the republics of the former state? Perhaps the answer lies in the fact that over 50% of the military industry's capacity was placed right there. Those combinations are gone because they've been destroyed. But I said it's not just the military industry, it's the industry at all, we'll agree that the military industry is an engine of development that drives all the other branches of industry, because if one country is in a situation where it produces such complex products and participates in this, as much as 70% of the industry that doesn't belong to the military industry, it's a parallel between countries like ours and already mentioned Iraq, because both countries were inappropriately industrially strong compared to their size. We also had very professional and experienced personnel without whom such production was inconclusive. Of course, the consequence of all these facts is what happened to our country and Iraq as well. What is the problem is that Serbia has not been able to preserve much from these military production capacities. What is being used today is, in principle, I could say, in a state of some kind of clinical death, because most of the factories of that military industry are not encouraged at all, nor have the state provided them with jobs, only machines remain, and virtually now there is no one to work on. The workers mostly, realizing that of those promised 200,000 new jobs there was nothing to do, went after bread with their stomachs, because those state institutions that were otherwise obliged to provide them with work, not only did they not do so, but they also made it impossible for any attempt at leadership to fix something on the plan. So from this vast potential, with a rather respectable budget, there was a period that could be called a period of total destruction in this area of economy. I will not now remind myself of the potentials that only the Military Institute had, etc., so this was indeed one possibility and one chance that Serbia had not taken advantage of, but all this is due to a whole policy that has been led over the past 10 years. The very wrong move of the state, which is that for some political reasons, certainly not economically, because I will repeat once again that we believe that the military industry could be the generator of comprehensive economic development, therefore, for purely political reasons, we have given up many technologies. First of all, he's thinking about the development of a deterrent weapon, because if we had something like that, probably the country would never have come into a situation to experience what it had experienced in 1999. Also, the problem we want to point out is that, of course, through the already mentioned "Yugoimport-SDPR", as a business carrier in this area, our country has small and limited co-operation with countries where it should certainly be different. First of all, we think of Russia, given that both our weapons and systems are quite compatible with Russian, and not only Russian, but also with Chinese and Arab countries, Latin America, etc. But apparently, as it is said in time, we Serbs seem to love and respect our enemies much more than our friends. This is one of the reasons that today in Serbia co-operation with Russia is, in this sense, practically forbidden by the West. Therefore, it is very difficult to create an economic development environment where the result will come and allow for the complete destruction of something that should be the basis in the area of economy in this country. What also concerns, if you exclude that export aspect, is the fact that there is nothing new in the military industry, but that should certainly do much. These must not only be military projects, but can also be used for civil purposes. One of these projects, where the state has both importance and interest, is that much more is done on the commercial side of project development projects, etc. The second project is just a project to develop weapons to deter greater range. All of these could be the internal pillars of one political-economic stability, of course, stronger economies and what apparently is no longer in the state of Serbia, and this is the possibility that we have such an army capable of preventing any thought of any aggression. So, the military industry certainly won't be reborn in the way you imagined, through this kind of vision, to say, trying to improve exports, but when it essentially gets to develop what needs to be placed as a militaryly equipped and respectable state. Of course, all this requires certain knowledge of electronics, electromagnetics and all that is good for our science. Unfortunately, in the state of Serbia today there is not enough wisdom to finance a long-standing development programme, to win those components, though, as far as we know, we have such experts, not much, but enough. It is clear that world practice, in the end, also requires that development leads at least to two competing groups to stimulate both. One is the state capital, and the other is private capital. Surely we could have in a few years the products we could export, which could bring to the state certain financial resources, but the way it's done now. The fact would be that Serbia would also have a political asset, which is that it is able to sell weapons in so-called crisis areas if they are not met. That all these facts have been taken into account for sure that Serbia would have long been a country that would have been integrated in these world flows in this sense, and not as it has been, except, in shape, to say, praised by the defence ministry and in some contracts and businesses, it is said that the Serbian military industry is returning to the big door to the world stage, etc. It is clear that it is purely political marketing and that the situation in the military industry is much more difficult than it is in the media. There are specific examples for this, unfortunately, of the light. From what's left in the military industry, you know the situation yourself. So we think one serious turn is necessary in this whole story. What is the problem is that the government obviously lacks energy and strength and capacity to try to solve this problem on a different basis. I'll just give you one more piece of information. In the past few years, in an attempt to penetrate the world market, all these contacts that the state has used, as a country that has both a good position and within the Unclassified Movement, of course it has failed in the right way to realise, so that there is a lot of work to be done and modernisation, on everything that needs to be done, that the industry, which is usually the fastest to develop after agriculture, actually comes into that position to allow Serbia, or its citizens, to do much more than it is right now. I'm not going to remind you of the recent tragedy that was at the "Freedom" factory in Cačka, because it's all just one logical clue to the situation in which the military industry has been in the last decade. On the other hand, the generally known and unequivocal attitude of the SRS is related to such a way of giving guarantees, so, as far as we are concerned, we consider that radical, fundamental changes in the functioning of the military industry are needed, and that should therefore bring something that will in future avoid such draft laws that we have on the agenda today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50152	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) Mr. Radojko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, within this agenda, we have two points concerning direct finance and something that is your responsibility, they will be discussed separately. The first item is the Guarantee Act in favour of the Serbian Bank, and this one again for the benefit of the Jugoimport-SDPR, which concerns one export business. In any case, it is one of the few good things we discussed here, and it is again about Serbia's return to some of the markets it was present in, with products with which it was also present. I regret to say that some other ministers aren't this agile. For example, next to the dedicated industry, one of our biggest export products was the construction industry. If the construction industry had support similar to this, surely we would be moving back to those billion euros that the construction industry brought Serbia from some foreign markets, so before we look at the projects in the country, we see that all the key projects work by foreign companies, and that according to the special law on aiding the construction industry, our construction industry only gets crumbs, builds high-building. These are some jobs that can hardly appear anywhere abroad. I am particularly interested in what you said at the very end, which is that this project proves the commitment of the government to a new growth model, which is based on exports and investment. That would be very good if that were true. It's clear that one of the owners doesn't make spring. We haven't seen each other in, like, two months. Two months ago, the budget was adopted and during the past two months, as long as the Assembly did not sit, except on TV we had no opportunity to talk to you live, and Serbian citizens and MPs learned and met several extremely important things. It became clear in these two months that the government has only one and only top priority, which is borrowing in favour of budgeting. It became completely clear and unequivocal. The IMF told us in these two months that there are 423,000 unemployed in Serbia, what is the formal part and the informal part. The Prime Minister finally beat his hand on a table and told all Serbian citizens clearly who was responsible for 400,000 unemployed in Serbia. The Prime Minister has removed the cause of unemployment. It was obviously just one very powerful minister who managed to make so much unemployment, and we expect that employment will start growing drastically next month. In these two months, we've seen the shortages, which were far in our minds, appear again. When you go to the store and ask where the flour is, those salesgirls suddenly say to you, "Well, there's no flour." And when you ask which shelf is the sugar, again, with the surprise of the saleswoman, they say, "Well, sir, there's no sugar." Do you know that meat consumption has fallen to the lowest level in the last few decades? To us, who have kids who go to school top priority is when are children going to go to school normally? Educational workers continue to strike. And when educators ask for higher salaries, then the government gets a signal that they're destroying the state, and when a signal comes from the government that some ministers don't respect the law and break the law directly, then the state doesn't collapse. Now, that's us, that's just some of the things we've seen in these two months. Do you think that's how problems will be solved, is that a new model of growth? Do you know that the investments that were the basis for the new growth model in 2010 were less than the ones that were extremely difficult in 2009, 5% less investment in 2010, than they were in 2009. Is that how we're gonna achieve a new growth model? Mrs Dragutinović, do you know, you should know, of course, at what rate the costs of your running economic policy increase. The 2008 budget left 14 billion on interest payments, 2009-20 billion, 2010 – 35 billion, 2011 – 46 billion, so only on interest payments. It's only 6% of the entire budget that goes to interest, we're not talking about majors, we're only talking about interest. What can we expect in 2012, what is this percentage going to be and how can we expect that wages and pensions will be higher? Of course we can. Then we can regret to realize that there is no money. And what shall we do until the time when it is due to be said – there is money or no money? You yourself said that one of the basic laws your ministry makes, these are tax laws, these fundamental laws have been changed by amendments, so you yourself said you didn't recognize them. It is one thing that the Assembly has the right to adopt amendments, but another thing is whether the Government has policies in certain areas, how this policy is changed and how basic laws are established. You're changing the laws by amendments, you don't even know what the results of these amendments are. So, what can we expect in Serbia? When we listen to what your former secretary of state says, that's the reason for fear and the reason for fear. It just proves that your ministry has absolutely no control. I don't know if anyone in this country knows how much Serbia owes. When we look at the reports from your ministry's site, the second item will be the new 400 million to support the budget. Another 200 million arrived, in one case the euro, again to support the EU budget, an auction of state records from 9 February – 200 million, with a realisation of 100 %, 200 million euros, of course, on 14 February – 200 million euros, but the realization of 48%, a plan for the first three months plus this, 84 billion state records. No one can follow that anymore and no one can count. And the result – 423,000 unemployed, no new salaries for educators, announced strike in health care, no one knows whether in three days they will collect electricity, no one knows whether there will be sugar, whether there will be meat, and we are talking about a new model of growth. Let's just let it go so we don't have a new model of growth, it might be better than this. You haven't said a word about what public debt is and how you change methodology. You think the methodology will fix the way you live? As soon as the public debt grows, we change the methodology, so now the public debt is smaller than it was a month ago. People don't work, nothing works, and we get richer and richer. Well, that would have been nice if you'd come up with that growth model. And, you know, you keep avoiding it here, you call in the end, you give us an answer to any essential question, and you think problems will be solved by themselves. Here, we have seen, just for the last seven days, based on what has been happening in the ruling coalition, what are the essential problems in Serbia. Well, just read what your prime minister said, I guess he's making a decision or someone else is doing it. It's our reality, and the sooner you finish your job, the better for all of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50154	Mr. Zoran Kasalovic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50155	The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the SPS-JS will support the bill on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Serbian Bank, a.d. Belgrade for the obligations of JP "Jugoimport-SDPR", primarily for the reason that this bill is in the function of realising a very important export business of our dedicated industry. We believe that such a job is an example of how Serbia can realise its development prospects and development potential. Serbia, it is quite clear and all relevant economists say, came out of a period when it had a significant inflow and income based on privatisation funds, too, based on the donation, but also large and high public spending. Unfortunately, there is a significant decrease in foreign capital inflows during this period, and it is clear that these are the facts of the global economic crisis. In these conditions, the Government of the Republic of Serbia must define itself as leading an economic policy that is both socially sustainable and in this sense, the SPS-JS gives full support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, according to the Minister's opening statement, already has a policy that represents a new model of growth according to basic certain indicators, but we also want these indicators to be in the function of real improvement of the standards of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And, of course, because of these factors that I have presented, it is necessary for the Republic of Serbia to work first and foremost to increase its economy's competitiveness, which will not be at all an easy job in the coming period, it will pose a significant challenge for the government of the Republic of Serbia, and also an increase in exports, which, in the best sense, represents this job. And that, in our view, is the only possible way for the Republic of Serbia to achieve a realistic improvement in the standard of living of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because that is the only way to ensure a more significant real rate of growth of the gross social product, which will certainly reflect the better life of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This law, as we have heard, needs first of all to regulate the commitment of the Republic of Serbia as a guarantee for the reconciliation of the obligations of the "Yugoimport-SDPR" and should certainly be supported, because the commitment and work of the Ministry of Defence and the Public Enterprise, within its jurisdiction, to find new markets and realise military equipment and weapons by model to restore ties with former partners and SFRY and other countries, as well as markets that represent potential based on purchasing power, is a good example of how the Republic of Serbia can realise its potential and a good example of how it should behave in all other segments that represent one kind of comparative advantage of the Republic of Serbia. It should be pointed out that it is a business that has been increased multiplely in relation to the amounts achieved during a previous period and certainly the SPS-JS wants to support this way of working, this way of presenting the Republic of Serbia in the domain of the dedicated industry. And we want to support in this respect this law which will certainly realise a significant export job for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50156	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Mr. Arsic, in what capacity are you reporting? You're not an authorised representative. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've heard the Minister of Finance talk about our development, about our military industry or the dedicated industry, which was dead in the past. I wish there was a minister of defense, because he would know it much more clearly to praise us, to tell us, that's how our intended works now, and all thanks to him and the SDPR. But let's be honest, let's take a look at what SDPR is. SDPR is one parasite of our dedicated industry. (I'd ask a suspicious person not to throw it at me anymore, because this isn't about a swastika's butt or a prison recipe, it's about counterguarantees! ) So, SDPR is the parasite of our dedicated industry, which deals with selling other people's brains, other people's work and other people's products, and all under the pretext that it facilitates selling the products of the dedicated industry. However, not only does the SDPR not only make it easier, but, wherever it is not, it interferes. It is a public secret that whoever wants to make any arrangement with any defence ministry in the world without the SDPR will experience a terrible obstruction of our state authorities, starting with imports and customs duties of repromation for the production of such products, obtaining the consent of our state authorities, so that in the end, our state authority for the previously issued consent will also write that it has been falsified. And should I say that if someone forged such a permit, why is no single criminal act against such a person to this day? Let's take a look at what it looks like. I claim that our dedicated industry would be far easier, far better, to reduce its appetites and help them, not in trade, but in obtaining proper documentation for the export of our dedicated industry products. This is how it happens that our domestic factories invest in production, invest in the qualification of labour force, invest in knowledge, in the product, and the money gets SDPR – and will leave our dedicated just enough to receive what kind of wages and just enough to keep them a little bit longer to develop. What about that extra-profit that got the SDPR? Well, that's where they'll have to pay their salaries to directors, board members and other employees, who, thanks to the monopoly position given to them by the Ministry of Defense, have so many payments. We now come to a situation that the Republic of Serbia should issue a counter-guarantee. If SDPR did not behave like this, guarantees would have to be required from the banks by arms manufacturers, or manufacturers in the dedicated industry, and there would be no problem if they themselves received guarantees from banks. This way, Madam Minister, we're reducing the credit rating state. You know for a fact that every guarantee enters the credit rating of the Republic of Serbia, but what is the biggest problem is that every time we look at the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we notice one item there that says - reconciliations based on the guarantees reached. Therefore, we have repeatedly spent billions of dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget to pay compensation for the guarantees we have issued to certain public enterprises, which have not settled their obligations. Madam Minister, I have never been able to find out in the Republic of Serbia's budget what public enterprises are and whether we are going to redistribute these same guarantees again, that they are still in debt, and that we are paying off their duties from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, another question -- is this how it's going to be with the SDPR? The problem here, apparently, is in one concept of the development of our dedicated industry. So we only in the state made some agency, which is called the Foreign Investment Agency and the promotion of exports. I don't know how many foreign investments she actually made. We can't get a report. Its purpose was to at least assist exporters in the placement of their goods and services and the collection of their goods and services. And that's why she took one commission. I don't have to say that one who's capable of exporting goods wouldn't know how to do it alone. I don't see why we're paying that agency out of the budget. But the SDPR has overcome one of these agencies. He doesn't have any production drives. He only has offices and monopoly that gave him the Ministry of Defence to sell the products of the dedicated industry, and not for some special fee that was intervening between the arms manufacturer and the buyer, but appears as a trading partner. That's what this whole problem is, and I think it's the SDPR that's holding back the development of our dedicated industry, which instead of focusing money on opening new jobs, directing it into development, directing that money into wages in the SDPR. Because of all this, the SNS Parliamentary Group will not vote in the voting day for this SDPR guarantee bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50158	Thank you. Does anyone else from the president want a word? (Yes) The word is by Mr Ivan Andric, the authorised representative of the LDP Group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50159	Thank you, Madam President. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, and as you have seen from the speeches, surprised us by this lack of the assembly majority to unite the debate, so the much greater debate will be in the agenda that we thought would be connected with this, so that citizens don't think it's an atmosphere, that it's the result of some mood in the Assembly, as the government's behaviour. As far as this bill of law and counterguarantee is concerned, I must say that, regardless of this previous speaker and his understanding of the subject, it seems to us here as one of the few, not to say the only case in which it is justified to ask for money from the National Assembly from the perspective of state policy. In our opinion, and this will be expressed particularly in the debate on the second item of the agenda, this is what every procedure should look like when the government comes and addresses the Serbian Parliament asking it for any living money, any confirmation or support for borrowing or for giving a counter-guarantee. It is very clear, I am sure that the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the SDPR, will also deliver that contract that mentions and no questions and discussions on this can be held. So it's about smart investment and smart allocations, which will bring in some new funds. What is unacceptable to us is to keep quiet the moment in which this country is located, because we expected from the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or, more specifically, ministers of the non-existent Government of the Republic of Serbia to say at least a word about what has been going on in the past seven days and how this will affect the government's work, among other things, and this job, as well as what debate is expected in the Assembly. Instead, we got one straw grab, I'd call it that, because this is the only export business discussed or discussed in the Assembly, and based on it, your assessment of the export-based model yields results, so one of the key evidence is this. Another key evidence is that imports fell – he did not fall because the external trade deficit fell, but because there are no imports, because citizens have no money to buy anything or stuff from imports. I think that such a situation is more due to it, not some incredible energy that has emerged in the Serbian economy where our exports have resulted. But let's leave it for debate on item two of the agenda. What's really unacceptable is that we all behave today in the congregation like nothing happened last week. From the point of view of someone who's trying to deal with politics, as serious as that, this has really turned into a theater. You come on behalf of a non-existent government, not because of your position, but because the reconstruction of that government has been announced in the next seven days. At the beginning of the session, we found the resignation of one vice president, two ministers and, then, the most relaxed, as if any other day of the year, we were going to discuss the counterguarantees of the SDPR on some export business, for which no one at this time knows if it will happen. So, will this work be if there are elections, will Mr Sutanovac be the defence minister or prime minister, whether Mirko Cvetkovic, the current prime minister, also broke down this morning, and told the president of the state that he had replaced someone else simply, that is the atmosphere in which we live. We were expecting a bar on behalf of the government, unfortunately, you, I believe not by your own free will, came on behalf of that government. But, you know what, MPs are... (President: Mr. Andric, please compare the terms with the functions, when you talk about Mr. Prime Minister, that's what I meant. I'm sorry. It's about the association. I'm sorry. It wasn't my intention to insult him, it was the appearance of an untamed mountain range, which rose on Monday and destroyed the political system because someone made a statement, not a contribution, to political stability. It wasn't my intention to insult him, it was just what it seemed to me. After three years of silence, one morning he decided to take matters into his own hands and change everything?- I'm sorry. It's easy. It's all yours. It's no problem. We expected at least a few words about it, some belief that everything would be okay, which we do not expect, because we have our own opinion on it, but unlike the government sessions or coalition meetings, there is also a transfer here at the Public Service and this session of citizens – I think they are very afraid of it when the Assembly ignores some reality. I don't think we have the right to act as if that reality doesn't exist and to do something that has reached the agenda of some of our dynamics, and that we need to pass the procedure in the Assembly: did this proposal have a majority, is there a ruling majority? You know, there's got to be a little picture of that context that we live in. With all my desire and good intentions, I believe you that this year will be the year in which Serbian exports will dominate, and that a new model of economic growth will be set on it, which will be neither know nor know what kind of, I know very well what country I live in, and I know that of these other things, which no one in the ruling coalition has spoken of today, depends on the fate of each of us in every sense. We know very well that political opportunities are not such in this country that, regardless of the political situation, the development of a political situation, we can claim that this contract will be implemented by the end. It's the least important question, although it's not about the small amount of money, of the counter-guarantee, which will also fail, but it's not about that. The bottom line is that this trend that the government fell into after these hasty or insatiable decisions, it doesn't matter, it's a matter of the ruling coalition, which rocked this country last week, so the citizens, like in Algeria or Libya, watched television and watched everything happen by the end of the day, and then there was no serious political reaction to it, which would convince us that it makes sense for us to sit here today and discuss things that are really regular, and before things that will decide the future of this country in many other ways. So, does it make sense to talk about this agenda item, the next agenda points on Thursday, if we're going to the March 2nd election? It's a bit of a waste of meaning, completely. I understand the desire for the situation to appear bright, beautiful and sunny and that everything is regular, but it's not regular. We don't even know if you're going to be a minister. It obviously started to depend on how Mirko Cvetkovic wakes up and whether he has an impulse on his mobile phone to call Tadic, but simply to invest some seriousness, let's get back to our reality. We think that if a government reconstruction or any serious political change is announced, then it's not serious to pretend it doesn't exist. Perhaps it was still necessary to wait another seven, eight or ten days and in light of these new circumstances to discuss the points of the agenda, perhaps not this one, it is too regular and too positive that anyone who wishes good to this country would have something against, but rather believe that the next debate will be conducted completely in that tone and I expect you to paint some context, at least as much as it is to the extent that your profession and your competence in your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50160	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) National MPs, you received a notice from Ivana Vojnovic, an authorised LDP person, that there was a reason for the termination of the term of office before the end of the period to which Dr Vladan Batic, who passed away on 29 December 2010, as well as a Report of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the purpose of considering this notice, which found that the case of Article 88, paragraph 8 of the Law on the selection of MPs and proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (8) is replaced by the following: The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the term of office, before the election of the elected MP Dr Vladan Batic, elected from the Electoral List of LDP - Cedomir Jovanovic, on the day of his death, has expired. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50161	The president, the minister, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, well, there's not much interest in this point. I think everyone's surprised by the fact that there weren't enough votes to connect the dots, so Mr. Andric spoke, so I'm saying. Perhaps it was better to speak again to someone from the ruling coalition, to re-deaden that atmosphere, so that we speak, purely, to make it more dynamic, since it obviously is not at all. Madam Minister, I don't know if you planned to be here this morning for two debates of five hours, or three, four hours, or if you planned to be in parliament in the morning, and in the afternoon to do something at the ministry, given that the Ministry's team was weakened a few days ago, so I guess now it's harder to cover these jobs covered by Mr. Ilic, not to say a face, to say G17 plus colleagues. On the other hand, it's kind of more natural, if it's already been some idea to merge the agenda points, maybe this point should be connected to points 3 and 4. It was seen from your introduction, which was reduced, above all, to the financial part, more or less. It wasn't what might be in this kind of contract, it's also important, and it's some political context in which it's being concluded, export prospects that depend not only on the ability of people who are employed or who run the SDPR, or who work in the dedicated industry, but also on the situation in parts of the world in which we intend to export the products of the dedicated industry. If there was no willingness to talk about the causes, scales and solutions of the political crisis in Serbia, you might have been able to start with the crisis in Algeria and that part of the world, which this contract obviously refers to. However, there will be likely opportunities through the next item of the agenda and Thursday when we talk about the public sector in public enterprises. Mr. Obradovic mentioned, we haven't seen each other in two months, and in the meantime, important things happened. Some of them have something to do with your portfolio. It's been denied in a certain way by the optimism you had here at the end of December. There have been several scandals you too owe us an answer if Mr Cvetkovic is not already in parliament, as he was not at the time when the budget was adopted. Let me remind you, we had a problem with double excise duties on oil derivatives, which have not been solved yet, for which a solution for the end of January was announced, and for February, then for half of March. At this point, it's extremely uncertain whether it's going to happen. On the other hand, amendments to the Value Added Tax Act were returned to this parliament, if I remember correctly, given the mistakes he had and that amendments to the ruling coalition were adopted on December 29th at midnight. We are expected in a few months and a new scandal that will happen at the moment when new amounts of property tax begin to arrive, and at that moment there will be no explanation enough that this year the growth of the tax liability is limited by 60% of the people whose salary has increased by 1% or 2%, and no percentage will be in a situation where the government, in practice, has no economic part of the portfolio, the vice-president who runs those portfolios, etc. Finally, this is one of the few occasions when we can in some way praise the guarantee this country gives, but perhaps the opportunity to take seriously into account the quality of other guarantees, or the way they function, in which cases or in what amounts the state actually pays the amount it has given as a guarantee instead of a primary debtor. Mr. Arsic said he didn't see that kind of information. Some of these data are seen, for example, in the 2009 State Audit Institutions Report, and when we put aside that story about the mergers, the kevapi in the ministries, in one or another methodology under which the National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance pay the debt, i.e. how they book the funds reserved by the IMF, it is evident that in 2009, if we remember well, 70m euros paid by guarantees made for the EPS, "The Roads of Serbia", "The Railways of Serbia", if I remember correctly. I see you're not convinced of that. We have the next item on the agenda so we can quote that part of the State Audit Institution Report. In any case, what is a fact, regardless of who the users were, no euro or any money paid by the Republic of Serbia in 2009 instead of public enterprises for which it was guaranteed was not returned, i.e. no regression request has been charged to these companies. We have reported this to the State Auditing Institution and this is in its 2009 report. We did so in accordance with the provisions of the Public Debt Act. Nothing in that section is disputed except that at all times we give a guarantee. I am not talking about this, but about guarantees for "Serbigas" for EPS and all other losing public enterprises, which we know in advance that the state will pay instead of a primary debtor, or a public enterprise that certainly does not have those funds for different reasons; in the case of EPS or "Colubara" due to excessive engagement of additional machinery, in some other cases due to party governance. It doesn't make any difference from this aspect of the budget. At the very end, you haven't answered your word yet, I expect you might do so in the follow-up of this discussion, so that you can comment on some of the steps of the MPs, let's say, those who talked about that there's nothing going on in the SDPR, that it works as a mediator who has an office and has no drive to produce the product of the dedicated industry. That's true, but then we have to be consistent to the end. The same is said for, say, Jugorosgas, which does not have any gas source, has no gas delivery equipment, acts as a classic monopolies and intermediate enterprise. That, unlike the SDPR, which is at least owned by our country, Jugorosgas is mostly owned by another state. If someone already has that kind of political attitude, then it would have to be consistent to the end and advocate first and foremost to remove from that traffic or the way our public enterprises and ministries of those enterprises owned by most of the other state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50162	The People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I will begin the presentation with several aspects that we must open. The first is the legal aspect of this bill. We will also point to the production aspect, which stems from the provisions of this law, and the export-sex trade aspect, which this law has. It's a controversial legal aspect. Why? By the provision of Article 16(4) to which you are invited, I will read it – the guarantee referred to in Article 1 and Article 2 of this Article is given in the form of the law, and that is not disputed, attitude 3 – the Republic may provide guarantees under Article 1 and Article 2 of this Article in accordance with the law governing the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the current year. I will read the provisions of the 2011 Budget Act, which is said in Article 3(a) – in 2011 a guarantee of RS will be issued up to a amount of 312 billion 33 million 848 thousand 230 dinars, i.e. 2,110,797,093 euros or $ 920 million. In Article 3. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia does not stand at any place by the approval or authority to grant a guarantee. In this article we have several points that talk about guarantees and conditions for giving guarantees. From what I've said, we don't have a legal foothold here, and I call on the Minister of Finance to withdraw this law. We're not talking about production and export aspects, we're only talking about legal ones. There are no legal provisions for the adoption of this law. In addition, when we talk about the legal aspect, we need to take into account several more legal elements which, unfortunately, the current government does not seem sufficient. In some situations, assembly committees and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia receive provisions of the contract. In this case, we need to have, in order to be able to pass laws, guarantee contracts and counter-guarantee contracts. We do not have guarantee contracts and counter-guarantee contracts, and we cannot ratify this contract from that aspect, because we only ratify it based on a letter from the Ministry of Finance, which is translated into the bill. Therefore, Mrs Dragutinovic, I call on you not to meet the legal assumptions for the adoption of this law and you do not have in your budget an item for the adoption of this law, you do not have the fulfilment of the conditions of Articles 16 and 4 and you must withdraw this. Here's another argument in the legal sense for all the reasons you've stated, and the explanation has been made broadly and extensively. However, you did not specify everything you were supposed to say, and you hid it. It explains, Chapter IVThe estimated amount of financial resources needed to implement the law – "For the implementation of this law, funds will be provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. ''You, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Public Debt, and given the provisions of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, must have the means and you do not have them in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This can't go away. This can't go away. This is bad practice. This isn't the first law to pass this way. The SRS has repeatedly pointed out, so it's telling you now. You can't do this. In the Republic of Serbia's budget, you have provided items worth 300m euros and some billion euros for guarantees that you will give to certain contracts that will be concluded by legal entities from the Republic of Serbia. You don't have a provision in business banks that points to the possibility of a guarantee. The question arises – does the Republic of Serbia have a chance to issue such large guarantees with these financial and fiscal problems? It's over three billion euros, about three billion euros. You're expanding them now. We will probably get another guarantee or counter-guarantee contract in the third or fourth months that will further increase this amount. How far is it going? Do we, Mrs Dragutinović, know how far this will go? We don't know. That's why I suggest we don't break the law. This is not just a provision of the Law on Public Debt, it is the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. You can't propose a law like this. I warn you, the SRS has repeatedly pointed to such failures. This must no longer be tolerated. Drag this law, preserve honor and honor of this Parliament and your ministry, and we will preserve everything we have to preserve, because we simply don't have a legal foothold here, and we don't have a financial foothold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50164	National MP Milan Lapcevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50165	The Honored Presidency, Madam Minister, has been proposed a law granting guarantees for SDPR for exports of dedicated products to Algeria, which is one of the ways you said, to resuscitate the balance of payments and to reduce that deficit that, you say, since 2008, when it was 18%, fell to 8% in 2010. You forgot to say one thing, that the reduction was most summed up by the reduction in imports, not by some increased exports. The data suggests that imports have been down 40% since you led the government compared to 2008. Today, in addition to this point, the agenda and a proposal for the ratification of loans by the Sosite General Bank is for the new $400m, which will be used to fill the budget deficit of the Republic of Serbia, which this year amounts to about 100 billion dinars, or about a billion euros. Let's take a look at what that money's used for. At the end of last year, the government decided to employ new 735 civil servants in a total of 36 ministries, administrations, agencies and directors. As I recall, two years ago, pressure from the IMF during the first negotiations, the government fired 3,400 officials. In this House, we have passed a law limiting the maximum number of officials in the state administration to 28,400 of those 3,400 officials, the largest number of them, not to say that almost everyone, has received stimulating severances. It hasn't been two years, you approve of hiring new 735 officials and, of course, increasing the state administration, which is otherwise too big, and we all know is the burden of this country, to spend too much money on the state administration compared to some other costs, but regardless, you're making a decision to hire new 735 officials. This can probably be identified by the new 735 party listeners. In your ministry, instead of the 200 so far, another 71 people will work, even though you have paid compensation for six people in this discharge of 1.2 million dinars. And you explained this, that you needed 70 more people to work to comply with Serbian laws and EU standards; as if two years ago you didn't know that you needed these people and that you couldn't do these jobs yourself. 39 more people will be employed at the Ministry of Energy. In the PIO Fund, which has 3,133 employees, another 100 people will be employed. In addition to the current 280, another 26 people will be employed at the Privatisation Agency. As much as I remember, and I suppose Serbian citizens, the Privatisation Agency was supposed to finish the privatisation process in 2008, so that this job extended by another two years, by nature of things, privatisation was near the end and those 280 people probably finished their jobs, and I ask you – what will the new 26 people who are scheduled to be admitted to the Privatisation Agency do? 19 more people will be admitted to the Regional Development Agency, along with 50 existing ones. In the General Secretariat of the Government, 80 officials are not enough to serve this government, but it is necessary to receive another 20. Ten people worked in the decentralisation Council, and another 27 will be received, etc. A total of 735 new officials will likely spend a good part of the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget on their salaries, contributing to other costs. And for this, the state of Serbia, since there is not enough inflows in the budget, will have to be in debt to cover a huge budget deficit, which I have already mentioned, amounts to over a billion euros – so every year, the "new growth model", as you mentioned. And this new growth is seen in the rise of employment in the state administration, in the growth of layoffs, from 2008 to 2011 – 400,000 people lost their jobs, in inflation growth, which last year was 11.4%, and this year alone is 2%, and this year alone, in January alone, it is projected to be 14% at this rate of inflation growth this year, as well as in the trend of the growth of the unemployed. So it's the only growth trend this country is recording. However, I must be honest, there is a trend of growth in the exports of the dedicated industry, you mentioned that it was 80 million, and now it has grown to 250, but it is a weak comfort for this country, which every year, under your patronage as the finance minister and this government leading this country, spends a billion euros more than it earns. Not to talk about how the ministries function, how other institutions and public enterprises function. Therefore, it should not be surprising that the information that probably our fellow citizens also know, but I do not know in what extent, that the "Serb Railway" received 142 new workers, without competitions, also at the end of last year, and quotas for admission have been distributed by the director of Railways, trade unions and various other directors of the Serbian railway sector, which this country finances with 16.5 billion dinars annually. Out of 18,500 workers, working on Serbia's railways, new 142 people will be employed, mostly without professional training. The increase in the number of workers allowed the Serbian government, adopting the 2010 Business Plan, and the reason is the threat of the work process. Watch out for another wonderful sentence – public enterprises have left many over the past years because of the conditions for retirement or with stimulating severances, the vast majority along with this others, and the job has started to suffer. Only in December last year, 600 people went along with stimulating severances, which cost the state probably a lot of money, but that's no reason not to take in the new 140 people, so let's say that some cook will take care of freight as a car messenger, which requires a four-year-old railway school, a man without a railway school will be in charge of transporting a dangerous burden, and a mining engineer will be the manager of a transport and commercial service at the station, etc. It's a picturesque example of how you see the state and what your economic policy is. The government's economic policy in which you, as finance minister, sit, is devastating for this country. It has been shown in these three years that your economic experts know that they are doing when the euro was raised by more than 30%, brought it to over 100 dinars, when all the prices went to heaven, when they brought the country to that end, this country where Milos Obrenovic was proud and sold agricultural products and meat to the West, that there is not enough milk, but that he has to import, and the prices of meat and the situation on the market are more than catastrophic. In any case, the difficult situation was completed by the Deputy Prime Minister who took care of regional development, the economy of Serbia, the economy and the employment that you chased, although he didn't think much about, so he fled from the sinking ship. We hope that this agony, produced by the leadership of the country this three years, will not last long, that very quickly the extraordinary parliamentary elections that will bring more responsible people to power, who will lead this country honestly and who will say what needs to be done so as not to touch the bottom that is near to us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50166	National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50167	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we are at the first session in 2011. The first job of the National Assembly is, in fact, the first thing that the National Assembly is considering is giving a guarantee for the obligations of JP "Jugoimport", and immediately after that, the second item of the agenda, and that borrowing, taking a new loan. Otherwise, it is known, but because of the citizens who are following this session, it is up to me to point out that what will be on the agenda of the National Assembly session is decided by representatives of Serbia's parties. Now the citizens of Serbia are simply thrilled that the first job the government is carrying out this year is Serbia's new borrowing. All other problems can wait, can be solved later or delayed for another time, and the priority of all priorities cannot wait. The pre-election campaign has been going on a lot. Those who are in power use the budget money for personal promotion and promotion of their parties in a very interesting way. All of what is done with taxpayers' money, each bridge, a road share or invested money for new jobs, all of this is presented as a personal credit to an individual, who allegedly contributed greatly to making things better in a particular area, as if it were not a commitment and a job for those who exercise power. I don't want to repeat what we were talking about when the 2011 budget was adopted, that it was built according to the pre-election year, of course, the measures are against the parties that make up power. Due to the disproportionateness of income and expenditures, which otherwise amount to 120.5 billion dinars this year, here, already at the first session, began to be in debt, to take the money immediately, and how after six years will return, that care should be cared for by someone else. In addition to this borrowing, which will later be discussed, today's session is also on the agenda of the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Serbian Bank for the obligations of JP "Jugoimport". The characteristic of this guarantee is that it is not foreseen by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011. Article 3, of this law, defined that in 2011, a guarantee of 312 billion dinars would be issued. Then all 36 guarantees are provided for, among them there is no guarantee that we are talking about today. Of course, an excuse is always found, so it's just a reason for the law being passed in some way an excuse, more specifically, the very beginning of where the motionary calls to Article 16. The Public Debt Act, which stipulates that the Republic can provide a guarantee for the reconciliation of the debt of public enterprises of which it is the founder. Among the planned guarantees that will be issued in 2011, which I repeat, 36, is interesting that the largest number is foreseen for "Electroprivred Serbia", "Puteve Serbia", "The Railways of Serbia", "Transnaftu", "Serbigas" and, of course, under the term, the inevitable, "Fiat", though, one guarantee, but the amount is not insignificant – 14.85 billion dinars. The debate on the granting of this guarantee for the obligations of JP "Yugoimport" could raise some questions. In fact, one very important thing is noticeable, which is breaking the name around the EU story, as Serbia's most significant economic partner and the story of Serbia's European future, which has no alternative at all. The proposal for this guarantee law completely negates such stories. I repeat "story" a few times, because it really is just stories. It is true that the so-promised European future of Serbia would mean no better position for Serbia's citizens than it is at the moment; a market where they aim to place their products without customs, a market for cheap labour, so cheap that it is almost not for free, as well as a space from which they do not want most of the products, which they have skillfully conditioned by establishing standards that producers in Serbia will not be able to fully meet for many years, which is due to administrative procedures and obstacles, which due to financial inability. On the other hand, some other markets show the need for certain products produced in Serbia. As a reason for this guarantee being issued, it is stated that this is done with the aim of increasing exports, as one of the preconditions for the development of economies and increasing the competitiveness of domestic economy. Some of the main objectives of the strategy for increasing Serbia's exports for the period 2008 to 2011. One of them is the participation, i.e. the entry of domestic operators into new markets. These new markets are grouped into a group of markets with high growth potential or high purchasing power, and into a group of markets that were traditional partners in external trade with the former SFRY. It seems that many traditional partners, who have deliberately forgotten or neglected power for the past ten years by running their heads regardless of the promised European Union, have not deserved to be forgotten, as it is somehow easier to restore co-operation with them. Lately, television or press releases could not be included without you seeing boasting that exports of dedicated products from Serbia have been increased in the military industry and that new jobs are expected, and imports of these products are just the former partners of Yugoslavia: Algeria, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya. Just the guarantee we are talking about today is issued by the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Serbian Bank, and in case "Jugoimport" fails to return the accepted advance to the other side -- the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria. It is the amount of 42.11m euros increased by the amount of fees and expenses. That's 15% of the value of the contract. Of course, export operations require the state to provide support, whether in the form of guarantees or in any other form, but it is also understood that an Algerian party's request to guarantee the return of advances is also required. It seems that although people are geographically far from us, they are well informed about the situation in Serbian public enterprises. A, exports of dedicated military industry products are carried out exclusively through the Public Enterprise Jugoimport. During the presentation of this bill, we heard from Madam Minister that in recent years there has been an increase in the number of employees in this branch based on the growth of production. On behalf of the SRS, I would ask the question – has the state singled out any amount of subsidies for these new jobs and has any of the money that has been made on this basis, based on the exports of these products, invested in improving production capacities and equipment? The situation in Serbia is such that a large number of people remain out of work every day and it is good to finally understand that turning towards co-operation with traditional partners may be able to improve the state of unemployment in Serbia. A huge damage has been done to expect a better European tomorrow. This expectation has led to a reduction of the stock, imports of milk powder, slaughtering stone cows, abandoning fruit plantings, in one word, to the destruction of the Serbian agricultural producer. All that agricultural producers produce is not competitive on our Serbian market either, as products from imports are cheaper. The poor village, the poor workers, the unemployed army. It's a picture of today's Serbia conditioned by waiting for a better tomorrow. It's the last time he realizes there's no use in waiting. We in the SRS understand that it is not easy for authorities to recognise that some other countries are better economic partners in Serbia than EU member states, because the previous election campaign was based on the story of European integration. There's been a lot of campaigns for new elections, and stories like that can't be fooled anymore, so now new ideas are being found. This ten-year lesson was very instructive and it confirmed that old folk saying: 'Don't close the old well, if you're already going to dig a new one. '"Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50168	National MP Vladan Jeremic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50169	Thank you. Here, Mrs Dragutinovic, I am trying here in this country, which is not in charge and where the government is leading the responsible economic policy, to bring into some logical relationship of this paper that I have today, so we are not succeeding, starting with what the afternoon will be, and this is this $400m to refinance debts and finance the budget deficit, to bring into contact with the bill that we are talking about today, a bill which the Republic of Serbia undertakes to settle as a guarantee the obligations of the Public Enterprise "Jugoimport-SDPR" to an amount of just over 42m euros. Then, I cannot ignore the facts of some other laws, and this is probably the country where the laws are respected, so the Law on Public Debt in Article 16 says the Republic can provide a guarantee under Article 1 and Article 2 of this article, in accordance with the law governing the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the current year. I have one more piece of paper, and I guess that's the most important law, the 2011 Bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which we are in, Article 3, of that same law, says -- in 2011, the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia will be issued to the amount of that and that, well, in dinars, dollars, euros, however, are pretty large figures, and what is my biggest problem is that I can't find a connection anywhere with what we're talking about today and what I'm assuming a congregation majority will grant approval to adopt, therefore, a bill on borrowing for the "Southport-SDPR" obligations. So I really don't understand, first and foremost, in that legal sense, and economically, what we're talking about today. Article 3 The bill makes it clear and loud that the guarantee, i.e. the state of Serbia, undertakes to provide in the budget for the appropriate year, which is probably this 2011, the means necessary for the implementation of the commitments made under this guarantee. It's not here. As an explanation, i.e. the reason for this whole story, we have that one of the main objectives of the Export Increase Strategy, which was adopted, should, I guess, be to deny all data concerning Serbia's exports, which are devastating, is the entry of domestic operators into new markets, which will significantly contribute to the geographical diversification of exports to new markets that can be grouped into two groups, and that is: markets with high growth potential or high purchasing power and those markets that were traditional partners in external trade with the former SFRY. We talked about some jobs, and one of the potential new markets belongs to both groups, the National Democratic Republic of Algeria market, which, in line with the GDP growth rate and the volume of external trade with the former SFRY and according to the criteria of the Strategy, belongs to the order of countries with a moderated GDP rate and a relatively high tradition of external trade. I don't mean to be malpractice, but, all these events over the past months, or two, in the North of Africa, I can quite question the credibility of a decision like this, which I repeat again, and I'm warning, and I'm asking, I don't think there's a foothold in the area of law and even less in the area of economy. And here we have, in the context of this bill, again, sort of a famous letter of intent, I guess, like when the NBS sent that letter to the World Bank -- I'm afraid the effects will be the same, therefore, defeating. And when we have all this in mind, I can't ignore a fact, which is one logical question that is being imposed -- how will the Serbian arms industry go back to the world market with existing technology, with series that should exceed existing production capacities? And when it comes to arms exports, it certainly does not need to be ignored the consequences that the country could leave behind the fact that Serbia is exporting some kind of weaponry that is classified in a group of rare countries of Europe that have not yet ratified the Convention on their ban. We are witnessing one, "let's say, the terror that is being led under this action, the accession of Serbia to NATO, or "a sense" of entering the Partnership for Peace, and I guess that "mean" should be to employ the domestic industry, or, above all, the ammunition producers, as well as that Serbian producers enter the system of purchasing NATO, because certainly we are more competitive than, for example, Turks, Bulgarians and others. But apparently someone at the top of the government doesn't want it, because it would seem to lose the ability of other significantly more lucrative businesses, so for now it's more lucrative to sell in Africa, and the story of new jobs, not as much as those 200 thousand promised, probably that there's nothing in this area either, because in some such system, as NATO mentioned, they wouldn't have anything to look for. Of course, nothing prevents us from trading as a state and benefiting ourselves, but everything is under question precisely because of the people who represent this area and whose obviously business results are not at the necessary level. I will remind only the former possibility of selling Kuwait's modernized M84 tanks, that we started with a $300 million figure, that it happened to 150, so it ended up now even the Croats are mentioned as a serious partner to do what we didn't. And it all started, so I'm saying, exactly the private initiative of the SDPR, even without the involvement of the Military Technical Institute, and now some announcements about the sale of the Lazar armored vehicle, about, they remind a lot of the situation. However, if I were underprivileged, I could say that now is a period of transition and market laws, so apparently the Jugoimport-SDPR is also authorized to produce and, of course, has contact with all possible customers, while, for example, the Military Institute has no. This is simply the organisation that would be placed on legal and right grounds, only if the SDPR had the task of contacting customers, with the technical support of the Military Engineering Institute, to find jobs for both the VTI and our dedicated industry. It's a real organization, and that's how companies that want to make money on the market do it. There's no big philosophy here, but the problem is that obviously one group of people who does pretty much bring in work, so, by weapons, by selling weapons, has divided into several companies and works separately, instead of being in one organization, to be exported. Such an effect, or such an organization, can certainly reverse our potential and performance in third markets in the long term. So, at a time when Serbia's economy faces an economic crisis, when the policy of preserving agreed jobs, and thus preserving jobs and the condition of what kind of social peace, we in the SRS believe that Serbia's military industry could be this technical and technological momentum, which would pull the country forward, something like the French programme "Eureka", which has raised the entire French economy to a much higher level, brings the country out of the recession at the time. But to do that, it takes a lot, a lot of things to change. Finally, I will only remind myself once again that the bill we are discussing, the Law on Public Debt and the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia 2011 for us as a parliamentary group, which respects the laws and constitution of this country, and, in an argument, criticises a catastrophic economic policy, states that we are not voting for what we are talking about today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50170	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives, want a word, given that there are no MPs on the lists of registered candidates anymore? (No) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a principled search on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Serbian Bank of Belgrade for the obligations "Jugoimport – SDPR". We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Debt of the Republic of Serbia at SOCIETE GENERALS WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF THE WORLD BANK You have received a bill submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Finance Committee and a report from the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the basic procedure, total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time for debates per parliamentary group is the following, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; MP group SRS – one hour, four minutes and 12 seconds; MP group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica – 24 minutes; MP group SPS-JS – 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Salad group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs under these points of the agenda: MP Ivan Andric, MP Zoran Kasalovic, MP of the SPS-JS, MP Veroljub Arsic, MP for Serbia, MP Vladko Senic, MP for the G17 Plus Parliament, MP for the SRS. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposing official, Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50171	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia with the guarantee of the World Bank. I would take this opportunity and introduce you to the basic elements of this law, and above all on the legal basis. So, according to the Public Debt Act, the National Assembly is the one who decides on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia through long-term loans, and according to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, I now remind you of the basic elements of the Budget Law, a budget that implies the revenues of 724.5 billion dinars, expenditures of 845 billion dinars, so, a deficit of 120 billion dinars, and when we look at what needs to finance the Republic of Serbia's budget, that is the deficit plus payments that are due to old foreign savings, old inherited debt, bonds of the London Club and the repayment of principals for previously taken loans, the most severe, the financing needs of around 200 billion dinars. All of it, of course, was adopted by the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. And, as sources for covering financial needs, the vault records have been defined, the use of funds from the consolidated Treasury account, of course, neutral assets from previous years, and the privatisation funds will certainly reduce the need for the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. Also, according to the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2011 budget, the Republic of Serbia's mandate for programme support for the budget is envisioned, with a World Bank guarantee of up to $400m. The Republic of Serbia, under this law, will be tasked in euro, taking into account the structure of our debt, equivalent to $400m, at Soseta Generale Banka, with the World Bank's guarantee. What's particularly important is what's it going to have to contain in the loan agreement with the Society General Bank, so financing terms? It's a six-year-old loan. The interest rate is equal to the sum of six-year-olds for the euro, fixed interest rates, fixed interest rates and fixed one-off fees. Fixed one-time compensation will be 0.5% of the agreed value of the loan. The fixed interest margin is 1%. The payment period is 72 months, which means that the principal's payment is made one time after the loan's expiry. The government has implemented a procedure for public procurement of financial services, therefore, loans to business banks for the purpose of funding deficits and refinanced debts. Public procurement, undermining, was carried out through the open procedure. There were seven valid offers. In the context of these seven valid offers, three groups of bids were singled out. According to this, "Sosite General", "Citibank" and "Credit Suisse" had the most favourable offers that moved, if we look at the internal rate on the day of the opening of the bid, between 3.87 and 3.92%. The second group of banks: 'Deute Bank', 'JP Morgan' and a joint offer of 'Banca Intesa' and 'Banca Infrastructure Innovazione' between 4.57 and 4.75%. And, finally, Raiffeisen Bank with the most unfavourable 5.33% offer. Therefore, once again, I say that the terms of this loan are expressed in the internal rate of yielding are certainly the most favourable conditions on the market at the moment. At this point, it's less than 4%, so 3.87%. I remind you, if we were to broadcast 'euro bond', according to all the market research so far, it would move around 7 and 7.3%. After such an offer and a future Eurobond, if necessary, it will have a far smaller contribution. Given that the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia provided for this loan, that the 2011 budget law of the Republic of Serbia, which has a deficit of 120 billion dinars, since we adopted this budget, would ask the MPs to support this law in the day of voting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50172	I thank Mrs. Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) Here you go. First of all, the People's MP Ivan Andric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50173	Thank you for this extensive explanation. It's really hard for me to start discussing this because I think this is the lowest point in which Parliament has found itself since the day of this government's election. Repeat once again, this is, therefore, the lowest point in which Serbia's parliamentary life is in this term! Comrade Sarovic, if you can finish it in front of your ex-friend. (President: colleagues, I really ask you not to interfere with each other's work. Here you go, Mr. Andric. ) It is simply an incredible situation in which this country is located. I believe that from your situation it seems so that, since it's foreseen in the budget, you come and clarify the mechanisms, in which, more or less, no one had any doubt that you found the most favourable loan, and that's that. The ruling coalition has no comment, no committees or representatives of the ruling. The heads of the parliamentary groups that form the ruling coalition are not even in the O.R. The prime minister, the journalists told me, is in Bulgaria. It's all right, we just have to put our hands up, put Serbia in debt for $400 million and go home. Unfortunately. Here, we will try to in some way open at least a minimal debate about it and try to point out the illogicalities in which we live today. So your perspective is like that, ours is completely different. This proposal was addressed to the Assembly on 28 January this year, according to the seal we have. Since then, some things have happened, and even if they hadn't happened, I think the government was obliged to do at least a few things. The first thing is that when a country's parliament is asked to borrow $400m, we think that the prime minister was obliged to sit here and explain exactly what the $400m budget is intended for, which will be paid back by all the citizens of this country, not you, not that prime minister, not anyone else, but all the citizens of this country. Given the first question, does this country have a prime minister? Changing one of the government's vice presidents doesn't make him prime minister. The prime minister should make it so that when he dares to seek such a loan, he comes himself and explains what that money will be spent on. What's with the emotion? I'm asking you if that money will be spent among other things for subsidies at the Columbari to make ten criminals rich by buying out the country that they previously bought from the citizens of this country, by renting their machines to the same Colubarians, so that they work 48 hours a day?- I'm sorry. Is that what that money's for? Does this money serve to subsidize the PIO fund, for which someone comes and tells us every other week – they will be reformed, what is wrong with you, that you are nervous? Is that money for that? Does it serve as "Serb Railway", another consumer master, with no results behind it?- I'm sorry. Does it serve to create these fictitious paths that exist only in government sessions, in conversations that run behind closed doors, so we have to buy newspapers and read to see what happens in this country? A thousand questions as to what that money will be spent on, a thousand questions. It is not disputed that some country has a deficit and that the deficit must be covered. That's not controversial. What's controversial is that it's not enough for us to explain the mechanism by which you chose the most favourable loan and for that fraction of the honor. We ask something else – why did you take credit? Was it not possible to do something in the last three years, so this loan wasn't necessary? If it wasn't possible, why and why wasn't it possible? Is that the culprit, Mladjan Dinkic? If this culprit is Mladjan Dinkic, then he is gone, which means no borrowing is necessary. Who's to blame? Oliver Dulic? Dragin, the carryer of sacks on Serbia's national television journal? So, simply, we need a lot more explanation, for us as representatives of citizens, not personally, but because it gives you an explanation of the mechanism of how this interest rate happened. I have no reason to doubt that you were working against your own interest and that you chose a higher interest rate, but the best one, and that's not a topic. In this country the subject is quite another matter. Unfortunately, what did the government decide? The government has decided to hold a session to which most members of the ruling coalition will go, where the bosses have no reason at all to explain why a new $400m is being sought, or the old ones since December, and have no internal need to explain the political situation in which parliament is asked to borrow the money. Let's just say, let's ask you a banal question -- what if this government doesn't have a majority and if elections are discussed, that's what I just said, March 2nd? It means new government, new ministries, new budget. Yeah, well, it doesn't matter, 'cause whoever comes, they're gonna need that 400 million. Right? Well, maybe it's not like that? Here, we're telling you that there are people in this country who are ready, and even though there's a show on TV that says that 150m euros have been stolen, that's one third of this, in the last three years, on just one thing, on renting machines, so they're going to tell us -- not enough for us, which was on TV, so we need to stop doing it. Well, could we have reduced at least 50 million by that? Could we have assured the citizens of this country that this is no longer being done and that there is no such theft, so that we don't need 400, but we need 350? Could it have been possible to launch the smallest PIO fund reform, save maybe another 10 million? Was it possible to reform the Health Fund? How do these things affect you? I understand your position and there was no one in your skin. They tell you how much it takes and -- "find!" "How do I find it"? Well, "put out a public tender or public procurement procedure so it's the cheapest"! It's not a subject. The theme is why are we taking it?- I'm sorry. Consider that you are the director or owner of a company, or your household, in which you pay no attention to your expenses, but simply calculate how much you need and only borrow and borrow. Of course, it is not true that this country is over-indebted and, of course, it is true that this country wastes money in vain because it is unable to deal with corruption in public enterprises, and of course it is true. We do not think that you are the root cause of what is happening, but we are looking for an answer to the political question – until 1 March – well, when all the G17s are replaced, then there is no such thing? Is by the end of this year, by 12 October, when will the European Commission? Say anything, not you, but the Prime Minister! It does not become prime minister by choosing in the assembly and by gathering courage, when the minister abolishes the mobile phone bill tax, to turn the president of the state and replace a minister. This is a much more important job. Why isn't that man here?- I'm sorry. The president of the assembly asked that we have respect for his function. Explain to us how to have respect when the last time he spoke about the budget was shorter than how long it took him to get out of this room, just so no one would ask him anything. Such a situation is unsustainable! No matter what you may have, maybe you don't have a majority, you thought this morning you had a common point, maybe you don't have one for this, but that manner creates an increased sense of uncertainty. That's why this government can't have, in this form, no authority, because it ignores 90% of our reality, and such a system is unsustainable, especially at the state level it's completely unsustainable. I know what my salary is, I know who I live with, and I know what my expenses are at home, and I will never personally get into a situation that, because I think something belongs to me, I take it, and then I don't count, which I don't care how it ends up coming back. People like that are called "unaccountable," when it comes to them, about their lives. What's the name that's decent when the government behaves like that in one country? What's a decent name for something like that? Put aside all demagogues about corruption – when we come, it will no longer be because we are better men. That's not true. There are no good and bad people, there are systems that fight corruption and systems that don't have the strength to do it. Every day, every hour, this government assures us every minute that it is unable to deal with it, and as a solution, it comes to parliament and asks for a new $400m, under great conditions. It's not a question, but it's not a subject. You know what, any MP who takes more care of his country before voting for this will require a very clear plan for what that money will go for. We just had an antidote in this debate, it was a counter-guarantee debate for the Ministry of Defense, for the SDPR. Is everything clear to us? Did anyone have any questions? It's not. It's all clear from two sides of that bill. What's clear here? We needed 400 million, we found them under phenomenal conditions, and we move on, nothing matters anymore. Where are the answers to all the other questions? Where are the roads? What happened to the PIO Fund? What happened to the Health Fund? What happened to 900 and some of the losing public enterprises you're subsidizing? It's not your fault, but what changed in three years? What's the difference today compared to last year? To translate the question into political terms, does it make any sense that we're taking this kind of money when we know we're going to throw it down the wind? The only result of this, if something doesn't change, is that we're only going to be longer or, in the event of reprogramming, we'll be better off with conditions of debt, but in real life, there won't be any results. We lasted, what more: four months, six months, a year – can we do that? And what comes after these elections or that shouldn't be the problem of this parliament, because it's going to be some new assembly of parliament that will then take care of it; then the new 400 million, 600 million, billion, 100 billion, interest 4.8%, 3.5%. It's not about that. There's no life. One question directly for you – today came out with an interview with the Serbian Government's representative in this business, a World Bank representative, in which it is said, either not well translated or I don't know, that the money will be used to repair the business environment or part of that money. That's what the paper says. Unfortunately, we don't have a prime minister so we can ask him. We buy the newspaper, we read, we translate into ourselves, and then we come to ask you to answer us, instead of the man coming here and talking about it as shakely as he had a conversation with the president of Serbia, that he had with all of us, so he can tell us what's going on in this country. Not to mention the President of the Republic, but come on, he doesn't owe us, he's chosen in another way. If that's true, since there's no guillotine regulations mentioned here, it's better not to talk about it, I've only found here some statements that chronologically, since the creation of that idea in 2008, to this day, how much contrast is there in statements of less or more of the same factors, how much determination and frustration is in those statements, when they're given, and then it's explained how the circumstances have changed and we couldn't do anything. But I guess there's been a mistake in that broadcast interview. I just can't believe we asked for $400 million to implement regulation reform, or guillotine regulations. I hope not. As far as other matters are concerned, please, although it is not your job, although it is our prime minister in Bulgaria, and where are the deputy prime ministers, if we have them, we don't know, we came here this morning, we haven't watched the news, we've had a debate in the Assembly, we may not have any prime ministers anymore, and if we have them, then they're not there, explain to us what's going on in this country, how is this new situation going to reflect, which is going to directly determine who's going to spend that money, if you stay a minister, the question is who's going to call you on the phone and for what, and ask you because the situation is unsustainable and previously not doing anything in your sector to change it? Is the situation in this country in any way stable in the coming period? Of course we will not vote for this proposal, as we did not vote for the budget either, and that is the matter before we consider the possibility of voting for this at all, we expect a serious explanation. I'll finish it, if I came to ask you for a loan, I'd really have to explain why. The fact that you came instead of the prime minister to parliament, asking for the parliament to grant you the loan, we expect at least a minimum explanation – broader than covering the deficits and reprogramming the debts, according to the bill. You realize that's not a rhetorical question. The question behind this will be – and what has changed in these sectors so far? That's a serious question. Unfortunately, I cannot expect an answer from you, but by the end of this debate, I expect something like that, because it is too serious to consider whether the procurement procedure is fully respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50174	Thank you. National MP Milos Radulovic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50175	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, at the first session of the National Assembly in 2011, and this, the only extraordinary since the beginning of the year, given that it has been all January and all February, we are having a debate on the laws on credit duties. The ruling majority did not consider it appropriate for the Assembly to meet, although there have been many laws that have been under discussion since the beginning of the year. It is obvious that this government either does not see any problems or does not want to be debated here in parliament, so that the citizens of Serbia do not understand the depth of the crisis in which the state is headed. You don't understand, gentlemen, that citizens face problems and difficulties at every turn as a consequence of the destructive policy that this government is leading. For Serbian citizens today, life is extremely difficult, almost intolerable, and they well know who is responsible for it. On the agenda of today's session, we also have a proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Social Generale Bank with the guarantee of the World Bank. The amount of the loan is $400m and is intended to finance the budget deficit, as well as to finance the debt. It explains that the loan is extremely favourable with the interest rate repayment period at 72 months, paying off the principal once after the credit is expired, that a public procurement procedure has been carried out and that among the seven banks the most favourable bidder has been selected. In an explanation, it also says that the interest, somewhere, is about 5.5%, but does not stand to see what the costs of the transfer and the processing of the loan are. I will remind you, Mrs Dragutinovic, that at the end of the year we held a debate on loans, i.e. on credit debt with 10 commercial banks with a 250m-euro loan, with the aim of the loan to cover the budget deficit and refinance the debt. That's when you said it was an extremely favourable loan, although interest is 6.3%. Thank God there are experts in this country who have calculated that the cost of processing and transferring the loan is over a million euros or, more specifically, 100 million dinars. Another bill came to the Serbian Parliament, I personally expected to discuss it today by emergency procedure, which is the EU, the Republic of Serbia and the NBS Credit Act on the amount of 200m euros, which is also intended to finance the budget deficit and mitigate the balance of payments, and by an urgent procedure. Given the level of public debt and the large gap between the country's income and expenditure, it is already certain that we will have draft laws at almost every subsequent session and adopt the laws on credit debt, whose purpose above all will be to cover the budget deficit. This authority, Mrs Dragutinovic, has, from the very beginning of its mandate to today, entrusted Serbian citizens, i.e. this state, by more than 4.5 billion euros or, as calculated by economist Miodrag Zdravkovic, each second you owed the citizens of Serbia 45.2 euros. This is a specification of all the credit arrangements that this government has entered since the beginning of its creation. I will remind you, Mrs Dragutinovic, that last year when we discussed the 2011 budget here, you said that the public debt is 11.6 billion euros or 38.8% of GDP. DSS lawmakers claimed that this amount of public debt is much higher, that it exceeds 12 billion, thicker than 12 billion, and that the debt level is much more than 38.8% of GDP, that it is more than 42% of GDP. Then you gave us one inappropriate answer that I wouldn't want to discuss here today. I'm counting on the entire DSS Parliamentary Group. Mrs Dragutinovic, a few days ago, the finance ministry came up with a report on the level of public debt at the end of 2010. According to the report, the source is the finance ministry, public debt is 12.16 billion euros or 41.5% of GDP. And who, then, deceives the citizens? Then, Mrs Dragutinovic, a report from the State Auditing Institution that controls the finance ministry for 2009 determines that the finance ministry has not reported in public debt 1.3 billion euros. So I ask you, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, what is the real public debt? What is it, Mrs Dragutinovic, with bonds or securities of value indexed in dinars and euro, which you have issued since the beginning of this year, in January and February? Experts estimate, i.e. analysts who have carefully collected all this, that this amount is already over 100 billion dinars in this year alone and that you have already issued papers that practically cover the budget deficit for this year. But what's the problem here? The problem is that there's a huge interest to be paid on these papers and it's only for these missions that I'm talking about over 700 million dinars. I'll talk about borrowing. At the Second Fair of Local Self-Government, Mr. Boris Tadic, president, prime minister of the party, said: "They all have problems, (I quote) but some are more easily overcoming this crisis because they are in debt. We also borrow, but we don't crash into loans. We take care of this line where public debt does not burden GDP, but other countries do not care about it, and that is why they have higher salaries than we do. We make as much as we make. "The president of Serbian citizens explained to all these citizens why our salaries are the lowest in Europe. Just, then, what's the effect of such borrowing? And is it even better for citizens, or are you in charge of covering budget gaps, that only huge borrowings cover excessive consumption, and budget holes cover these very loans, and that, as many predict, you slowly introduce this country into debt slavery, and certainly, according to the estimates of many, and bankruptcy, into something that already happened in this country in 1982. You, gentlemen, when you formed this government, promised citizens a better standard of living, higher wages, 200,000 jobs, a free distribution of 1,000 euros and higher pensions. It is obvious that even then you knew that you were unable to keep those promises and that you were knowingly deceived by the citizens. Instead of those promises, we have the lowest wages in Europe. Last year alone, compared to 2009, the standard of living fell 25%, and this year, it began with a terrible collection of life supplies that the average Serbian household cannot handle. Serbia today is a country with over a million people living below the poverty line, with 30,000 who live on one meal in folk cuisines. They're 69, and it takes at least five times as many as 69, because in line for that one meal, for folk cuisine, more and more young people. As my colleague says - and there are many children in those ranks. It is, gentlemen, your responsible and social policy and your concern for the people, because this citizen, an ordinary man, today receives a minimum of 15,670 dinars, which is among the lowest in Europe, with the lowest pension of 11,447 dinars and an increase of that pension, Mrs Dragutinovic, of which you spoke with a heart, for those poor people there were only 240 dinars. So, what can they buy today for 240 dinars? With an average pension for farmers of 9,000 dinars, the average consumer basket, according to the new methodology, is 50,000 dinars for the four-member family. You promised 200,000 jobs, and instead there were 400,000 people left without a job. You couldn't do it either, you didn't want to, and you didn't have to tell the citizens, but a police officer from the IMF came in and carefully analyzed the data that currently, since you in power, the job has lost 400,000 people, that 555 people are out of work a day, or, to recalculate, for every working hour, somewhere, about 70 people. The impact of your government is the highest unemployment rate in Europe of 26.7%, the highest inflation of 10.3%, the lowest salary. Mladjan Dinkic admitted to knowingly cheating on the people, promising them 1,000-euro free action so that Boris Tadic would win the presidential election. Prime Minister Cvetkovic, along with the vice presidents and members of the government, deceived us by telling us that we are a country that will be bypassed by the crisis and that investors will rush into our country. You remember that story by Mr. Djelic about the desert island that escaped the monster of the crisis, and how everyone who has money will come to that desert island and invest. How direct were the investments last year in this country? How much do you expect this year? You told us that we were leaders in reforms, and compared to all countries in the region, we are the fastest and the easiest to overcome the crisis. Disagreement, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, and conflicts in the government, as well as the story of the ongoing reconstruction, which has lasted for months, is the story of precisely trying to fool the citizens of Serbia and to show that with this reconstruction, there should be a faster, more efficient and rational work of the government, and that you are doing all this in the interests of the Serbian citizens. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, there are few who continue to believe that empty story of yours. You cheated, you cheated, and you do it day and day. Even those who put you together, the tycoons and a few foreign ambassadors lose their patience and believe you less and less. In the end, it is best for Serbia and its citizens to step down immediately and to choose in the Serbian citizens' elections those who will be fair, more responsible to them and who will work first and foremost in their own, not in the interest of your employers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50176	18 minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. MP Veroljub Arsic has been reported. If you want to use 10 minutes as an authorised representative, until your break, and if you're going to be 20, we can take a break now. You want a word. (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the last laws we passed last year was the Budget Law, and at the session before that, we agreed that the state would be in charge of another 250m euros, so here, now, at the first session of 2011, we have a new guarantee of new duties. What bothers a little is that the purpose of this borrowing is to return old foreign savings, and I cannot call it anything other than a kind of political justification for why the state continues to be in debt. The problems of the budget deficit at all are not recent, they exist for a longer period of time, and it would be the order for the finance minister and the entire government to recognise once again that we have this many budgetary responsibilities because of a huge state administration that swallows funds, on the one hand, because of low productivity, a small number of employees, so it is natural for us to have a situation in such circumstances that pension funds and health care funds are one of the largest in Europe, as opposed to incomes that they can collect on their own under the law and on the basis of the percentage budget size. I can't blame the finance minister for the state that has been found when this government was voted by this parliament, but I can blame the minister for why something more serious has not been done on this matter so far, that this ballast and all that is happening to us, if it can't be reduced, at least it doesn't keep increasing from year to year. The problems begin even earlier than the famous destruction of our domestic banking sector, the closure of domestic banks, the intrusion of foreign banks who did not have the desire to invest here in the population, in the economy, and at least they had a choice as to how and how they would make as much profit as possible. You can look at the loans that the population had until 2003 or 2004, when all of this was still in circulation or when it was not yet known that and what was going to happen, when we had the most balanced budget for privatisation, which did not raise funds at the level of the property it was selling, but enough to support the state apparatus. However, a sharp deterioration in the position of the loan has been going on since 2005, when Mladjan Dinkic remembered to write the Law on State Charters of Values and then the collapse of a whole system and more systems that are connected. So I'm surprised why this government isn't trying to solve this problem. Since 2005, the National Bank reference rate has been 18%. State records of value with a 24% interest have been broadcast and no one can convince me that it wasn't one of the kind of primary show given by the National Bank, and the profits have crushed the banks. As a second consequence, credits for both the economy and the population appear to be gathering rapidly, and we are now coming up with that low productivity problem and a small number of jobs. No economic operator in such an environment, under such conditions, can take credit for investments with an interest rate of 12, 14, 15, 16%, with a foreign exchange clause and create a new value for it to be a new investment and a new job. The entire income will end up in the bank that gave him credit. Then don't be surprised why we don't have more jobs, why we don't have more production, why we don't have bigger exports. And it seems to me that everything that's been going on in the market has gone in two directions: to achieve certain political goals and, unfortunately, to strengthen the banking lobby in the country. The moment the state became dependent on bank loans, banks are the ones who handle the state in a certain way. At one of the sessions, I asked for a report on how many banks from September 2008 to September 2009 brought foreign exchanges from a country with no credit for importing goods and services. I fully understand that under normal circumstances, when everything is normal and when everything works normally, that the state should not interfere and administrative measures prevent the flow of capital and goods. This is what we all stand for, but at a time of the global economic crisis and with an economy that has been in crisis for years before the global economic crisis itself, it is necessary for the state to take certain administrative measures to protect its financial market. The only measure that was then, on the one hand, is the increase in the reference interest rate and, on the other hand, the transmission of foreign reserves to the money market, so that these same foreign reserves would be exported from the country without any evidence of imports of goods and services. Now we have one such situation and one opportunity, which we may have been able to take advantage of, that the global economic crisis may be an excuse for us, and that, I say, governor of the National Bank, because under the then National Bank Act and foreign exchange business, the National Bank and the Government are those bodies that can prevent the outflow of foreign exchanges without any evidence of imports of goods and services. We had that chance and we missed it. If we've already done such a primary emission with 24% interest in a few years, how long was it, if the banks came to a certain capital, what would they do if the foreign exchanges couldn't get out without the evidence of importing goods and services? Well, they wouldn't buy them anymore, that's the first thing. The other thing is, what about the dinars? Well, they can only place them in loans, into investments. What does that mean? Simple, lower credit prices. Now we're going in that reverse order, with lower credit prices, less income accumulation that legal entities or businesses set aside for loans and more their own funds for investment. It's not hot water, it's what everyone in the world does, but we have to slave for the banking lobby and fear that in the time of EU approximation, we don't get pucks on our hands. I think she had to gather some courage and solve the problem here. So, now we have one situation that, from month to month, year to year, we are constantly in charge of the state. At some point, we'll get to the point where we'll have more access to repaying loans than we can take new ones. That'll be a problem. Madam Minister, I have no doubt, but if I ask you a question - and who will repay these loans, will you then be a minister? You may answer - yes, I will try to continue to be a minister, but in any case I make the preconditions of my colleague that he can do so if I don't, however, I doubt that would be your honest answer, because in a continuous government borrowing I don't see an exit. It's nice that the state is trying through the subsidized loans it gives to raise economic activity, to raise consumption, it's, on the one hand, nice, but, on the other hand, no one can convince me that it's wise to give companies originating in abroad 10,000 euros per job to open the plant here. Why? Could these companies have been export-oriented? Did we predict when we give them money to be export-oriented? We didn't. Then what's the problem? Why don't we put anyone who's export-oriented can have such assets, regardless of their origins, on the company's headquarters or the founder who's coming? Not to say it gives a wide range of abuses. Well, any one of you here a colleague or any businessman can change the place of residence anywhere abroad, or find someone who has there to open a company, that's what takes them 15 days, and show up here with a business plan -- and, we'll take "hello for granted." So if we want to create a normal society, first we have to fix the situation on the financial market. We have to take care of the reasons -- what about the assets of the banks that are in bankruptcy, and in liquidation, it's been going on for ten years? What about their claims? Who do they belong to? Can we at least cover a fraction of our deficit as founders of these banks? I have no doubt, this is one of the most favourable loans this government has taken. I'd be wrong if I said it was unfavourable, but either way, the rate, somewhere, about 5% on the annual level. A 5% rate at an annual level can be raised by any employee of Western Europe if they have a firm guarantee. Thus, their own property or investment loan costs so much. I'm not mad at you for not being more favourable in terms of choice, it's the best thing you could get, but I'm telling you how much they trust you and where they put us as a state, and that's because of this whole story - and about the state records of value and the behaviour of the National Bank and the eye, in the end of the day, our foreign reserves, or the growth of our gross product. In any case, the government needs to make a serious programme of what we're going to do with the accumulated state administration and, finally, to make a strategy for development in the economy and industry, to finally define what our national industrial development programme is – whether we're going to be an industrial country, whether we're going to be a agricultural country dealing with food production. We're gonna have to make that decision once and for all. So, all these programs that the government is now implementing to me seem rather chaotic, you run from one end of Serbia to the other, with no idea and, worst of all, without the goal of what you really need to do. Until, finally, the state takes a stand, the SNS will not vote in the country's debt day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50178	From time to time, 13 minutes have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I'm setting a break from this moment on, which is 1400 hours to 15.00 hours. At 3 p.m., we continue our afternoon work by continuing part of the session with representatives of the parliamentary groups. The first to be declared for the word at 3 p.m. will be MP Dragan Stevanovic. Thank you. [[After break – 15.10]] Dear People's MPs, we continue the session's work in the afternoon of the debate in the principle of the bill's proposal. During the session, it is such that the right to the word is given by the president, or by the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is held by MP Dragan Stevanovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50180	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at the beginning of this 2nd item of the agenda when Mrs Dragutinovic used her time as an authorised promoter, or when she spoke in front of the government, the incomplete two or three minutes were used to tell the story of the procedural aspects of this loan, or this law, but what was also heard in today's debate was that the procedure when it came to this loan was really no disputed. As far as the SRS is concerned, we'll have one question, and the procedure in the public procurement procedure, but a little later. What is a fact and what is a problem is that all MPs who are interested in this law, including SRS MPs, remain deprived of the answer to the political aspect of this loan. And the fundamental question, which today is raised in front of all MPs in this House, is, what is the credibility of the government to go before the Assembly asking us to grant it $400m and, after all, what is the credibility of the minister who today convinces us that we should vote in the day to support this decision? This is why I ask, in the past few days, we have had the opportunity to listen to everything and everything about this government, it wasn't the opposition, it wasn't the SRS, it's everything and everything you've heard from the mouth of one of the vice presidents, now it's the former vice president of the Republic of Serbia, in these stories we've heard that decisions in the government are made by informal centres of power. What I would like to ask today are MPs of the congregation's majority who will raise their hands for this loan, and to God and the minister, if he shows up in the Assembly, to tell us what informal centres will be able to decide on these $400 million? It's not 10,000 dinars or 15 or 20,000 dinars. Of course, I'm not someone who's prone to waste, I respect every penny, but this is about one serious number, Madam Minister. Just to sort of introduce you to what I asked -- which centres will be able to dispose of these $400m, who will make decisions about them, since, as the former Deputy Prime Minister says, neither the Prime Minister nor the Government's ministers are working. On the other hand, I, Mrs Dragutinovic, have disputed in your absence your credibility when it comes to your request to vote for this law. I will remind you that, just two months ago, you came out with a set of amendments and a supplement of the tax laws and you have the impression that you had no arguments to persuade the assembly majority MPs to support this proposal from the Government, which you brought to the Assembly on behalf of the Government. We in the SRS are deeply convinced that if you knew how to cut out your laws, you wouldn't even bring them to the Assembly. Therefore, the first question, the political character, is – what credibility do you have that you are asking us today to support this law? I hear from representatives, or from people who sit in government for three years, that you don't make key and crucial decisions in the government. For you in particular and personally, everything is also said that you are not adequate, capable of not doing the job properly. I'm asking you today -- what confidence do we give you $400 million to have at your disposal? That's one question. Considering everything that's been going on in the last three years since this government was established, given the developments and flows in the public finances sector, for which you are objectively the most responsible as finance minister, you know what I'm going to ask you – what's your personal satisfaction to do this, what do you need all this? You are the minister who rightly calls on Lazar Pachu. You know, when someone calls on Lazar Pachu, I'm inspired and I ask you a question – when six years pass and a deadline comes for the payment of the principal debt, some generations that will then run the government, sit in these benches, ask what they will call on, and that you and these governments in the public finances sector, and talk about it as you do today about the moves or actions of Lazar Pachu? Let me remind you, he died flatly, Lazar Pachu, because a minister was in charge of him without his knowledge. You won't get me wrong, if you had such a tendency so far, I believe you would have died a hundred times, what kind of ministers they are, how they are in debt, and how they spend money. I ask you, what will your students say tomorrow that you as finance minister have done and what are they going to call for to leave a mark in the history of this state's public finances? Maybe you wanted to, maybe you had an intention, I don't want to argue with that, but the clues are pale or almost nonexistent. You, as a government, have, because of procedures and political will or these informal centres of power that govern your government, according to the former vice president, unearthed all axioms from public finances. When people in one country get into a situation to pull out $400 million, they do it when they're elemental disasters, when they're war conditions, and then these same people have a real right to place those burdens on generations, right, Madam Minister? With us, exceptions have become practice. It's up to us to charge the state for $400 million, enter the building or on the street and say, "Good afternoon." I'm not sure you know the burden of this, but those who will raise, possibly, the hand, if this majority survives until that day for the vote, indeed, are not aware, and judging by the comments, they are not very interested in what they will vote for and what they will raise their hand for. You could hear a lot of things. The essence and meaning of borrowing, I said earlier, is to solve some burning problem, and then spread the burden of that debt to generations that come after. But not by burdening them with the ability to finance their needs or ideas and concepts, but by doing it the way they won't burden them. Have you handled all your duties so far, including with this loan, such a process and such a concept? Of course not. Today in this congregation we hear the words – credit is favourable. Why is the loan favourable? No one says, Mrs Dragutinovic, that with this loan in six years' time, the government you won't be in, you will have to make a cumulative payment of $400m. Am I wrong to say that? Of course I'm not wrong. What's a question, and from the beginning, you weren't there when I said, it's a problem procedure. In the process of public procurement for these funds, you asked for the loan to be so and for bids to be like this, to pay only interest for six years, counting on you to catch another mandate, and for God's sake, you won't, and then some other government, some other ministers and some new generations, get their heads kicked out of $400 million. Now I ask you -- do the economic positions of this country guarantee this generation and that government, that from current funding, they will be able to spit out $400 million? You know it won't. You know very well he won't. This loan will be refinanced in six years. Am I right? I did, of course. What are the economic perspectives of this country to be different? None, because political will is what it is, political relations in government are also the perception of the general public interest of those who make decisions in the sphere of public finances and the economy of this country as they are. With what right, Mrs Dragutinovic, does your government commit generations after us to rule in accordance with the principles with which you are? What are they gonna do? Pay interest? Why can't they spend that money on investments, in road infrastructure, in municipal infrastructure, in improved social protection, in improved health care, in raising environmental standards in this country, etc.? What are they gonna do? They'll pay the interest this government has left them in stock. What did they get for those interest rates? What's a material value or equivalent, that's what we've asked you how many times? What did they get for the debts and loans you're withdrawing? They didn't get anything! You paid for the agencies, you paid for the directorates, you paid for the offices, you paid for the missed political projects, you paid for the crazy state interventionism, you paid for the losses of public enterprises, you paid for the losses of the losers! Today we live in a country where a public company whose founder is a state-owned company, watch this, deal with losses, be in debt and do not repay its debts. On behalf of their non-reimbursement of debts, guarantees to the state are activated. And then the public company participates in privatisation procedures, i.e. buying other companies. Well, you have a situation that "Serbiagas" should now produce chickens, because it's bought by Agrosiv. And it's all funded by a taxpayer from this country, each of us who pays on a different tax basis. As long as it takes, right?- I'm sorry. We never got an answer – and what is paid with the money coming to this country? Whoever has the right and the courage to say – they are favourable loans, this loan is favourable. When did we adopt one loan, in this congregation, and you didn't say he was eligible? No government official has ever promoted a bad loan here. They were all good. But they're all going back through refinance, because they're very good. When it comes to interest, it might be lower if this country's credit rating was higher. By guaranteeing us the World Bank, it means nothing to me, to you or to any individual in this congregation, who is not from the informal centers of power. We're going to feel the burden of these loans on our skin, and this loan and all the other ones you're going to withdraw or the funds you're going to use to re-emission, to pay off those bonds and securities of value. What basis did you leave for those to whom you made debts and interest? 25% of exports participate in GDP. What's the situation in the real sector? Do any of these people care about that? It's important to support the government's proposal and what we care about tomorrow. Mrs Dragutinovic, 18 or 17 thousand legal entities in Serbia are mature for bankruptcy under the new Bank of Banks Act. Well, isn't that enough for some resignation? I don't mean yours, I mean the whole government. Over the past year, 28 000 companies, Mrs Dragutinovic, have exited the VAT system by the end of the year, and you are designing higher VAT-based revenues in 2011. Do you know what that means? That, on the one hand, means they won't pay VAT, and on the other hand, what's worse and more, let's say, devastating -- 28 thousand legal entities can't make a trade more than 2 million dinars on an annual basis. By yesterday, some representatives, directors of public enterprises, were receiving such salaries monthly. Remember the Kristo affair. Go to the site today and see what salaries are received by some other public companies, directors and bodies whose founder is state. One economic legal entity at an annual level cannot make a trade of more than 2 million dinars. And it's not an alarm to anyone in this Assembly or in your government, it's an alarm to you whether you've been spit on by Mladjan Dinkic or someone's spit on Mladjan Dinkic, or what's going on between them, or in these coalition relations in the government. Who cares about these people? In those 16 thousand companies that are mature for bankruptcy, at least 180,000 people are led to be employed. They're still not burdening unemployment. It's the only statistical data in this country that has a growth trend in recent years, which is unemployment. That doesn't touch any of you. Now you're gonna have a little fight. They were good when they convinced each other that they should support themselves for the presidential election. Well, when Mladjan Dinkic promised action to defeat Boris Tadic, they were good to each other. Now they're gonna fight and do the math. Who's going to think about this devastating data? Some new generation. The new budget will go to 46 billion dinars only on the payments of the dues this year. From 2008 to today, this amount has increased three times, with a trend of growth. You know very well that when the deficit is financed from borrowing, because this state obviously has no other source of funding for deficits, all stops, then interest and debt obligations just rise, burden the state now and burden the state tomorrow. Nobody cares about that. They throw, they laugh, ha ha, ha, this will pass, and we will see what happens tomorrow. The general interest is something else. Those who come after us, for us in the SRS, is either motive or reason to deal with politics to leave something behind, if we can't in a material sense, at least create generations that will be better than us, who won't even think about being ruled by principles and manners as we did. Did you give them that? Of course not. You didn't allow them because you left them with poverty and they were forced to rule as well as you. You're having a fight with a general interest, with a public interest, you don't have any touch points with it, and that's why we live our lives today, and that's why we're going through it, and that's why we pay for everything we pay for. The idea of the SRS, Mrs Dragutinovic, and in this story and in all discussions today, and by the end of your government's mandate, will be to try to stop organized wasteland. What's going on in the country is the category of organized waste. You may agree with her as a politician, but as someone who teaches public finances or economics, he knows exactly what's going on here and he knows exactly what kind of message we're sending you. We can't accept the fact that you're okay with it. I repeat, this is organized wasteland. The SRS doesn't want any part of it, and we'll do everything we can to change that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50181	Since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, 17 minutes have been used. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (No) Before we move to a debate on the application for a word, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that our work today will be completed by the conclusion of the debate in the principle of the draft law currently under review, so item 2 of the agenda. If the work is completed before 6:00, then the work day will be over. If the pace of the debate is required, then on the basis of Article 87, we will work today until we have completed the debate on the agenda point, and tomorrow's working day will begin with a debate on the 3rd point of the agenda. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written word, and with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: DSS, Forward Serbia and the SRS. The first to be declared is MP Radojko Obradovic, followed by MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50182	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, item 2 of today's agenda is a $400m debt. In the principle debate, fellow MPs who spoke before me pointed out that when it comes to borrowing, it can always be justified or unjust, but whether it is justified or not we can only say if we know what the corrections are, what we are waiting for, what we will do with these money, what we will do in 2012, what awaits us in the years to come. If we have an answer to that question, then we will easily say – yes, this borrowing is justified or this borrowing is unwarranted. We don't have any answers to any key questions that plague Serbia today. And, if so and as long as that is the case, no borrowing will be justified, because it will not solve any of the problems Serbia has today, as no one in Serbia today believes to have solved any problem related to the PIO reform. It's been two years, the law was passed, like, overnight, without words, and all the problems were left. Reforms in Serbia have been conducted in education for ten years. When you listen to educators, it's clear that there's a bunch of problems waiting to be solved. Secondly, a very important question is – who is taking care of the financial system in Serbia? The National Bank, on the one hand, runs the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand. The National Bank says it is the key to de-euroisation, to move from euro debt to dinars. The Prime Minister tells us -- that, let's start talking more in dinars, don't be in debt in euros, and here the state is in debt in euros. Why is the state in charge of the euro, if it does so directly opposite the work of the National Bank and if the Prime Minister, with authority, says – let us not be in debt in euro? Who are the state's top creditors at the moment? Who can buy government bonds, there's hundreds of millions of them, broadcast every day? Who gives us these loans? Let's just look at the list of institutions where the state is in charge while you're in charge: the IMF, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, I apologize, the list is quite long, the Bank of Intect, the "Marfin Bank", "Unicredit Bank", "Pireus Bank", "Eurobanka EFG", "Alpha Bank", "Hipo Alpe-Adria", "Vojvodjanska Banka", "National Banka" of Greece, now "Sosite General Bank". I thought it was the bank's task to credit the economy, but it is obvious that there has been a complete change in Serbia and that banks in Serbia are lending the state. Of course, it's the least risk of crediting the state, especially when it's paying such high interest. If you're lending to the state, you don't have any risk, but if you're lending to the state, you won't be lending to the economy. If you don't lend to the economy, what is this country going to live on next year? Where are these 400,000 people who lost their jobs and those hundreds of thousands who didn't have a job? The basic question is the question of responsibility. Serbia has a deficit because there is a crisis. When there's a crisis, then the deficited funding is trying to solve the crisis problem. Right? Yes, it is. But that's why there's responsibility and there's fiscal responsibility. There's a State Aid Act, which you say no one respects in your government. The question is why so many announced Fiscal Councils have not yet been formed. You're all too late. Authorised promoters were late with a proposal from the candidates. It's the end of February, and there's still no fiscal council elected, which should tell us some basics and evaluate all of this that you're doing. In late November, you proposed budget rebalance, that rebalancing was adopted. It turns out that at the end of December, a month later, the state spent significantly less money than that rebalancing was planned. That's supposed to be a good thing, but the question is-- then when the state proposed rebalancing in November, why didn't it suggest about as much as it would spend? The answer is there, too, very simple. Since the IMF was under pressure to adopt the Fiscal Responsibility Act, the fiscal formula adopted, that we adopted a budget rebalance for 2010 and that the budget was balanced, then we would have an obligation as a state and you as the Ministry of Finance to have a far smaller deficit this year than you predicted. I don't think it's a responsibility and I don't think it solves any problem. When we look at GDP, along with all these subsidies, increased borrowing and all these loans that the state has withdrawn and the billions for which we are in debt, last year Serbia recorded GDP growth of 1.5%. GDP counts in a rather anachronous way, but it is very often expressed, or commonly, both in dinars and in euros, regardless of our currency is a dinar. When GDP growth compared to 2010 is, of course, for inflation plus this real growth, in dinars, of course, increased, but in euro, the value of GDP is lower in 2010 compared to 2009. That's official data from the finance ministry. That difference is 500m euros. In 2010, GDP is 500m euros lower than it was a year earlier. How, then, is it possible that Serbia's public debt has decreased by 3.5 percentage points over the past month? By counting on this year to rise dramatically in GDP, even though it has dropped in the past year. Of course, you will prove to various mathematics that inflation is 0%, that public debt is not growing, that we are not in debt, that citizens live great, that highways are built, that corridors are flourishing, that jobs are opening, but unfortunately, except for government sessions, there is no such thing in Serbia. We will start solving problems in Serbia only when we speak the truth and when we come out with accurate data. Every new crisis in the government is approaching us with accurate data, and the more crisis in the government, I guess, we'll have more information that will show us more clearly what kind of country we live in. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50183	Seven minutes and 15 seconds used by the MP's group. The word comes from MP Dragan Šormaz, followed by MP Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50184	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the adopted budget predicts 120 billion dinars of deficits, and now the government is proposing that we be in charge, by who knows which time in a row. Practically, it has become a practice that every session of the Assembly, since last year, whether it is a regular or extraordinary session in progress, we have at each session of the Assembly a single task and the most common reason, as well as this, is covering the deficits, i.e. The costs that the state of Serbia has and cannot meet its needs from real sources, therefore, from those who pay taxes and various types of contributions, taxis, excise taxes and so on in this country. Nothing is enough that the state of Serbia, as formed by the current government of Mr Cvetkovic, could function. Now, as a parliament, we need to re-authorize a $400m debt. Whether the Government, the Department of Statistics, the finance minister, tells us the exact data, which is just spoken about, or not, whether various statistical methodologies, mathematics, are trying to make a better picture than it is – I don't think it matters anymore. Serbian citizens live their lives every day, see how they feel and know that they are getting harder and harder from day to day. Of course they know well enough, when they see us here and hear what we're talking about, that the next period with this government will be even harder. Because nothing is done here to help this real sector work and to work better, but we're just borrowing to move from one financial year to another, to endure as a government, and after that it will be. Who will remain a minister, who will not remain, most likely none of the present. The situation is such that citizens are absolutely clear about what the situation is, so they do not need data to say that they live well or not. Because some data is irrefutable, 400,000 people have lost their jobs, 200,000 new ones have been promised, we're talking about the real sector again, in the sector where it's going, in the sector that pays for everything that the state lives on, the economy and agriculture, above all. There's lost jobs, there's lost profits, there's a price of meat, say, for farmers, there's a price of corn, so now they don't know what to do with their customers, they're minus. There are problems every day. And these 400 million dollars, either there or here, however you turn, won't fix the situation in either the state or this government. So 400,000 jobs lost and more, and an investment has been made for some 20,000 new employees. You may say it's 200,000, but it's my right to trust people from the IMF who say 400,000, anyway, and I'm in touch with the citizens of Serbia every day and I see what they're in, talking about how many people in which the family loses their jobs and where they lose, where they get fired, where they even go to work, so fictitiously, without getting paid. How much the company doesn't pay for contributions and pensions at all. We've seen the example of that man who missed one day so he could retire, even those situations happen. Was this necessary? I'll tell you a few examples where you could save and you don't have to raise this $400 million. Here, brag, talk, I don't know, Corridor 10, even though nothing's done. It's almost a year before the president of the state doesn't mention bridges, and in time he talked about them, and how, how, when the state of Serbia is the first state in Europe, the number of bridges currently being built. Here, I'll give you concrete examples for the largest number of these bridges. We've approved loans here and for "Gazel" and "Pance Bridge," and as far as I know, there's only some iron painted on the Pancheva Bridge, and that's all, because whoever goes through it knows, it's in the same state as it was a few years ago. "Gazala" isn't over. Are the papers in due time? No, they're not. The bridge on Beška is built like the Shkodar on Bojana, all the deadlines have passed, and the price has been broken by the first tender. I'm talking about a bridge on Ada that I'm not even talking about. The 120m-euro deal, has already arrived at over 300, 400, and has not begun to buy the country for access routes. Just figure out how much money that could have saved from public money. Whether it's the Belgrade budget or the Republic's budget, it doesn't matter. Here, and in the Republic's budget, a contract has been signed, and plus a job works, to point out, a company from Slovenia that has bankrupted. The question is, will he be able to finish the job? You signed a contract to build the Iron Bridge in Novi Sad. You gave a job for four million dollars, so one percent of this figure, one that offered more or less in a tender for four million dollars, than the one that was first on that, the Spanish firm, which is, look, miracles, too, let me not say bankruptcy, but nothing works in Spain. Otherwise, the whole construction sector is broken in Spain; in Spain it is the most unemployed, 20%, from the construction sector. So, we need a Spanish firm, and we are talking about our companies, coming to build a bridge in Serbia to help them with the money, too, from borrowing from the EU. I'm telling you again, check it out, you'll see! Four million dollars was given by the company more than first placed on the tender offer, and you signed a contract with them, not with those who made a smaller offer. That's 1% of the borrowing we have here today. So when we add up how much more money you spent on the bridge on Ada, and who knows when it's going to be over, when we add up all this stuff you could find those $400m to save yourself, for example, public procurement and the whole public procurement procedure and to do what is appropriate in the EU countries, which we all strive to do. Here is the problem, which everyone has their own ban, and now you're at war about it, and we need to wait 15 days to see who makes this new coalition. During that time, of course, we have to keep borrowing the state so that it can work at all. We heard earlier from a colleague and about the costs of public enterprises, 900 of them working with a minus, so when we consider it, you didn't do any of what you promised, which is – repairing life, of course, economic life in the real sector, and you didn't cut the costs in the public sector, not at least where it mattered. And I said, here, I cited these examples in public procurement. Now we need to grant you a loan again, wait for us and a new one, I've reviewed the material you've given now, we have a few laws, proposals that have already arrived, which will be at the sessions for the next days. After that, I'm sure something more recent will arrive because this projected deficit of 120 billion dinars needs to be covered. Who knows how big they'll be at the end, when you offer budget rebalances, you'll surely suggest it. That's why Serbia has no other way. The story of Serbia being less in charge, let's say, of neighbouring Croats per capita, and that's true, so what does that have to do with it? Croatia has so many coasts, they have much more opportunity to repay these loans than we do. We can only repay loans from real sources. So, industrial production and agriculture, strengthening the real sector. We need to help the real sector, agriculture, and not keep borrowing it, tax policy, taxes, excises, create new burdens -- and then they quit so they can respect it, because they don't have business plans to expand jobs, but they stick to the level where they are or reduce jobs so that their companies can survive as much as possible. And then? It's the only way we can repay our debts. We don't have the sea, our tourism, whether we want it or not, it can't be developed to pay back those debts. Only the real sector can return it, but it is not being helped, and the public is not being reduced. It is the biggest problem in the state of Serbia. You can't do that, there's no government reconstruction that'll allow you to do that. Because for three years you've done nothing, you've done nothing, you've increased the debt of the state, you've increased the number of unemployed, you've cut the wages, inflation has increased, and what's going to happen now, in the next day, when the EPS raises electricity? Well, they'll get it all together, not just coal, they'll pick up everything, and bread, a colleague, again. Then what happens? We have an inflation increase again, that's for sure. Then how do you repay those debts, in what way?- I'm sorry. What happens to employees' salaries, because we see that the public sector is strikein' more and more? You don't have a solution for this. The solution is much better to lead the state, not to spend, but to host, not to waste money on projects and 25 000 euros sites, which can be made for two or three thousand euros. The only way is by host management of the economy and the state, and this government is not capable of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50185	11 minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic, and after that, MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50186	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I left Valjev this morning, where the sea of strikes is. The workers of the House of Health strike in Valjevo because three states and its apparatus are unable to implement the procedure of detachment from the Health Center, although the procedure is practically completed. They strike because they don't know what their pay is, because they don't receive their wages in time, they don't know when they're receiving, they don't know what their basic value is. They strike schools at Val's. The Minister of Education is being completely naive and uninterested that schools work for 30 minutes, so when the children make up for everything and on Saturdays, then we'll ask Mr. Minister if we'll send the children to school. The fighters strike in Valjev because in 1990, a party, which is now in the government, led them to wars and failed to fulfill the promise it made to them. I don't know if the cops are on strike, because, as I read in the paper, they've gotten a raise from that budget that can't be redistributed, 30% and all those perks that can't get either the enlighteners or these fighters. I mean, it looks like that minister was involved or successful, and these others obviously aren't. Other information, which I want to start with, is the fact that 400,000 unemployed people are the product of this government's work; this is the fantastic success of this government. We didn't know it from them either, but when people came from the side. The average salary is 33,000 and slightly higher, and the average pension is about 19,000 dinars. The average consumer basket is about 50,000 dinars, so as Serbian citizens live, at least compare it that way. Not all pensioners are in a position to have an average pension. Here I have a lady's ballot from Valjev, it would be really ugly to read her name, where she writes – the payment of the first part of the reception for November. Do you know what her pension is? So 208.63 dinars. He'll get 205.71 dinars for the payoff. I'll give this to Madam Minister, to bring Mr. Krkobic to see how well the pensioners live in Valjevo. And the debt of the country of Serbia, which you are doing so well, and you are very much boasting about it, is growing by 3,300 euros every minute, while the government is distracting us with some personal disputes, reconstructions, circuses in and out of the Assembly and MPs are peacefully spending their two-month winter break. Serbia's external debt reached 23.8 billion euros at the end of 2010. Since September 2008, it has increased by four billion euros. It's a fantastic effect of this government, my lords. If we had a little mathematically set up these four billion euros, we would have come up with amazing data, so every day this government owed Serbia 202,000 euros, so much you cost Serbia, below you, a minute of Serbian citizens cost 3,300 euros. This government obviously has no idea that it runs the country, but that's why ministers are very disbanded and very high-quality and efficient in spending the budget for their own personal needs. Here's an example of Minister Dulic, 25,000 euros, Serbian citizens, gave Minister Dulic for the Clean Serbia site and spent 400,000 euros on the "Let's Clean Serbia" promotion campaign! The promoters, of course, were public figures, all in line with the list, sympathisers and members of the ruling coalition, who had no personal awareness of participating in this campaign for free, but were well paid. Gentlemen of the government, consider yourself, do not spend the money of Serbian citizens in this way. Citizens of Serbia, and you think about it, elections are close, Serbia will be a clean country only if you clean up those in power! Apparently the government spends its budget very quickly and successfully, but since its appetites are very large, it needs more money. How does that money come about? They owe Serbian citizens, our grandchildren, great-grandsons and everyone else that they won't be able to raise their heads in 100 or 200 years. They've been borrowing us from various governments, various states, and now it's a $400m loan due to funding the budget deficit, that's the hole they're making, the refinance of the debt, and that's the commercial bank, which is even worse, at the Sosite General, and this time, the minister, she's very clear to us that the World Bank is guaranteed this loan. What does that mean for Serbian citizens? Serbian citizens must know that they are paying payments to some old credit with this loan, and that this country will always go with them, and for God's sake, when they leave for many years, because they have ruined this country. The prime minister told us he was advised by a team of top economists and that he would not want to rank them, but it is very clear that these economists did not tell him to owe the country. On the other hand, what did economists say to him at the 2011 economic movement set – Expectations and Risks? They said that responsibility is one of the biggest problems of the country's domestic economy. The Prime Minister obviously didn't listen at the time. Such an accelerated borrowing must concern every citizen of Serbia, but apparently there is no need to worry about the finance minister, who has very clearly announced these facts about the new loan, nor the Serbian government, because they say it is the best thing they do, that there are no better ones than they are. Gentlemen, don't kid yourself. It's hard to be worse than you. There's more to it than you want. What is a fact and what citizens need to know, this government owes Serbia and leads it into debt slavery and bankruptcy. Serbian citizens must know that. Serbia's public debt at the end of 2010 was 12.17 billion. My colleague Radulovic has already drawn the attention of Mrs Dragutinovic that she has not given us the exact data we asked for and I must remind you that according to the law that you have proposed, and this parliament voted, the Law on fiscal responsibility, the limit of duty is 45% of GDP, and now you are at 41.5%, well, here you go. Good luck! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50187	Seven minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50188	Thank you. Mrs Dragutinović, are you ready to resign? If so, if I understand correctly by your stone face, the expression of your face, then it is good to do so as soon as possible, because it is not good for you to be in the government, which, by its political action, but also by the economic activity for which you are in charge, undermines vital state and national interests. Are you and the majority who support you aware of the fact that you are on the verge of undermining state and national interests? To that end, you're jeopardizing the citizens' existence that it's unsustainable. To this end, you are in charge of the state to ask a valid question – who will return it? But the most important question, which will be asked very quickly, when this map tower of yours is collapsed, is – who will be responsible for what was done in the past, the past and what is done here and this year? Today is the first day of the session in this year and we on the agenda have an additional $400m debt to the commercial bank. How long?- I'm You in February, and you made this decision in the government as early as January, you have to withdraw this amount of funds to cover the budget deficit. What happens in March? What happens in May? What happens by September of the month, by the end of the year, if, God forbid, you stay in power? How'd all this go? You came to power by the President of the Republic, and all of you in a package with him, promising 200,000 jobs. Now the IMF is informing us that 400,000 people lost their jobs, 70 people every hour. By the end of this session, 200 people will probably be out of a job. About how much you owe this country, there were words here, every second 45 euros. Look, three seconds have passed, this country is 150 euros more in charge! Four million euros a day in debt to the state -- ten days, there's a salary for educators. You said you had it in reserve, but then they told you you didn't, that you owed a lot more. I'm glad to see you're following this discussion and writing down, but I'd rather you participate in this discussion. Prime Minister Cvetkovic announced a new energy. So, where's that energy? Is it manifested by listening with academic peace to what is said and with academic peace to comment on and give some of your information at the end of this debate? It's not a parliamentary debate. So maybe you can work in college, and that's fine, but you can't do it like that and you can't do it in parliament. You know, Deputy Minister Dinkic debated and went into debate with lawmakers here. So we see what his destiny is, but I appreciated at least that trait of his. And that's what you keep quiet about here. Who gives you the guarantee that you won't be replaced in a week until the start of the government's reconstruction? Why are you surprised? You see to what extent Prime Minister Cvetkovic is determined to put all his shortcomings in all the restaurants, and especially in the economy, 'put 'under the line'? It's realistic to expect you to be hit too. Don't shut up, say something, talk, save your soul, in the far line. Because, as I told you, don't laugh, vital, national and state interests are threatened, in every sense. This government and this government have succeeded politically in jeopardising the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state. Someone's gonna have to answer for that. To this end, the government has tasked its citizens and to this end has brought down the standard of its citizens that someone will also have to answer for it, each in its own portfolio. You deny reality. You're running away from reality. We warned you here when the financial crisis broke out what was going to happen. You said it was an advantage and it was our chance. We told you when we discussed the rebalancing that we'd see each other again in three months, that you had unrealistic projections, that you were spending more than income. You've denied it, but every week you've been here neatly supplying legal proposals where we've been second-guessing each other. For the budget in December, we told you that by destroying the economy, but what's worst and what we warned you about in December of the month, because when we saw the budget, we told you that it was unsustainable for the citizens, and it now turns out to be true. You can't live with this much money, with this average income, and with so much cost and so much price growth. It seems clear to everyone, and to the citizens, it's just not clear to you. That's why you're collapsing from the inside. That's why you're counting on the inside. There's nothing left for you but to transfer responsibility to each other now. So, I don't doubt it, but it's a fact that I don't like, but I'm very unhappy, very disappointed and very sad, that in seven days, and the announcements are already going, we're going to discuss a similar law again. I need to be further in debt for 200 million dollars, euros, correcting me, whatever. Do you realize this has to get in the way? It's inadmissible borrowing. You are inadmissiblely pushing the country into bankruptcy and serious economists are already talking about it. And the people say well, where there is truth and truth. So, what's the price for you to leave power? That the country is bankrupt? To bring down all the segments in this society to this extent, and you're on a good path, that recovery will be very long and difficult? And you knew so well that you promised, you promised so well, and so, until the other day, you spread, with a smile on your face, optimism among the citizens. So I repeat the question from the beginning of this debate – will you resign? I hope you will, but in the interest of the state and the citizens, you should do it as soon as possible. After all, don't let it happen to you that Prime Minister Cvetkovic is changing you and blaming you for what you're not really guilty of. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50189	Seven minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, followed by the MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have repeatedly reiterated during this session that the first job of the National Assembly in this year refers to new borrowing and to the Assembly, which has procedurely to finish this work for the representatives of the government, is not at all an honor. Trouble over your head. The dissatisfaction and difficult position of the majority of the population is growing, and the first thing the government does is to finance the budget deficit. It is true that the 2011 Budget Law, Article 4, defined that this loan would be granted. In presenting this bill, we have heard that the funds will be used to finance budget deficits and to pay off the commitments made. When the 2011 Budget Law was adopted, the SRS MPs said that the cost of awareness in the more realistic frameworks was necessary, however, representatives of the authorities did not want to hear it. Now the problem has become clear that there is no money to pay off the commitments that are due, that there is no money for any project to be implemented on its own, but that each must be credited. In Article 4. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia sets out loans to be granted by the Republic of Serbia amounting to 409.3 billion dinars. Among them is the one we're talking about today. When the budget debate was held, we said that you planned your expenditures at too high a level. Years ago, you set up a number of agencies, a variety of para-state authorities, and you created new budget users that define a large amount of money for over-paid executives, for boards of directors and supervisors. It didn't matter what jurisdiction overlapped, so there was a situation where one employee was fired, I'm talking about a farce with two rationalisation laws in the state and local administration. On the one hand, people got fired, on the other hand, the State Auditor's report is full of irregularities. A large number of irregularities refer to services under contract. Almost all controlled budget users have concluded contracts on the conduct of operations that are regularly systematised, and it is well known that they did not have the right to do so and that such a procedure broke the law. For a bill like this, it's a small matter to say it's unfair. I'm not going to use any uglier words that would more truthfully characterise what's written. When I say this, I am specifically referring to Article 3(1) point 3. The main part of the justification for the adoption of this debt law concerns the clarification of the public procurement procedure. It is undeniable that this part needs to be explained, especially when we know that corruption in Serbia is the most pronounced in the area of public procurement and we do not mind that you explained that this offer is more favourable than other offers. But what's unfair is how to pay off a loan. According to the proposal for a law, the proposal to repay the interest rate is 72 months or six years, and the payment of the principal – once after the duration of the loan. The money will be taken now in 2011. For the next six years, only interest will be paid, and then, in 2017, someone will have to pay back $400m from the Republika Srpska budget at once. You don't see this much dishonesty every day. At this point, the obvious problem of payment of the commitments that are due is resolved by borrowing. Citizens now need to be explained how it is foreseen? Which experts have calculated that in six years Serbia will be able to service normal functioning, that it will be able to meet obligations that then come down to the charge without being in debt. The last few years have been marked by frequent borrowings, and most of these loans have a long grace period. Money is being spent now, and it's not enough. Needs are getting bigger. And what happens when the time comes for these loans to come back? The situation in the economy is getting worse, and that means that the foundation of this country is weak and that weak foundation needs to endure a huge burden burden burdened by a great debt. For the absurd to be greater, amendments to the Budgetary System Act, which relate to fiscal responsibility, have been adopted and are defined to what extent borrowing is possible. It was, in fact, a commitment you had to fulfill. In 2017, it is likely that the law adopted will have to be respected. Now no one wonders how the state will function, how loans will return, and settle their commitments. What happens when there's no way to take credit? It's irrelevant to today's furniture, the only thing that matters right now is the moment, and what happens to the generations that are coming? I think it turns out it's just their problem. Something else marked the previous year, leaving a deep mark on the future of the next generations – the process of unfair privatisation. It's been sold out because everything worth it, the workers are out of a job, the money that was in the budget on that basis has been spent, but not for new businesses. Despite that privatisation money, the debt was piled up. For several years, there have been no large privatisations that would fill the lack of money in the budget. And as one of the problems, Prime Minister Cvetkovic also noted at the start of the government's mandate. His words were, "We haven't sold anything in a long time." Here, before the end of the term, the government announced privatisation or sales of Telecom. No one takes note of what the opposition representatives say, that such a profitable company should be preserved at this time, in order to bring profits to the state. However, the campaign for new elections cannot be imagined by the government without that money she planned from the sale of Telecom. At this or that price, one or that interested bidder will sell Telecom, so the Republic of Serbia's budget will remain short of significant funds in the coming years. This combination: debt, unemployment, reduction of money in the budget, is one of the hardest to leave to future generations. I'm not sure anyone would want that legacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50191	Seven minutes and 40 minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic. He's not present. ) The word has a People's MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50192	Mrs. Comic, how much time do we have left as a group?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50193	It's available 59.30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50194	Based on these comments, I have to be very, very careful, given that no warning has been dropped since this morning, so I don't open that season. Good!
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50195	Please don't disturb the MP if he wants to open the season.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50196	You know I don't get mad when they get it. It's good, so they come in, they recognize themselves, they change dynamics, then they better get what they're saying. So I'm taking a big risk today to repeat those criticisms I've been repeating for years, and apparently someone remembered it, someone didn't remember. Well, let's focus on what the media says, what analysts say. Analysts say -- never more popular was one government and they were never as popular parties as these parties in the government. Are they telling the truth, are they hiding something, I really don't know? But I am trying to ask a question – on what basis have they achieved this kind of popularity and so much popularity? Fired, sold out, public procurement, you know! In my opinion, all the bad results, not to mention Kim, not to mention further, but your popularity has jumped. And then the question arises – what is the reason that popularity jumps? Imagine, and Mrs Dragutinovic joined "the company of successful finance ministers for the past few years". Remember, Mladjan Dinkic was the best minister in the world, so Djelic got some international recognition, and Mrs Dragutinovic received a big award before the New Year, so she was also decorated?- I'm sorry. For what they are decorated, it is not clear to me, but, analysts say, the media, say this newspaper where Djelic is co-owner, and economists and experts, you know, when they take a hair, so they cut it into 16 parts per length, anything is possible. This means, Mrs Dragutinovic, that I cannot criticise either the government or the finance ministry, because, according to a public opinion survey, citizens are eager to wait for Serbia to be in charge. They can't wait! The more Serbia is in debt, the more popularity the parties in power jumps. The more foreign investors take money and flee across the border, the more popular ministers get. That's what Jumko was like, remember, took the money and ran away, said they had these others, but I don't open that topic, because I have to praise you. What's to praise? Well, you know, those people who voted in favour of the 2011 budget also have to vote for these proposals of the borrowing laws, because they are already contained in the Budget Law. Does this borrowing law show what economic policy is like? You can tell. What do you see? There is no economic policy! Here's an example: if we are to be in so much debt this year because we have an ambience, a hole in our budget, then the question is: and what are we going to finance from the money that we get on the basis of the debt – the promotion of agriculture, pensions, education, health care, the military? What did you use this money for? Then we come to the question – where is the hole? The hole is there that in the entire system of state authorities and the functions of state authorities there is something that should not be paid. Big savings can be made there, but what's the problem? The problem is, you guys are really getting popularity in those places where they need to be saved. These are: State secretaries, agencies, etc. So, respected citizens, we live by European standards. We are formally-legal in the EU, but we live by European standards, pure communism. You're in charge, you're fired, and at the end of the year you figure out -- 40,000 citizens died more than they were born in this Serbia. Where is our border, where our territories are, no one can ask a question, just work. We're in charge of funding, what? State administration. What else? Pensions! How pensions to finance out of debt, the IMF won't let that happen. To finance health care? He's just been working to fund health care! To finance agriculture? Just work, well, agriculture blooms, in the spring, only in the spring is our agriculture, when it's time! Large export results, epochal profit, are purchased from farmers at a low price, and after two months the price rises three times. Of course, businessmen in agriculture are successful, and poor peasant, poor peasant! He in his ignorance increases the popularity of his dear president. So, Serbia is humming the European way?- I'm sorry. What happened in the 20 years of European times, 10 years of intensive European times? What happened in the world? At the time of globalization, China has become the second power of social product size, Russia is on its feet, India will be the third power in the world in a few years, Brazil progresses, Argentina progresses, traditional friends of the Serbian Radical Party that you attacked us for in 2000, and your friends from Western Europe in Belgium cannot form a government for 30 months. Well, what he said the other day -- well, if the Belgians can do without a government, then what does the government in Serbia do to us? It is important that popularity jumps, it is important that the most important document in the Republic of Serbia is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is the most important act, what constitution, what laws, 126, so no matter what alchemy is present. If someone's going to come back, it's no longer interested in anyone in this country, that's what I have to tell you. The hungry mouth, of course, always appears to the state, expected of the state, because the state is guaranteed. The state offers safe houses, folk cuisine, NGOs, suspicious donors! And here, in the theoretical sense of the word, the discussion of finance, economics, epochal things – we are not in charge of 45% of GDP, but only 41%. These are the cheapest loans. Maybe "Sosite General" in two years and it's not on our market, which wouldn't surprise anyone, not only when it comes to this bank, but also other banks. You can see that throughout Western Europe, affairs are opening up over their banks, Raiffeisen, Hipo Alpe-Adria, that I'm not order any further. And here, everything is successful, we're going to be in a crisis to profit, as one minister said, the other says it's going to make us serious, the third one has bad results, because the whole world has bad results. You see, you're too late with this weapon for Algeria. If you'd delivered that weapon in time, there might not be any of these riots in Algeria. And now, after these riots, I don't know if that weapon goes for power or opposition. I don't know what warrant came in Garmispartnerchen. These are terrible things, and you're getting popular. The people can't wait to see you. Polls say you are popular, with no results or only negative results, but Serbia likes to be down. Serbia loves to be in a downer, and it has really been down since it set out towards the EU and NATO pact. Where those who give us national, political, economic and all the trouble, you walk towards them, headlongly, at all costs! How many million euros were used to solve that rebus, Questionnaire? You took him away a few days ago. Can we endure as you now optimisticly say – in five years we will be members of the EU? Who in Serbia can wait five years, as you dream? But you don't dream it, you weed, you wear it, you shake in every place. You have a saying, what, like, "IMT, am I there?" That's it, that's it. There used to be -- and where am I, now IMT, "Is there me?"- I'm sorry. Now, that's where you got into a fight, about, like, "Is there me?" And your popularity jumps. Coalition capacities are uninterrupted, they are non-drying, as the whole of Serbia is defined as heading towards the EU. There's a rescue! If there's a medal coming from Brussels for a minister, who can believe in abroad medals?- I'm sorry. We're in charge, and we don't know why. We know there's a hole in the budget, and we don't know where that hole is -- is that hole in the part where the government spends or some ministry, or is there a hole where the government provides the citizens. Where's that hole? Let us remember, more or less, all pro-European parties voted in favour of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The only one not pro-European and found is the SRS. You know we can't vote for yours. Because we don't vote for it yours, we're down to popularity, and you're doing damage and jumping your popularity. Well, she can go to Milan Nikolic, Bogosavljevic and these, but believe me, every day more and more citizens will turn to themselves, push their hands into their pockets, see what they have, how much they can endure, how dangerous these sweet stories – beauty at hand are possible in five years. And who will survive you for the next five years or this policy? Who else can pro-European politics survive in this country? The people can't take this anymore. Here it takes a change of policy by 180 degrees. You're taking the country in the wrong direction. That road you're taking won't allow normal life in Serbia. You're missing your polls and those tits you're playing around coalition capacity, he wants in, he won't come in, he wants out, he won't come out. You're shaking the public like the public's shaking God knows what. They fought over the prey, because the bar was cut, and the crocodiles were harassed in that bar for a long time, and they grew up, and their appetites grew, and now they're going to tear away the pieces. That's how it was in 2003. Every time you're in power, it's the ultimate goal you're leading this country towards. Whether 400 million, 200 million, 300 million, two million, absolutely doesn't matter, it doesn't matter if it's the Sosite General, whether it's another bank, the IMF, the World Bank or anything else. You systematically destroy the base so people can think about a perspective, and you get popularity. Your popularity keeps jumping! You're the strongest in Serbia right now. No one can compete with you. The people are eager to vote for the Democratic Party, ZEZ, ZEZ, and coalition partners. Why? Maestro results – thousands fired, pensions significantly increased by 2%. Now, in such conditions, you run this country. God forbid your script comes true, so where do we end up? Thank you, Mrs. Comic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50197	From the time of the parliamentary group, 15 minutes and 40 seconds have been used. The word has been given by MP Dragan Stevanovic, and after that, MP Milorad Buha and this is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50198	Thank you. How much time do we have, I apologize, just so I know, as a parliamentary group? (President: You have 44 minutes. ) Mrs Dragutinović, let me say something that I may have forgotten earlier or not have arrived, but I think it is necessary for you to hear it, and to hear it from the public, the SRS has certainly not in any discussion, and in terms of borrowing, has not disputed the possibility that the state may finance its deficit by borrowing. X times we are very tendingly put it on the load as – well, that's so, it's so sea, it's one of the possibilities. We don't dispute it, but we do dispute the credibility of those who will spend $400 million. The document that we are discussing today in any of our members or attitudes does not indicate how money will be spent. I can ask you now and you can tell me how much money will go to finance the deficits, and how much money to refinance the debts and I can trust you, or I don't have to, but it doesn't say anywhere here, so we're afraid that a three-year-old practice is going to spend money on who knows what. Can you resist the informal centers of power that have ruled the government for three years? I'm asking you, can you control the spending of $400 million? If you take into account what's been going on in the financial sphere, what's our situation, we're justifiably doubting it. We really doubt your credibility. Now listen to this. The government's basic economic objectives – a steady growth in economic activity, employment growth, increasing citizens' standards, even regional development. Listen now – the expected result is the opening of at least 200,000 new jobs over the next four years and the reduction of the unemployment rate from 18 to 11.9%. Do you know where this came from? This was taken from Mirko Cvetkovic's 2008 exposé! We do not have to wait until the end of the term – can you tell us that what I read will happen by the end of the year, when your mandate expires? We weren't being deceived just for action, look who was fooling us all, and the prime minister. He promised 200,000 jobs. And since the end of 2008, up to today, 250,000 people have been out of work! But I'm not saying this to abuse a pay phone. Of those people who are employed, you're collecting taxes to finance your current commitments without talking about an implicit debt that will only come and which, apparently, does not take into account when these loans are withdrawn. Why are we angry and gunned down? Because, Mrs Dragutinovic, we don't all wear the same burden of your political adventures in this country. Do you know what the average salary of the people of Lebana municipality is? The average salary of the population is 1,900 dinars! The average salary of the inhabitants of Vladic's Han municipality is 2,400 dinars! Who are you gonna take money from to repay your debts? At the same time I ask you, Mrs Dragutinović, it says here, as the fourth, even regional development, do you know what the average salary per capita is on the Savaweave? The average for 2010, official data, is – 91,000 dinars. Well, from where? How do we keep that bile inside us? How much more can we endure the stories of European Serbia, the perspective of the future and read such devastating data? Mrs Dragutinovic, why don't you say why you paid three billion in the budget, just in January? Is it true that two billion and 900 were singled out for the Satellite affair? Who's in Serbia for that?- I'm sorry. You don't care, you fight. We've given out of the budget two billion and 900 million dinars, it's going to be covered by this money, because some hoodlum signed a contract and Serbia pays a penalty today. Well, as you pay for those foams, and you're not personally responsible for it, so in six years they'll be paying for your political adventures and exhibitionism. No one's talking about it. What, black, European Serbia? This isn't even in Trinidad and Tobago, Sierra Leone, I don't know where either, those who don't have a sewer yet. Mrs Dragutinovic, I would ask you, too, once again, do we know how money will be spent? Now these authorities are asking if you have a solution. They're looking for a solution. Here, we offered a solution through one amendment. We have offered you a solution, which is not only estimated to be good, that you can protect yourself from informal power centres in the government, from those you cannot face and deal with them, tycoons, etc., we have suggested that you hide behind this highest legislative body in Serbia, that the Finance Committee, you will see in the amendment, make a decision on the basis of which money will be spent from this loan, and it concerns funding deficits. Here, your discretionary right, as minister, is to determine how you will refinance your debts. Let the Finance Committee decide to finance programmes and projects at the local, regional and national level of these $400m. And we're as ready as the SRS to make a complete motion for a decision, but let's all take part, let one sound decision be made with consensus, that everyone can benefit, so that we in southern Serbia, in Surdulica, and God and those in the north, in Vojvodina, and that we know what we've spent $400, 300 or 200 million in credit that will pay those who don't have a touch point with this. If we're going to hear from you, we're going to see. Here, we specifically suggested what to do. No one can ask if you have a solution, here, we have a solution, we suggest you and you can, I repeat, hide behind it. We can't hide our heads under the carpet anymore, into the sand to stab her. It's not working anymore. You've brought Serbia into such a position. Today, at a factory in Surdulica, Mrs Dragutinovic, police intervened with fired workers. It's RS Partners, a privatized factory. (The People's MP Slavoljub Stajkovic, from the place: Who privatized? ) The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Privatisation Agency, Mr Stajkovic, then made 10 controls at the factory, and based on these controls, brought a solution to the termination of the contract, and then someone from the informal centres ordered the Agency to cancel the decision on the termination of the contract, so, then, the new owner returned the company and fired 40 workers. And you know what the workers are looking for? The workers are asking to even fire them under the law. Let them declare them a technological surplus and fire in accordance with the law, and not post-traumatically remain, and this agony has been passed on to police and workers, without any need. It's neither the employee's weakness nor the police's problem, nor the owner's problem. It's the weakness and incomparability of the state, but the state is capable of withdrawing $400 million, no problem at all. Who's going to spend it, none of these people who are going to vote for it don't know or maybe because of political... I don't know if you've read Mr. Bayatovic's last interview, the director of Srbiagas. A man can't register an asset for 11 months. You know what he says? Well, imagine what it would be like for those who have no political ties in the government. Hey, so, the government has the nerve to ask us in such an ambiance for $400 million? Well, it doesn't occur to us to support that. Mrs Dragutinović, this is, I repeat, on behalf of the SRS, organized wasteland and you are the first man, so the cards have been divided, in this country, which has to stop it. Radicals have offered you the opportunity to be helped by the congregation. We have submitted another amendment, my colleague Lidija Dimitrijevic, if you adopt it, and you can't, because I assume you've restricted yourself by making that public call, in a public call you asked to pay this debt cumulatively for six years, these are the terms of the call for public procurement. Whose pressures were those? Who knocked that out? What informal power center? Is it a bank or someone else in the government? We're looking for those answers. You know, Mrs Dragutinovic, you as finance minister may not expect citizens anymore, but as finance minister you are obliged to offer it to them – the public and to tell them why we are withdrawing this unfavourable loan. The credit is unfavourable because of the model that's coming back, because you're going to return the interest for six years, and then you're going to give 400 million at once. From where? From 5 September workers or RS partners from Surdulice? What are we gonna sell now? We don't have islands like Greeks, etc. etc. Someone just touched Telecom. Or are you looking for a guarantee and security in Telecom sales? We're against it, against the sale of Telecom, because it's income, but we're not against the introduction of the elements of corporate governance by Telecom. Do you know why I'm telling you this, Mrs. Dragutinović? December 31st In 2010, he included 300,000 euros in a single day's sales of 200 dinars to the net. They sold over a million and 100.00 vouchers with 200 dinar supplements. I'm not talking about messages, traffic, etc. Why would you sell that? Why would the state give that? Because you need it, because you're going to the election. But, on the other hand, if we were to sit in the government, we wouldn't allow Telecom, whose founder of the state, to impose a fine and a half on the call made, on the established relationship. Are any of you using the network 064, the consumer, asked about it, in accordance with the Consumer Protection Act? You can talk and you don't have to, but when you establish a relationship, it costs you a dollar and a half. Make sure you do. These are the weaknesses of government and state. These are the institutions of which you are the founder, as the Government. And until you show the will and determination to protect the public interest, everything you do, speak and speak, or what you try to do is actually sell fog. This organized wasteland has to be stopped. You obviously don't have the strength to do that. The SRS can't support something like this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50199	From the time of the parliamentary group, 13 minutes and 30 seconds have been used. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buha, and he is the last reported speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50200	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, one of the laws that this country is in charge of and for a surprise is that, instead of today's session, we are talking about the crisis of the government, the crisis of the system, unemployment, indifference of the economy, indifference of society and state institutions, we are talking about borrowing. It was appropriate, given the government's crisis, to discuss the crisis at this extraordinary meeting, to bring out everything that was brought out in public. In public, the coalition government attacked part of the government and spoke about anti-zaconic activity, harmful contracts, harmful moves by individual ministers and state institutions, etc. All of a sudden, it's all buried, it's put under the carpet, and it's probably gonna be used the moment the pre-election activity comes in, and it's probably gonna come in real quick. What's tragic is the inability of the current government to secure normal business. Here, the current finance minister, on several occasions, said that the deficit of the budget can only be resolved in two ways: one way is borrowing either from domestic business banks or from banks and financial institutions in the world, and another is privatisation. As other states or other governments go far more thoroughly into the deficit problem, analyze the existing situation, make measures, go into legal projects that narrow down certain social benefits, the government is taking a divergent turn into borrowing. Already on several occasions, the SRS in written form and oral presentations here in parliament and the public pointed to the need for savings. The first task of this government is saving, as is present throughout the world. Here, let's start with Greece. What has Greece done since it has a difficult economic and financial situation? It cut the 2011 budget by 9.15 billion euros. In the Memorandum of Business and Financial Policy from 2011 to 2014, the plan is to save 30 billion euros. The measures to reduce deficits envision a reduction in social giving, a reduction in subsidies, a reduction in the number of agencies, a reduction in the number of workers in the administration, an increase in VAT from 19% to 23%. For example, to take Germany, Germany planned 80 billion euros in the Programme to regulate the difficult economic, social and financial situation in the 2011-2014 programme to save 80 billion euros, reduce social contributions by 30 billion euros, reduce administrative workers, reduce regulatory bodies, reduce subsidies, etc. etc. These are measures taken by countries that are in a far more favourable economic, financial and social state than the Republic of Serbia. This authority has not predicted any of these measures. They were not interested in it, and this best shows the situation today. The first item of the agenda is the giving of guarantees, the borrowing again, and the second point is borrowing, and most importantly. The most important thing is to put ourselves in charge so that we can settle all the holes that exist in the budget. Given that before the end of the year, when we adopted the 2011 budget, we didn't have enough time, because by the current authorities at the point where the Budget Act was also 11 financial acts, 11 financial laws, we couldn't point to the current government and the public who had the devastating consequences of these legislative regulations. I will read Article 2 of the budget, which is now a valid 2011 budget, which reflects the real situation in the area of finance, in the area of the government's fiscal and financial policy. Article 2 says this - The funds needed to finance the budget deficit referred to in Article 1. The 93 billion budget law, for the financing of a debt of 410 billion (not to read these zeros) and the acquisition of a 30 billion-dollar financial asset, is planned to provide loans of 130 billion dinars, through the broadcasting of government records of worth 382 billion and from the unsuspected assets of previous years of 21 billion. It's more than 5 billion euros in sums for state-of-the-art resolutions, deficit resolutions and debt refinancing, which is long-term, which is short-term. For the sake of the public, I'm going to have to read a few more financial indicators that reflect the catastrophic state of the budget. The current government, and also the finance minister, has been defined as the most unfavourable variant of budget filling and the settlement of budget commitments, through short-term borrowing, by selling securities of value, but it is important to make one scale of debt in terms of selling securities of value. In 2008, a total of eight billion dinars were sold, I mean short-term securities of value, the interest rate was 8%. In 2009 – 202 billion, from eight billion in 2008 to 202 billion, and the interest rate on average, something, over 9%. In 2010 – 369 billion. Once again, the curve goes dizzy, from eight billion to 369 billion. The 2011 plan is 534 billion, of which: 130 billion through borrowing. It's probably one of those borrowing loans, too. But what's devastating, what's tragic for the interests of this country, is the interest rate at which we take, at which we sell, at which we sell, or our obligation that will come about in terms of the settlement of interest and other donations, by selling these securities of value. She's already moving over 15%. Countries in the region – Croatia, Romania and Bulgaria sell their charters of value on far more favourable terms: by 2.3 and 5%. We have 15%, and this rate is likely to be far higher. It's interesting, and I need to get this information out on how much a deficit has been in the last few years in the Republic of Serbia. In 2007 – 13.5 billion, 2008 – 70 billion, 2009 – over 100 billion, 2010, somewhere, according to the final account of over 100 billion, and the 2011 plan is around 120 billion. Where's the end? From what means will this society meet its obligations? I'd say like this, if this government had successfully owed our children and grandchildren, now, these are now the credit lines where we owe our grandchildren. When are these funds coming back? What battery? It's tragic, it's most tragic. It is even more tragic if I present information about where there is still a deficit in our system – both in current payments and in foreign trade. The deficit, loss of economy in 2008, was 50 billion, and in 2009, it was 95 billion. This year will most likely be about 150 billion dinars, etc. We don't have healthy tissue. We're over-indebted. We've been brought into the position of slavery. From who? Of those who place these funds on us. And who's to blame for this? Current power. Instead of talking here about credit lines for the development of agriculture. Why agriculture? Because agriculture in the last seven, eight years has achieved a surplus in foreign trade, with very small and minor funds: from 150m euros to 200m euros and some million euros. It's tragic that we don't invest in what brings us a terrible profit and surplus. The 2010 surplus is two billion and 200 million dollars. Only 150m euros were invested. And why didn't we invest more? The current hair cannot find the means to help agriculture. Well, the first assignment is to invest in agriculture. That's what 500,000 people live out of. But it's investing, and I have that data, in non-profit companies. It's invested in restructuring failed businesses. That restructuring has been going on for years. The outflow of funds in that direction is incredibly large. And no one's making projects about it, about the cost of those investments. I've got the data I've prepared here for agricultural financing in just the last four years. A total of 650m euros will be allocated for agriculture. And the surplus has been from the sale of agricultural products in the last two years of two billion and 300m euros; therefore, only 650m have been invested. Well, why didn't we invest two billion so we have 10 billion exports, so we have a surplus and we cover all of these holes that we have in the budget? Mrs Dragutinović, do you have the receipts? Do you have an analysis of the cost of investment in the economy? Here is the data: through subsidies from the economy, what went away, I am not talking through the Development Fund, through various other ministries, but only what went through the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, in 2008 – 550m euros. I think we can say no to what the ministry's spending is, so let's cut by, one, 20 or 30 million, but I took those total figures for the Ministry: 500 million in 2009, in 2010 – 400 million euros, in 2011, about 400 million euros. Thus, a billion and 850 million were given to the economy. So, what do we have in the economy? We have 400,000 people who have lost their jobs in the period from 2008 to today. It's tragic that the IMF comes to us with such data that no one disputes. And what does our official data tell us? All several thousand, when compared to what is in the National Employment Service, in 2008, it is, somewhere, 160 and some thousands on the record, and the current current data is about 730 thousand, so about 30,000 – the IMF says it is about 400,000. Well, who's lying now? If these IMF data are incorrect, then the IMF should be "persona non grata", it should be expelled from Serbia. If your data is correct, then you need to run an analysis and explain to the citizens how you're going to get past that situation. Go back to the farm. For these four years, 650 million will be invested for agriculture, and three times more – a billion and 850 million for the economy. We've seen the effects of investment in agriculture, and we know what the effects are, 400,000 people aren't in the economy today, in those four years. We have a huge indifference of the economy. It's still headlessly invested in the economy, instead of making a real program, to make a measure program and get to the right state and solve all of these problems that we have. Finally, let me just say about the tragic data, because when we add deficits to the budget since you've been in power for almost three years, we have a total deficit of over four billion euros. With four billion euros we could get, I made an effort, so with some data, the tolls say -- two million euros can be made a mile, so for four billion we could make 2,000 kilometers of highway, just to Moscow. So, only with the deficit. I'm not talking about other deficits, I'm not talking about other losses in the area of economy and totality in the Republic of Serbia. With four billion euros, we could make a water line to Tokyo, we could make a sewer to Paris. Well, you see, just through the deficit. Where did that end? It ended up in public consumption. It ended up where it couldn't end. It has to end in primary production. It must end where it is necessary, where it will fertilize and where it will return to the budget. Unfortunately, you don't do that. It's a tragic situation. It's a tragic situation where here, in front of the MPs, you say to the public that the budget deficit can only be solved in two ways: borrowing and selling. The SRS is absolutely against you selling anything. The most profitable firm, Telecom, you'll sell in a few months. So, what are you going to do with those funds? Once again in public spending, in pre-election activities and the return of those loans that you must repay, because those who have given you these funds are looking for those funds and you are likely to sell, it is the former Minister of Economy and Regional Development and stressed that loans must be returned. That's how you're gonna spread this. There's only a few companies left. I have something else to say, what the government is doing in practice, is that no privatisation strategy has been made, that since 2001, when the law was passed, we entered this dubious privatisation, donated, handed over, etc. the means, instead of using the provisions of the Privatisation Act. It took 50% to go into development and development funds, as well as to restructure very important systems from which we will benefit and which will bring profit, which will be transferred to the budget, we have transferred these funds to the budget, we have created preconditions for the government to work, to be used for various marifetteluke, and we have not invested in employment. There are several major public enterprises and small utility companies left in the sales system. What is the practice of small utility companies? The SRS has said that at least a dozen times in the last three, four years. Don't worry. You've beheaded a local self-government that can no longer take care of the communal economy. So, what happens now? Local self-government is now looking for solutions. One solution is the sale of utility companies. Based on what law?- I'm sorry. The government has formed one committee to develop a strategy. No strategy. We will again come to a law that will allow for the sale of municipal systems, we will be headless and very few systems that operate, and these utility companies are now over-indebted, local self-governments cannot be serviced because of huge social problems in local self-governments, they cannot finance or refinance difficult conditions in these public enterprises, and then there is self-will: sales, concessions of some municipal systems, etc. This has to be prevented. Mrs Dragutinović, you have a very responsible ministry. You're funding part of this system of local self-government, etc. You know in 2010 that over 30 billion were denied by local self-government. That's why the highest responsibility is borne by your ministry. But it's not the first year, it's the third year. It was denied by local self-government 66 billion in the period of government and government rule. We're running out of village, we're running out of jobs, we're running out of utility companies, just because you're not working, you're not saving, and you're not creating conditions to hire people! Here's more employment data. Has anyone made an analysis of the resolution ministries on how to stop this solar employment? In 1989 there were two million and 650 thousand, now it's official according to this data, whether they're true or not, we have some data, a million and 800 thousand employees. The question is, until the IMF brings it to us, we don't know that, because it's all getting frisky. According to that data, 850,000 people have lost their jobs in the last 20 years. Where's the end? How do you stop it? Now, you have to bring those answers to us here, not the law on borrowing, but the law to stop these negative flows, with the right analysis of the situation and the programme of measures to resuscitate everything that exists. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50201	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50202	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were all looking forward to the Assembly starting to work, to have something happen, of course, positively. These days, we had a very energetic performance of the prime minister, who was categorical that he wanted to cut into the root of some problems and move on to solving. But today, at this first session, the first and second part of the agenda, as our people say, 'At first, a man', a loan, a duty, we move again, and as our people said, 'At dawn, the day is known', so there is nothing in this year, everything is empty. The other day, on a fun show with Ivan Ivanovic, I was looking at Minister Sutanovac, so when he explained that SDPR works, then exports, so it's a record, so it's never in history was such an export, such a job, such a business, billions and 200 million, and what, now, SDPR asks us to grant a loan?- I'm sorry. I don't understand what this is about. When you look at, gentlemen, the MPs, the exposés of the president of the state, who in the election campaign when this parliament formed, held his letter as head of state and said – 200 thousand new jobs, in 2010 200 thousand cars in "Fiat" exports, 200,000 cars outside, entering the EU in 2013, it was as agreed, etc., four highways at once, I am surprised to see this "Pojate-Preljina", ma, "come on, let's build, the head of state stands at the head of the Infrastructure Committee, i.e. the Council, and so, corridors, all will be finished in 2012, and, we look forward – the people, of course, support it all. And here, however, is the result of today – 400,000 cancellations. Every day 550 Serbian citizens lose their jobs. That was published the other day. Indebtion, every minute of 3.5 thousand euros, and those thousands of euros promised, no talking, no one even mentions it anymore. There's not one out of four highways. From the corridors, something started, stuck there in Vojvodina, and none of it happened. The European Union – moved five years, realistic in 2018, but will be, around 2020. Now, it's important, the questionnaires were filling in, it's an important thing, and it's important that we finish the questionnaires. And "Fiat" doesn't work at all! The Italians came and ran tests and, instead of 2010 – 200,000 cars, how we invested funds from the budget and financed it all, whether Mr. Stevanovic here, I don't see him, he said it, and another minister, not to mention his name, exports, "Fiyat", the future of Serbia. Now, there's no Fiat. And I, for God's sake, hear "Fiat" is pulling out of Serbia, that's almost for sure, and that's why "the pumpkin broke." Well, that's why I suggested that one committee be created. We've got the governor, he's gone, he hasn't said goodbye, he hasn't even said hello, and now he wants the ministers, we're just saying, one by one, they're leaving. Of course, this parliament is starting to be some safe house, I see your point is to make some safe houses. And now this is some "secure house" that all those who do nothing, who remove someone from power, will come to parliament. Gentlemen, I expect the Minister's office to show some seriousness, because running a country's finances is an extremely responsible job. I'm asking you openly, what about the Fiat? Ma'am, we've invested millions of euros in Kragujevac's infrastructure into their Fiat projects, donated land, built, did what they wanted, disarmed, cut machines, cut the line -- what is it now? Who here will inform us of the results of everything that's been going on?- I'm sorry. Now, there's one problem, there's an Indus, here, burn us for some big money, Magnochrom, there, you know, ma'am, it's all gone from the MOBTEL, it all came off instead of these highways, and then there's some from Jure. Well, we have a minister who took pictures with them, led them, so they took power from us in Raca, so they say, "What a New Serbia, you all have to be here in some regions to work!" And we give 10,000 euros per worker, we get rid of the bag, we just rip, well, there's no "Jure" anywhere. Where's "Jura," Mrs. Dragutinovic?- I'm sorry. Today all the workers are sitting in the municipality waiting for Juru, she's gone! "Jura" was supposed to be in Nis, and in Kragujevac, and where you found some "Jura," what you were doing with that "Jura," but "Jure" is gone, nobody mentions. Now, we want to see what's going on with "Jura," what about "Fiyat", what about the highways, what about the money from MOBTEL, the "Zagrebačka Banka", when she offered -- how could the defender give up so much capital and transfer it to private accounts, and it's encrypted, whose codes and a number of other problems?- I'm sorry. What about Nuba Invest, where the Nuba Invest here, how about three thousand euros, no director, no tender, no job?- I'm sorry. These are all very interesting questions. What about huge investments, what about this old mountain, billions, then Goliath, then Divcibar, then ski resorts, so the whole world comes skiing into Serbia?- I'm sorry. Now there are two-foot nettles there, Madam Minister, no one even mentions it anymore. There remained some of the most modern equipment, brought from the world, mounted and forgotten. Now, we'd like to look at it a little bit, see what happened – where this Serbia is going and what you're in charge of. What are you spending that money on?- I'm sorry. Are we to cover from this loan to a minister who makes a website, a gallant man, that -- here's 25 thousand euros to make you a website. My people, are you normal? Is there anyone out there taking care of you? I really expect the president of the state to come here once and ask him, Mr. President, what's going on?- I'm sorry. A man comes and gives 25,000 euros for one site! That's what people do now for 300 or 400 euros, you can do it all you want now. So, who are they that did it?- I'm sorry. But I can see there's nothing. Did you do a great job in agriculture - export corn and wheat at 12 dinars, and now our farmer pays 26 dinars, ma'am! Do you know since it's a kilo of bread now? One kilo is 40 dinars. Did you know that the concentrate with 22 dinars went to 42 dinars?- I'm sorry. Now, do you know that agricultural oil, with 76 dinars, I remember perfectly when I was in the government, is now up to 110 dinars. I understand that you've taken this loan for agriculture, so there's a set coming in so we can invest, so by winter we'll get it back, we'll fertilize, for subsidies, more sowing, more to be done. And you take for these over there what was debauchery, what was scattered, spent and so on, and it all ended. In this country, everyone strikes. Whoever you ask what you're doing, they all say we're going on a strike. Someone now, there's a van transport, taxi drivers, enlighteners, health workers, well, and the police. And you're all happy in the government and you're smiling, I see, you look beautiful, you're all full of some positive energy, you've all been skiing, you've been resting, here, you're going on vacations, winters, you don't ask how much it costs. I see, the Secretary of Defense runs the world, so we have a ski minister, he likes to ski, I guess, under the old days, something worked for him, doesn't get off the mountain. Of course, it should all be paid off – well, now we're going to get a loan, we're going to pay for it, we're going to end it. So, come to your senses and take this country, at least, as properly as you need to do it or call the election. I can see that you're all powerless, that you've all surrendered, that you've run away, that you've run, that no one can find you. You're looking for someone in the government, no one else, though, I wasn't looking for you, but the ones I'm looking for are gone. And those officers say, "We have no idea." Where are you? We have no idea! What's the matter? The choices are the only cure. You guys can't use another drug. We gave you to practice, here, for almost three years, three construction seasons – 5,000 Dulic apartments make every year and just to start. Now, he said, in April, it finally starts 5,000, when he found "Monter," she was kind of blocked, so he couldn't give her the job, I guess it was waiting for her, but neither of which, roughly, would be anything. Therefore, elections are the only way. Here, today I experienced a pleasant news: I hear in Kursumlia, there, strikes the municipality, replaces Markovic the president of the municipality – he is a good man, though, and he is our party, the people loves him, the people will not support change, and Markovic insists on changing him. And, today, I see, it's dark with the Democrats, and you've come to us and come and say, "Let's fortify it, when the people will, and it's an honor to you!" And, I want to welcome the Democrats from Kursumlia who came where they belong and said, "You can't play with the people like that anymore, let Markovic talk and so on, make a strong majority..." [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50203	People's MP, with full understanding of your enthusiasm on the ground in Kursumlia or anywhere, I ask you, however, to speak of a subject which is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50204	All right, all right. However, Mrs Dragutinovic, you know well, you have advocated to shut down the concession that was supposed to end the highway to Požega in 2012. You said what it is, what concession we have, we have money – so the chief runs the Infrastructure Council, we ourselves, what concessionaries, that's the real thing, we have our own money, our own resources. It's not gonna happen, ma'am! You haven't made a single meter! It was said that you would end it alone, shut it down, and let it go to your soul. We'll see what's gonna happen. Therefore, I advise you, honestly, don't get confused anymore. You can see that it's not working, you can see that many have raised their hands and left that government. Of course, you're here to realize they're gone. And they're right to criticize you, and the government is right to throw them out. You're all right, but go as fast as you can! The only way to get rid of this is to get rid of it. I think you'll finally come to your senses and expect when it's a little bit warm, when this people squeeze you and press you, that you'll accept it. So, Mrs Dragutinović, don't get too defensive, see for yourself that you're powerless, you can't do that, it has to be done more seriously, more studioly. The country's macroeconomic policy to organise and lead is an extremely complex issue. And, of course, when you go to Ivan Ivanovic, you can talk whatever you want, they put up with everything on that show, and that you're good, that you're successful and everything else. So, this poll of yours you're doing, that's what you're doing for you. What "Cesid" pushes you out of the blue... (President: National MP, I warned you that, with full understanding of the breadth of the topic... )......................................................................................................... It doesn't work, here, I'm done, I'm done... (President:...) When the agenda theme exists, however... )......................................................................................................... So don't put us in charge any more, go as fast as you can! (President: Please listen to me, MP. ) Thank you, Mrs. Komic, you've been very kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50205	I ask you, People's Parliament, Miroslav Markic, to welcome, in good health in office until the end. Yes, however, disrespect for the Rules of Procedure is inadmissible. Does anyone else who has not exercised their right under Article 96(4) want a word from the president, the authorised representatives or MPs who are entitled to five minutes? (No) Does the Minister want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50206	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Members of the People, I will try to remain clear and look back at some or all of your criticisms. In the presentations of the various MPs, I have noticed a certain regret about the past and the old days, closer or further. First I'll start with that regret for days to come. So, some MPs regretted the military industry as it used to be, before 2000, and disputed the existence of a public company SDPR "Jugoimport". Unfortunately for all of us, but that's a fact, our military industry has been destroyed by NATO bombing. From the destroyed military industry, the renowned economic magazine De Economist says the Serbian military industry is on the rise. And that kind of Serbian military industry on the rise compares it to our tennis players or raspberries and other agricultural products. I'd like to remind you that in early 2000, after NATO bombing, the military industry only exported $20 million and received subsidies after being destroyed. Today, in 2010, the military industry exports $270 million and does not receive any subsidies. Otherwise, those who have disputed the existence of this public enterprise, Jugoimport, I would like to inform them that it has existed in this or that form since 1948, when the conflict between Stalin and Tito arose. He was then a company, and then in 1972, the Public Enterprise became a Directorate under the Federal Secretariat for People's Defence, and then in 1992 it became a public enterprise again and until today. He's in import and exporting military equipment, and he's doing very well. Someone was saying it was a monopoly, and I'd like to say that, if someone is not familiar with it, there are registered 100 military equipment dealers, that the public company SDPR "Jugoimport" exports about 50-55%, and that the rest are directly exporting companies from the military industry. 98% of military industry production is exported. Since I've been Minister of Finance, I don't know about earlier, this public firm has been operating with profits. It pays a regular 50% profit in the budget. The other 50% was used to build a blacksmithy in Valjevo. I'm sorry there's no letter from Valev. I think that blacksmithy works pretty well to support the production of planes in Pancheva. SDPR doesn't need credit, SDPR doesn't take credit, SDPR takes an advance for production from the Algerian side and just in case it doesn't deliver what's agreed, and that never happened so far, that advance has to come back. There were MPs who spoke about that I spoke inappropriately when considering, adopting or discussing the 2011 Budget Law. It was not explained what was inappropriate in my speech, but I realized from the discussion that it was a game of numbers. I don't usually play with numbers, and since I had a speech on my part that I prepared in defending the 2011 budget, I know exactly what I said. So, the moment I defended the budget and discussed it with you, I had information about the public debt that was concluded at the end of September 2010. The debt was 11.6 billion euros at that time and was 38.8% of GDP at that time. I never hide behind a methodology, I always speak clearly. I say that there is a sovereign debt and public debt, as well as a public sector debt, and that it cannot be the same in any country, nor in Serbia. What the Ministry of Finance shows as a public debt is exactly what was defined by the Public Debt Act, which also adopted this high home. So I always go out with the exact data, I use the standard, not to say the textbook methodology, but I also know that as economic theories change, new ones replace the old ones, so methodologies are the subject of change. So, on 31 December 2010, the public debt was 12.1 billion euros and that is 41.5% of the social product. In January of the month, public debt as a percentage of participation in the social product was reduced, not because we overestimated the social product, but because we are all witnesses of the slow-down of the local currency. It is known, and this can be easily checked, that 1% of the depression affects the increase in public debt measured as a percentage of participation in the social product by one percentage point, i.e. similar to that of the apression, decreases the participation of public debt in the social product. There were MPs who wanted to know if we had a government or not. I've always believed in a system that can function regardless of personal changes. Usually, as someone who is an economist by profession, I use indicators to assess whether it's political or other instability on the pier. I could remind you that usually when political instability occurred, the foreign exchange market reacted first. This time I didn't notice it and let that be my answer. Speaking of which, of course, in a negative context, what the government's contribution is, MPs of a parliamentary group said that this is a public debt growth of four billion euros and that this government spends much more than it has. I could have expected that from the MPs of another parliamentary group. At least I could expect from a representative of the government's party, who also spent more than she had and, behold, the number of coincidences, which is 4 billion euros, as spent on privatisation revenues. So it's been spent, too, more than it's got, but at the expense of social wealth. The budget is not balanced if the privatisation income is spent. Does this government and I as ministers have any results? The favorite theme is to compare the crisis situation with the situation when Serbia also had a dynamic economic growth. We could set things up like this. Let's compare what happened and what it looks like in 2010 compared to, for example, 2008. The social product is approximately the same, and the external imbalance is with 18% of the social product, so the deficit of 18% of the social product is now less than 7% of the social product. We're witnessing treatment now. Unfortunately, treatment is a harder and longer process. I know it always seems like everything that's done is a little bit, but I'd still like to remind you of a few things that are undeniable. First, that the participation of public spending is less than it was, although interest expenditures are bigger than they were, but, again, because one source of funding was replaced by another. A new Pension invalidity Insurance Act has been adopted and we could discuss whether it represents a big or smaller step in the right direction. Undisputed. It may be smaller than I originally wanted, but it's definitely the law that makes a big change, and that change is that it's always saved at indexation costs. Also, the Budgetary System Act has been passed, with fiscal responsibility provisions, which obliges us to reduce the fiscal deficit, which means public spending. The IMF says a lot of things and says a lot of good things. The MPs deliberately shut up those good ones and always focus on some bad messages. What good is it that you can see in the IMF's letter of intent, what did he say about the government's economic policy? He said the government is running a responsible fiscal policy, he said the state has changed the growth model and it is undeniable. I agree that it's possible for the IMF, and anyone, and we in the government to make a mistake. Mistakes are an integral part of the life and work of each of us, but I noticed that occasionally there are some words that are used as mantra without serious economic analysis. One of those famous words or numbers that I have often heard from you, dear MPs, is that public procurement can save a billion euros and that this wasteful government spends a billion euros on public procurement, about 100 billion dinars, and, well, we wouldn't actually have a deficit that there's some responsible government. I have analyzed, you know that there are public procurement administrations and there are serious data on how many procurements of the Republic of Serbia, which means the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Health Insurance Fund, all public enterprises. Gentlemen, all this together is a billion euros. So we didn't buy anything, if the military and the police were fuel-free, we couldn't cover this deficit. That's one number that's being used, and serious analysis and data says that's not exactly the case. What you used to say today is the 400,000 people who were less than they were in 2008. I trust official statistics and I'm doing it by profession, but I always like to compare some numbers to a healthy logic. You and I know very well that in this country it works one way or another about two million people. We'll say roughly, half a million people work in the public sector and they're not fired. So there are still a million and a half people left. Does anyone want to tell me that 400,000 people were fired one way or another and that the social product remained about the same? So, I always call for a serious economic analysis to stand behind the number that man says. The guarantee received from the World Bank was far more criticised than the guarantee given to the Serbian bank. The guarantee received from the World Bank was not obtained to improve or improve the business climate, but was just received because an international financial institution, such as the World Bank, said the government had even improved the business climate. The MPs asked me, especially the MPs of a group of MPs, for what the $400m loan would be spent on. You know what, you and I both know well, and the students of the economy, and rich and Serbian citizens, that money can only be spent for those purposes provided for by the Budget Law and for nothing more. We adopted the Budget Law, which covers both salaries and pensions, and social contributions, as well as transfers to local self-government, as well as gas for the military and police and their equipment, as well as payments to certain loans, only for those purposes provided for by the Budget Law. When the money comes, whether you collected it with taxes or came as a privatisation income, or the state took credit or broadcast actions, that money comes into something called the'single Treasury account'. And it's all paid off from one place. Now you say to me, "What is it for?" Just for what the Budget Act provides. I know that none of you, and God damn it, I didn't like that we had to pay for that famous Satellite. That's right, that's about 2.8 billion dinars. We, dear MPs, lost the dispute and we had to pay it as a state. However, I would remind you that this country is paying now, and for the past seven, eight years, an old debt based on old foreign savings, which is also spent somewhere, that is 4 billion euros (again this number 4). Compare those 4 billion euros with these 2.7 billion dinars. A much higher price is paid by present generations for some of the debts that have been incurred long ago. What is the purpose of the Public Debt Administration – to react to changes in the market. The Public Debt Administration must be flexible and see whether interest rates decrease or increase on the market. And, nothing is usual for us to be in debt, even if we don't have a deficit, if the conditions we have are better than the conditions under which we used to be in debt. In this way, the serious state saves on expenditures called interest. I could believe it all, but that Greece was listed as a good example of saving, it's really, really hard to accept, and I'm particularly commenting. I would not like to compare myself with Greece, and I will say – far either, but indeed, the participation of public debt of over 200%, the total debt of 400% of the social product, completely bad, not to say falsely showing public finances, a deficit of 10% of the social product, despite these austerity measures, and developed, wonderful, Greece cannot be in charge of the conditions under which Serbia is in charge, still far from the EU. The resignation is a very popular word these days. Whatever it is, you can see one can replace another. As someone who's an advocate of a flexible labour market, at least I can be against it, as someone who's a teacher in his personal life and who's an appraiser, I don't mind being evaluated. I consider the changes an integral part of my life, and I grew up with a sentence that failures are in both private and business life, and also in the state's actions, the pillars of success. Did I do something, and if I did, I left and what am I going to tell my students when I get back tomorrow? I'll tell them one thing, they know it, I don't have to tell them it's the fact that there's no country in the world, and especially there's no country in Europe that led a restrictive fiscal policy at the time of the economic crisis. All led by expansion and all by deficit or greater public spending wanted to neutralize the fall of private and to influence the mitigation of economic growth. Again, on the other hand, I've always said that for myself, and I'm saying now, no matter what I'm a minister at a time when Serbia achieves a deficit, that I'm someone who really is a representative of fiscal fundamentalism. But the economy, unlike that, in the economy, you can't do experiments, as you can in other sciences. Now I can't say what would have happened if the deficit had been smaller or if it hadn't been at all. Also, while I'm a minister, an "exit strategy" from the so-called "exit strategy" was created. Expansive fiscal policies, fiscal responsibility provisions of the Budgetary System Act. Also, I struggled to form a Fiscal Council, not because I think there are few different agencies and independent institutions, but because I deeply believe that only professional fiscal advice should and can affect the creation of public opinion on what fiscal policy really is. This means that public opinion is created by arguments, serious economic analyses, which will not be based on someone telling me that theory is one thing, and practice is another, and that evaluations without serious economic analysis will be a long time ago. Lazar Pachu, once again, was a minister who had budgets with huge deficits. Lazar Pachu was a minister who owed himself and created a new debt to pay back the old one, neither because of the deficit, nor because of the borrowing, no one ever said that he was bad or that he was a wastelander. And I hope my students don't think that for me either. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-02-21-0.u50207	I'm concluding a principled search and this is what we're finishing today's work on. We'll continue work tomorrow, February 22nd, 10:00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 76 MPs attend the session. To determine precisely the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall and that there is a condition necessary for work under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. that more than 84 MPs are present. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). A Rules of Procedure which states in its first position that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and that he needs these explanations and notifications to carry out the function of the MP. Exceptionally, the President, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, this right under Article 1 may also be exercised at the session of the National Assembly, orally, in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has been informed that for the DSS parliamentary group, the authorised representative will be MP Zoran Shami, MP Riza Halimi for the SRS parliamentary group, MP Nemanja Sarovic, and MP Bojan Djuric for the LDP group. If any of the other parliamentary groups decide to have a group representative participate in the work, on the basis of Article 286, please provide us with a notice. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
