ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs whose identification cards are in the electronic system of parliamentary voting units, please place your cards in the system. I find that 85 MPs are present in the electronic system with their identification cards and that another number of MPs are present in the hall, so that there are the Rules of Procedure established conditions for the start of the session of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in paragraph 1, that the MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to achieve the duties of a member of the national parliament. Exceptionally, the President, i.e. the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may exercise the right under Article 1 at the session of the National Assembly, orally in one address, for up to five minutes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their right to Article 286? MP Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65191	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the entire public has already been aware that the application of the Brussels Free Movement Agreement, reached in the talks between Serbia and Kosovo delegations, began yesterday. However, rather than the joy of implementing this very important agreement, it was quite unexpected that there was great disappointment and indignation over the astronomically high tariffs of car insurance and other vehicles, which are 60 to 90 times higher than the cost of green cardboard, which must be paid by vehicle owners with KS license plates to enter Serbia's territory. Under the reciprocal measures taken by competent Kosovo institutions and vehicle owners from Serbia's territory, they must pay 60 euros for a 15-day time period for insurance policy. Thus far, administrative obstacles to entering a vehicle with Kosovo's registration plates on Serbia's territory have been turned into insurmountable financial obstacles. However, it is even more incomparable that so far the freedom of movement from Serbia towards Kosovo is drastically reduced. So, from preventing one-way movement, a total block is now being introduced. Of course, these unreasonable measures affect all citizens, but when it is known that these measures are not taken to cross from Leposavic and Zubi's stream, then it is clear that these illogical anti-civilisation measures are most affected by the Albanians of Presevo Valley, because they, in addition to family ties, have quite a number of employees in Kosovo, which I am talking about all the time, that they cannot be employed in the more developed state in which they live, so they must go further, not only in Europe, but also in Kosovo. An even greater number of Albanians from this area who were forced to leave their homes in the land's security zone immediately after the Kumanovo Agreement and to settle temporarily in Gjilane, Pristina or other Kosovo centres. So I ask the government what will be very urgent to address this alarming and highly sensitive problem? If this situation lasts longer, the government will be responsible for destabilising the situation in this area, as the social situation is also catastrophic. And this is all we needed, to have astronomical prices with these insurance policies and to prevent total freedom of movement in the 21st century, which we talk about all the time and what we stand for all the time. So I draw attention that the situation is urgent and that solutions must be found very quickly. We can't be so experimental about this area and that part of the population that has the most difficult and most sensitive problems in life anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65192	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65193	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question that primarily concerns the leadership of this assembly, that is, the president of this House. I'm not sure that you, Mrs. Comic, can give me an answer right now, but I certainly believe that during the day, the President of Parliament will be able to answer the question I'm going to ask here. The issue also concerns the heads of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups, particularly Mrs. Kolundji, who is the head of the parliamentary group of the largest ruling parties in this parliament. Last night at the end of the debate, when the Prime Minister looked back and answered just some of the questions he was asked here during the day and during the principle debate on the budget, he said one really amazing thing. In fact, commenting on the obvious fact that the final account of the Republic of Serbia has not been adopted in this Parliament for eight or nine years, the prime minister has been able to notice, as he alone can, that he does not understand the problem at all and he said, I will quote him: "We have been delivering final accounts to parliament in the last five or six years. It hasn't been delivered in the past year, but it's been adopted in the government and it needs to be forwarded. The final accounts are here, and you have the auditor, his opinion, so they may not have been able to attend the plenary debate, but they certainly do exist. I believe that any MP who wishes can take them out of the archives and look at them." I think that this Prime Minister has been directly accused by this parliament, in fact by his leadership, the speaker of parliament and political leadership, the heads of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups that they don't really want to put the final accounts on the agenda, that for years you've been hiding from the public how budgets are spent and the prime minister has simply washed his hands of his ruling majority, of his ruling coalition and of this parliament, before which every year he comes to ask permission to spend budget funds. There are 250 MPs sitting here, and I think last night, the prime minister was due to receive a warning because of the message to MPs to dig through the archives and look for the country's final accounts for the five-year-olds. In doing so, it is not true that these five or six years have been delivered final accounts because it is now the end of December 2011 and we do not have a final account for 2010. Every year, the auditor put serious objections to final accounts and spending money, some misdemeanor proceedings were conducted, ministers, including some ministers from Cvetkovic's government were convicted in court. Finally, there is also the one-year-old government of your co-habitation with Vojislav Kostunica when he may have been even more responsible, Mirko Cvetkovic, because he was also the finance minister in the government. Simply, I think today we need to get an answer as to why the final accounts are hidden from Serbian citizens for five years? We don't know who to trust, whether the Prime Minister, the leadership of this House, who has assured us for months that the Committee has not been put on the agenda to discuss the law on the final account, or perhaps the chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr Krasic, who claims that at every stage and every time has done everything the Rules of Procedure and the Law expect. I think it's important that we get answers to these questions right now. The prime minister can't finish his exposure by lighting all of us here and saying that we are hiding the final accounts from Serbian citizens and that he has done everything. I ask you today to give us an answer which is why no final account laws have been considered, and will we perhaps get that in the coming days, the coming weeks, and finally get a chance to consider it in front of the citizens of Serbia? I think that's the amount of a few-tenths of a billion in the past few years and it doesn't matter, even when that's how the Prime Minister makes the problem here. I don't think we can keep our mouths shut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65194	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65195	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of our four-year mandate and work, both these National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling coalition. Given the time I have, I will briefly remind you of the pre-election promises of this ruling coalition and bring about the effects of that promise. In a pre-election campaign for objectives and priorities, the ruling coalition had some 1,000 euros in action for citizens of the Republic of Serbia from public enterprises, 200,000 new jobs, a free fight against corruption and organised crime, EU candidate status and preservation of Kosovo as part of the Republic of Serbia, etc. At the beginning of your term, when it comes to KIM, you have made a political projection to recognise Kosovo's independence in exchange for candidacy and EU accession. That's what you've been committed to, and that's the only thing you've ever been consistent with. By accepting Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue on good neighbourly relations, you have capitulated and definitely recognised Kosovo's independence in the job. You have acknowledged it, and now you represent it as an interest for both of us in KIM and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You say it is in the interest of Serbs living in the north of KIM and in general to the KIM and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are deeply convinced those living in Kosovo that there is no interest in the negotiations for Serbs living in KIM, and if it is the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then I would draw attention to you first to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and then to recognise independent Kosovo. You have to take this into account, and this way, beyond the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, what you did with Kosovo and Metohija is capitulation. Now, the Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija are pushing us and putting pressure on us, you're blackmailing us to accept what is unacceptable to us. It is unacceptable for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to lose even one attribute of their statehood, to gain independence from Serbia, and for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to gain all attributes of Cypriot statehood from Serbia. So you gentlemen, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija left without any attribute of the statehood of the Republic of Serbia. You, in your story, in your justifications that you have not recognised independent Kosovo, insults common sense and citizens, Serbs from Kosovo and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia - do you have any intention, and if you do, when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia stop pushing and blackmail we accept life in an independent state of Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65196	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, we are at the end of this government's term of office, fortunately Serbian citizens. We are ahead of the elections and we are ahead of the adoption of the budget that we received at such a short period of time that it is almost offensive to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday, in an unsettling debate and attempts to defend such a budget, in which there is obviously a lot of what is unclear and what not even Mr. Prime Minister, or Finance Minister, has failed to defend himself against this parliament and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We've also heard one of the flossules that really intersects with common sense, and I'm going to paraphrase that it's better to have a budget deficit of 140 billion than 40, almost healthy, or translated folkly, that would mean that it's better to be in debt of 140 billion than 40. I don't think anyone in Serbia can accept that, but what's there is. However, there are many issues in that budget, many issues, many issues, many things that are not clear and that need to be clarified in a transparent manner for the citizens of Serbia. However, our parliamentary group has received numerous suggestions to ask one question from the finance minister and the economy and regional development minister. I think both ministries are competent enough to respond to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In many companies, those citizens who still work somewhere in many institutions, in many state institutions, have been allocated funds from the budget, paid funds from the budget in terms of technological surpluses. General practice in Serbia has shown that those who take funds from the budget on that basis return, or to the same company, to the same institution, to the same institution under the contract on work, or to another public enterprise. We all know what that means. All citizens of the Republic of Serbia know what kind of abuse it is, who should be serious about it today when the number of unemployed is increasing, is also dramatically increasing the number of people's kitchen users, which is in no way an honor to us, which is our greatest shame that this government needs to deal with seriously. So we have a clear question -- how much budget funding has been allocated, paid on the basis of technological surpluses across Serbia? What kind of control has been carried out regarding the employment of those who took the funds? Who will be responsible when it is found that there has been a huge abuse in the matter of the payment of a technological surplus in Serbia? So there are clear companies, names, last names of people who have abused these assets. Please answer this question very urgently, not after the election, before the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65198	Just to specify the stenogram for the sake of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, the two ministries are referred the question? Yeah. ) Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, during a session where people's MPs receive the word on the basis of Article 286. Allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf of the students and professors of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade who are currently following a part of our today's session from the UK Gallery. Attending are: Radibratović Adjana, Djordjevic Aleksandar, Rakićić Aleksandar, Radojković Milena, Ristić Natasa, Trbojević Natasa, Lazić Ana, Kolja Dejan, Vesenović Jovana, Bauk Marina, Jović Srdjan, Kalicanin Jelena, Maksimović Lara, Paunović Vesna, Tesanović Marko, Vučetić Željko, Marina Matejić Sandra, Vidaković Dusan, Trifković Natasa, Ćužović Dusan, Ljubić Mihailo, Jović Bojan, Đurović Milica, Vučetić Željko, Marina Matejić, Ilja, Dračaša Sava Sava, Radenović Nikola, Radulović Lidija, Milivojevic Tina, Momović, Momčović Valentina, Milivić Nikola, Rakić Nata, Rakić Natić, Nedić, Nedelić, Nedelić, Ivana Žović, Kojić, Kojić, Kojić, Koštić, Kojić. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65199	Thank you. Yesterday you delivered us nine other laws unplanned with the budget. Believe it or not, I missed an amendment to the government in which the tax procedure and the tax administration are delayed by the deadline in which the transfer of tax and tax control is carried out to the bank and instead of "January 1st" that word is replaced by "July". I therefore ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to Mr Cvetkovic – is it possible that this government has dared to submit amendments and amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration with the budget for the following year where it imposes on banks an illegal obligation to pay earnings, i.e. compensation through the amendment of Articles 30 and 49 even to Article 48 and provides criminal provisions if the bank makes payments without unpaid taxes and contributions. If anyone is known as someone who does not want to protect banks that are only exempt from that tax on financial services that are allowed to lower the profit tax, which do not pay any compensation to the State for the security they have in the system of operations through the protection of targeted inflation. The question is how successful it is, and that there are many systems, that these organisations are not thus forced and exempt from tax obligations, but that we ask them to participate and return to this country for business security through normal tax payments does not mean that the banks of the state can transfer their part of the business. I really wonder if it was enough for the government to have two newspaper texts published and not to hear all the objections of the professional public. As early as 2006, the Law on Income Tax was a fully regulated procedure to control the payment of contributions from employers' registers through criminal provisions and all other details concerning this job. I therefore ask a concrete question to the Minister of Finance – how much has the Tax Administration respected, from 2006 until today, Article 108b of the Income Tax Act, i.e. how up-to-date is the Register of Employers, and does it run at all? We know that over 90% of the employers were registered in that register and there was a big hack on them to apply. Given that the Tax Administration has not done what its job has been awarded by law, I ask the following – can this control be cheaper and more effective for taxpayers if you transfer it to the bank, which it experiences with an exceptional pre-election gaffe, to tell you the truth. The proposal for bank payment control has two major problems. If anyone is allowed to act on the accounts of clients of legal entities, check whether they are from whom and how much money they receive, and are not under criminal investigation, they are ordinary citizens of certain companies guaranteed by the Constitution for protection of privacy. I ask the Minister of Finance, Mr Cvetkovic, Mr. Prime Minister, do the IRS have an answer to this question, or should people be prevented from speaking to the Data Protection Commissioner? Why is the Serbian government not doing the job for which the citizens are paying it, but trying to transfer the job completely to banks, and by setting up for us MPs such a bill that we have not even been able to look at, let alone react to it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65200	The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65201	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am asking Mr Mirk Cvetkovic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I believe he is still in office, related to the interpretation of the Serbian Radical Party that we submitted in July this year. It has been five months, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not responded to our interpretation. I ask the prime minister - has he heard of a book called the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Did he read article 129 that speaks of impellation, where it says that the government must respond to the submission of the interpretation within 30 days? So, five months have passed, you're not responding to that interpretation. We're interested in what for, and when you're going to answer. Do you want to finish your dirty work on the actual recognition of Kosovo and Metohija? Since your public, Borko Stefanovic, did not know that under international public law, recognition of a territory can be also practical and not just "de jure". Exactly what he is carrying out with agreements he is agreeing with Shiptar terrorists and human organs traders, so the Serbian government is organising through different regulations. In this regard, I am also asking the Republic Public Prosecutor – when he will initiate criminal proceedings for the execution of the crime in Article 307. Criminal law, endangering the territorial continent, against Borko Stefanovic, against Prime Minister Cvetkovic and against Boris Tadic? They recognise KIM's independence in fact, and they can add KIM's Minister, Bogdanovic. In accordance with Article 320. The criminal code states that the criminal offence is punishable and preparatory actions consisting of removing obstacles to the execution of this crime, which is a threat to the territorial continent of the Republic of Serbia. You have violated the territorial continent, the integrity of the Republic of Serbia, by introducing customs between Serbia and the AP KIM, although nowhere in Resolution 1244 there is such an opportunity to introduce such an opportunity to introduce customs between the autonomous province and the rest of Serbia. You did it, and you even agreed on a free movement agreement and introduced dragon taxes to Serbs whose only option will remain to be evicted, as Serbs south of Ibra are particularly at risk. Simply, they won't have the opportunity to give that kind of money, over 1,000 euros a year, to pay for that insurance of yours, agreed with Hashim Thaci, who according to Dick Marty, the head of the drug mafia and head of human organs dealers at KIM. You deal with people like that. Why? Because the users of their final services are your mentors in Brussels and Washington. It is no secret that the NATO pact via Afghanistan, from Afghanistan, through KIM, through the Cypriot drug mafia, supplies the Western country market to narcotics and other goods. Also, your guru, Dragoljub Micunovic announced the possibility of holding an international KIM conference because he wants to eliminate Resolution 1244. Interestingly, is that the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? It is also a question to Mirko Cvetkovic, as it is possible to change the borders of the Republic of Serbia at an international conference, it is possible to carry out what some suggest, the division of KIM, violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and give up KIM. Is this the real goal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to hand over once and for all to the Shiptar terrorists, to the drug dealers of KIM? Also a question for Mirko Cvetkovic, the responsible Government of the Republic of Serbia – why are the citizens of the Republic of Serbia deceived about Resolution 1244? In Resolution 1244, it explicitly states that Serb forces will return to KIM, among other things, to perform the following functions – maintaining their presence at Serbian historic sites, maintaining their presence at key border crossings, and here they are referring to crossing towards the Republic of Albania, according to Montenegro, towards Macedonia, and not referring to an administrative crossing towards Serbia. Why are you falsifying and violating Resolution 1244 and also violating the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? If you don't know, historic sites in KIM Serbia, there are over a thousand of them. Pay attention to that map, this is a map of only Serbian churches on KIM. Take a good look at this. Here they are to return, everywhere on these points they need to return to the Serb forces. The government of the Republic of Serbia's commitment is to implement the 1244 resolution through the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65202	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65203	Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Madam Chairman, I am asking the Prime Minister, the KIM Minister and the Finance Minister, and, of course, other competent authorities, as will be seen from the question of who this issue is all about. I ask the question – do the government and the authorities question how much Serbia has been costing cashed patriotism for the past 20 years? How much do those politicians who make money in Kosovo cost Serbia? How much does Serbia cost those who, for patriotic reasons, defend KIM, earn their own personal interest? How much does it cost Serbia to abuse Kosovo, in order to achieve personal benefit? Does Serbia take the necessary measures to show Serbian citizens how much those who were in 1999, all defending KIM, brought international troops to KIM, lead to a Kumanovo Agreement that excluded KIM territory from Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity? How much is it for the ones who still today, saying that... . (Boris Aleksic: Lies to citizens.) She didn't read the agreement. Read the agreement. ) (President: National MP Boris Aleksic, disrupts the session's order. Please, you have not been denied the right to address and you cannot, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, deny it to others. You continue to interfere with the session's order and I now give you a warning. The next measure is, of course, a warning. Excuse me, MPs. The MPs feel that they have the right to violate the provisions of silence and without reacting to the chairman. Go on. I fully understand the anxiety of those who are responsible for the situation in KIM today as it is. I fully understand the one that will certainly, not only historically, answer for it, but also answer to some other courts, because of the fact that many of them have obtained significant material benefits for themselves, while all of them, by God, have defended Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty at KIM. Of course, it should not be repeated that the government will never recognise Kosovo's independence, but also, we will not allow ourselves to pretend that Resolution 1244 and Kumanski Agreement did not occur in Kosovo, as if an international presence had not occurred, as if Serbia had not happened, as far as its sovereignty in KIM has lost its sovereignty to these documents, which are the result of a policy led until 1999. What might also be important to say the same is that the permission to return had those who were supposed to demining the terrain. If you think that's enough reason to send our young people there to lose their lives, knowing that the number that was then possible to send is very limited. We're talking 200 and a thousand. If you think that in this environment 200 people can represent a state under arms, then it is really also a very rough manipulation and the need to present the result of politics by 1999 more successful than it actually is. So, once again I ask a question and expect an answer -- does the government take all, and the competent institutions, to determine the full truth about who in all ways, by abuse of the KIM problem, achieve personal benefit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65204	Is there anyone else from the president, or authorized representatives, who has not applied his right to Article 286? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representative of Prosecutor Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, called for the members to attend Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Jagoda Jelic, Assistant Minister of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 11 to 15 of the agenda. Before I open a joint principle and uniform search, on the basis of Articles 87 and 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform the Members of Parliament that today's working day will be debated by a joint, principled and unique search of five points of the agenda that will be opened right now. When we conclude the principle and unique search of these points, we will move to the opening of the 16th agenda, and the working day will end with the conclusion of the debate on this last 16th item of the agenda. If it's necessary, we'll work, of course, after 1800 hours. Joint principled Single Search on Amendment Act and Supplements of the Code on Criminal Procedure, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Court Orders, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judicial Taxes and Proposal for a Decision on the termination of the term of office of a member of the High Council of the judiciary. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of MPs of members of the Parliamentary Group, and this: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I would ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately apply for a word, with a series of MPs who wish to participate in the debate, as, on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 96, paragraph 4 of the application for a word is received until the opening of the principle, common principle or common general and uniform review of the agenda points. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented by Parliament MP Judita Popovic, MP of the LDP; MP of the Verica Radeta Parliamentary Group of the SRS. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 192(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Arrangement of Courts, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Court Taxes and the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the term of office of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Do the proposing representatives, Snezana Malovic, Justice Minister and Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee want a word? Minister Snezana Malovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65205	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, proposed amendments to the Law on Regulating Courts, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the addition of the Law on Court Taxes are related to the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011. Their aim is to ensure that competences related to the proposal and distribution of budgets between the Supreme Council of the judiciary, i.e. the State Council of Prosecutors and the Ministry of Justice are specified. I would remind you that according to the applicable rules, judicial, or prosecutorial staff are classified on the appropriate knowledge, as well as that these titles are appropriate to the names of the Civil Service Act. In view of the above, the amendments to the Law on the Regulation of Courts and of the Law on Public Prosecutors, it is proposed that the affairs of the judicial administration, which relate to the proposal of part of the budget for expenditure, to the judicial or prosecutorial staff, as well as to the distribution of these funds, should be carried out by the Ministry of Justice, since the judicial or prosecutorial staff have the status of civil servants and deputies, so such a solution is certainly and more appropriate. Jobs relating to the proposal and distribution of budgets for the holders of judicial judges will be carried out by the High Council of the judiciary and the State Greater Prosecutors, further stressing the importance and independence of these bodies. The objective of the addition of the Law on Court Taxes is also to comply with the law, provided for by the jurisdiction of the High Council of the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice to carry out expenditure. I would remind you that the applicable Law on Court Taxes provides that 60% of the funds from the fees charged are used to improve the material position of the legal holders and employees in the judiciary, investments and current expenditures. This bill provides for an existing percentage of the allocation of funds from charged court fees, which specifically means that from the fees charged, 40% will be distributed for the current expenditures of courts, except for expenditure on judicial staff and staff to the Public Prosecutor's Office, and 20% to improve the material position of court employees and public prosecutors who are judicial staff and staff in the Public Prosecutor's Office, other expenditures, as well as investments. At the end of this presentation, I will also introduce you to the solutions set out in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure. As you know, the new Code of Criminal Procedure will apply from 15 January 2013, except in the proceedings for part of organised crime or war crimes conducted before the special section of the competent court, in which case it shall apply from 15 January 2012. It is precisely in order to create all necessary conditions for its recent application, and bearing in mind that in certain provisions of the Procedural Character Act on the Organisation of the Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the control of organised crime, corruption and particularly serious criminal offences and the Law on the Organisation of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure, a different solution is prescribed in relation to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code. It is necessary to amend and supplement certain provisions, mainly of a transitional nature, before the application of the Codes, in such a way as to specify the existing provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to put an end to the individual provision of specific laws. In this respect, amendments and additions to the provisions relating to the award of an expert, translator and interpreter in criminal proceedings under the jurisdiction of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Special Jurisdiction, provisions governing the transitional situation in relation to the legality of the actions taken in the criminal proceedings in which the Public Prosecutor's Office of Special Jurisdiction, which was initiated under this Code, are proposed, provided that the decision of the Court has determined the jurisdiction of the Special Court and the provisions governing the completion of the investigation of criminal offences under the jurisdiction of the public prosecutors of special jurisdiction. Also, all the provisions of the special law have been put out of force and full compliance with the Code of Criminal Procedure has been carried out. I would point out that, at the same time, there is a clearer application of the provisions of the new Code and that there are doubts about its application to which the professional public has pointed out. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that, following the debate in the National Assembly in principle and in particular, the proposed laws will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65206	Does the rapporteur of the Justice and Administration Committee, MP Bosko Ristic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65207	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, of all these draft laws on amendments and additions to judicial laws, I would in fact choose the last item, which is the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Why did I choose this point to focus on it? This is because this proposal is actually a paradigm in which institutions are compromised. It's a paradigm for this insufferable ease with which institutions in Serbia are collapsing. Simply, institutions are being questioned, and we have the ambition to build a legal order with serious institutions, with the serious integrity of these institutions. Here, the High Council of the Judiciary is a serious institution. I'd like to remind you what preceded the formation of this VSS. We're actually discussing a member of the VSS today, and that's about Mr. Professor. Dimitrievich, Dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis. I'd just like to tell you briefly that it's a member of the VSS who actually has triple legitimacy. The first legitimacy stems from the fact that this professor for the Dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis chose the classroom of the university. So, according to one democratic procedure. The second part of the legislation is the fact that he was proposed to be a member of the VSS law school in Serbia. All law schools are behind the proposal for Mr Dimitrijevic to become a member of the VSS. The third legitimacy stems from the fact that he was elected professor in this Assembly for a member of the VSS. So he got most of the MPs, again in one democratic procedure, which means that with that triple legitimacy, he got one serious integrity to be a member of the VSS. Those are facts irrefutable. I would like to underline something else, and that the Assembly, in addition to being the Supreme Legislative Body, is also a representative body, represents the citizens of this country. So, in fact, Professor Dimitrijevic was elected by citizens through these MPs as a member of the VSS. Isn't that enough to confirm the importance of this member in the Council? I think it is enough. On the other hand, we have the fact that the Anti-Corruption Agency has reached a first-degree solution that determines that Professor Dimitrijevic ceases by law to act as a member of the VSS because of the three-day deadline, within which he was bound by law to address the Agency and to request its opinion on whether he is in conflict of interest, given that the Dean of the Faculty of Law and, behold, he has now become a member of the VSS. So that's a first degree solution. I'm talking about the facts that Professor... Dimitrijevic did not even get an individual decision that he was elected a member of the Council. He wasn't even alerted to that fact that it was one pre-exclusive deadline, and it was very short notice. I would now move to a second-degree decision by the Anti-Corruption Agency. So, the Anti-Corruption Agency is making a second-degree solution where, in fact, when it confirms a second-degree solution, it enters into the measure of the decision why Professor Dimitrijevic stopped being a member of the VSS. So, they don't pay any more attention to the deadline, it's one procedural question, it's a clean procedure, but they're discussing whether the professor was in conflict of interest because he was a dean, because he was a university dean and because he accepted the post of member of the VSS. That, you'll allow, is one legal nonsens. Why is it a legal nonsens? Because some facts should be found in the first-degree process, based on some evidence, and after the first-degree decision, the person to whom the decision refers should file a complaint and then decide in the second-degree. In this case, the second-degree procedure took over the function and jurisdiction of the first-degree procedure and made the decision is – it is in conflict with jurisdiction, past the first-degree decision. So, what does this tell us? That's the facts. He says there is one serious non-cooperation, non-coordination between state bodies and institutions, where in this case there were the VSS, the Justice Committee of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly and the Anti-Corruption Agency. I think it may be least important here that the Anti-Corruption Agency did what it did, because it's only one of the 130 state agencies, but it's important that the consequences of this agency's actions, I repeat, one of the 130 state agencies, fail to discuss some important facts about the function of a member of the VSS, the way of his election, or missing deadlines. It was missed to allow the possibility that it might have been a valid failure. Yes, the law provides for deadlines, but this does not mean that such actions by the Anti-Corruption Agency should call into question the functioning of the VSS. I would remind you that a member of the VSS is in custody, one has resigned, and this VSS member, Professor. Dimitrijevic, according to the agency, stopped by law enforcement. This way VSS is paralyzed in his work. Why? Because the second-degree procedure does not involve judges who have decided, i.e. members who have decided in the first-degree selection procedure of judges or any decision-making process. That is, if the possibility of stopping the function of professors is accepted. Dimitrijevic, the VSS can no longer perform that function and that of its obligation under the law to the VSS. So, what are we talking about here? Are we discussing a lack of responsibility for society, which is ultimately affected by consequences, or are we talking about legality, legitimacy, and taking over some of the obligations provided for by law? The law stipulates that every institution, every state body must uphold the law, but only in the best interests of citizens. This law cannot be applied in this way if it results in exceptional damage precisely in the legal order and in the company in which it should work. Therefore, laws must be applied, institutions must be strengthened and cooperation between all state and society actors is necessary, not in this unilateral way to approach the functioning of an institution. I would remind you that we were discussing the budget yesterday, so the Anti-Corruption Agency could really look at the contents of that budget, that bill with about 1000 pages, and I guarantee that there will be a lot of things that the Agency could look forward to and find a lot of work for itself. So, if it is the task of the Anti-Corruption Agency to take care of all possible ways of law enforcement and to point out and fight corruption, it would be good to look at, say, one of the agencies and this Anti-Doping Agency in Serbia, which, for example, has the director of a man who is the Secretary-General of the Association of Medical Sports of Serbia. Therefore, there are two members who are members of the Anti-doping Agency Management Board who are also members of this association. Therefore, the director and two members of the Anti-doping Agency decide on the funds transferred to the Association, and then decide in that association on the spending of precisely these funds. In 2011, the Association for Medical Sports of Serbia received five million dinars from the Anti-doping Agency, and the owner of a medical institution is also the director of the Anti-doping Agency. We have a case of a serious breach of principle - to do everything possible to avoid conflict of interest. You will allow the conflict of interest, if some funds are decided by a state agency, to which these funds will be transferred, and you are also the beneficiary of these funds in that association at the medical facility where that money arrived. So this is one example of what all anti-corruption agencies would have to do to check, to achieve this declared goal - to fight corruption. Is this about some selective approach to work in a particular agency or is it about one insufficient competence of the same agency, in a limited number of personnel that could be working on huge problems that arise in Serbia's corruption. It's a question for the Agency. However, it is a question for this Parliament whether, in this way, which has been approached by the Agency, it can deny the legitimacy of a member of the VSS, to question the decision in this Parliament when electing that member of the VSS, and could it be called into question if this decision is implemented by the Anti-Corruption Agency? Someone will say that there is a law that provides for this short deadline and I will say – that's right. Yes, we advocate respect for the law, but we also advocate a fair procedure and we advocate that there be no individual interest in the first plan, that there be no one's vanity first plan, that there be no possible cooperation and co-ordination between the VSS, the Anti-Corruption Agency and Parliament. Therefore, with only one good co-operation, with respect to the law, and all of this in one common goal – for the benefit of the citizens, can also achieve valid results. The fact that an institution will end up being compromised, and it has already been compromised, and its importance speaks of it, and the importance is that the authority that decides on the choice of judges is of great importance to the state and society, of the utmost importance for the judicial reform process, which is so difficult to run and has serious problems and in what process they put so many obstacles. So, the point is that today he's in opposition to defending judicial reform, he's in opposition to defending VSS, his work, and a member of the VSS. You'll let that be funny if it's not sad. I think it is, however, the authority that is responsible for this, which is binding and which is responsible for the functioning of both the judicial system and the legal order and for all state authorities and state agencies that have just been created by the government's proposal. So it's not the opposition that needs to defend, it's the opposition that's supposed to point to failures. This indicates the failures of all these relevant factors that have together produced this problem. This way we point to a complete lack of understanding of the seriousness of the situation in which we are as a state and society and in a complete lack of responsibility to meet our obligations properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65208	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the parliamentary group Go ahead, Serbia's Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65209	Thank you. In the first part of these 20 minutes, I will talk about court fees and amendments to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office and the regulation of courts, and in 25 minutes I will leave if I have enough time to talk about amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Now you will be asked, as proposings – what caused this to be used all the time that the parliamentary group has at your disposal and you just wanted to change some of the little things in this law, where to spend on the position or salary of the staff employed in the bodies after the reformed judiciary, the judicial staff and to distribute the funds and propose a part of the budget for them is not done in those bodies, the prosecution, the High Council, but to do so somewhere else, and where else we will see it. However, I would like to start from the very beginning of the reform of the judiciary, and I will be very brief. In April of the month, when the spears had already broken extensively about the failure or success of judicial reform with stubbornly stuck views of both sides of those who disputed and those who praised. I had the opportunity to get acquainted with something that our Serbian Republic's mission to the EU has been announced, where the first priority for EU accession was precisely the problem of continuing to reform the judiciary, stressing that Serbia had joined this complex business in the early phase of EU accession before the negotiations began. That was priority number one. Under two, it was not related to what my colleague Judith was saying, but two were fighting corruption and organised crime. Here you have heard what has come down and it is stated in this sense that the EU insists on the adoption of a law on the financing of political parties, which will respect the opinion of the Venice Commission and comply with European standards in that area, and then I will speak a little about this in particular. Change of electoral law is a third priority. Under four -- ensuring the functioning of independent regulatory bodies. Five were – the establishment of legal certainty of clear property rights. Under six – establishing respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the importance of minority rights, in particular Roma rights, improving their position, freedom of the media, improving the rights of prisoners, resolving refugee issues. The following was an emphasis on the importance of full co-operation with institutions to obtain a positive opinion and the final priority was – in the framework of regional co-operation, it was assessed, so the alleged -- a positive start of dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina and the importance of improving the lives of Kosovo citizens. Now the usual thing is going, so no one feels very rooted, rebuked, but, to be supported to work further, it is concluded that there are great challenges, but to see steps in the right direction. When something doesn't go right, then you say – we go in the right direction, slow, but step by step. What was then presented as a technical problem in all these issues? The importance of good regional co-operation has been stressed, but a dialogue is expected to address technical problems. This is what is the problem in Kosovo today, and it is called the payment of insurance and the inability to cross the border in the part of the Serbian state without a significant amount of funding. It has been said that dialogue should be based on fundamental texts and the absence of Serbs in the recent local KIM elections and the existence of parallel structures in northern Kosovo has been criticised. But something that didn't leak out to the public, and I'm going to add it because it fits into all this story, as you can see, through reform and the influence of the judiciary in all of these parts is very important. The question of the letter has been raised – Association of private doctors and dentists "Salus" from Novi Sad. The Commissioner of the European Commission for Enlargement and Neighbouring Policy, which was also delivered to members of the Friendship Group, Edward Kukan, Jel Kukacin, and to all parliamentary groups that are members of those groups of friendships and others, in which they state that their contributions to the European Commission questionnaires have not been forwarded to the European Commission by the Office for European Integration, stressing that this is a discriminatory relationship with the association which has brought about the corruption charges in the contributions. What's our number one theme today? Why are we talking about two brave people, Milimir Lukic, who resigns and gives an explanation very bravely at the moment, otherwise it is very well founded, but today in Serbia it is very brave. On the other hand, YouTube is the most visible footage of Mr Milanovic, who also directly and unequivocally brings to this topic the allegations of corruption in health and says that after that contribution he will be able to work in a cafe near Danica Draskovic, and I wonder if the cameramen who applauded him on his live broadcast on the suspension. It's Serbia today. Furthermore, the question has been raised – what has Serbia done to prevent false asylum seekers? And we are once again the first to be deprived of the right we received from the Schengen. (President: I apologize Mrs Tabakovic, six and a half minutes, seven, trying to figure out what part of the topic you're talking about, so please help me understand that. ) Since you're a lawyer, I can't understand that you don't see what's wrong with the subject. We are talking about allegedly minor changes concerning redistribution of funds for judicial staff in newly formed bodies and after judicial reform. And the overall reform of the judiciary is the first priority of remarks which, when I say comment here, is not sufficiently established, when we say that abuses in the budget and such are not sufficiently established. But there's a reputation for a DRI that no one can dispute anymore, but according to her applications, something has to happen. The unequivocal authority now for Mrs. Minister, for the Serbian public in terms of the executive authority, is what I say. What is not known to the general public, where stopping the construction of institutional reforms here in Serbia, not putting bags on our backs and moving towards Brussels, but ending jobs here, is patriotism and not keeping Serbia and Kosovo together. No, these are the problems that are priorities for all of us, which does not raise questions or the importance of the problem we have in regional representation of Kosovo's negotiations, etc. But I am talking about what in the reform of the judiciary, which is once again a subject, which is also Milimir Lukic's resignation and the judiciary is that branch which is independent of the executive government, must fight for freedom of the media, which is the problem, must fight against corruption in health, which is topic number one. He's got to fight to stop fake asylum seekers, because it's not just the Home Office job. And you, and such great challenges that the judiciary was supposed to take over, instead remained unsolved, but the judiciary dealt with itself. Isn't that right? That's exactly what I'm trying to prove to you. The fact that the office didn't file a complaint with Salus, you know that at the time of the global village and the Internet there are no secrets in terms of corruption or the objections of this body I'm talking about. Let me tell you at that inter-legal meeting that was public, it was me, because the representatives of the ruling parties avoided leaving, there were few, there was Miss Jerkov, she was a young colleague from the DS, but these topics were avoided talking. I was just defending that there was no censorship in April of the month in Serbia. Mr. Todorovic's remarks that, in the case of his arrest, human rights were not respected, it was a certain gentleman who owned the Meridian Bank and in illegal bankruptcy he actually suffered, as our people would say. And when Mrs Delevic wondered how he was now seeking protection from the European authorities, I said he didn't deserve it because he was probably legally arrested. Now, are there any failures in the procedure I don't know? I didn't want the state of Serbia to compromise. Evidence, the problems that shouldn't have been so high-ranked as the reason for our keeping aside, knowing that we have problems in all these areas, we didn't mention them, so that you would fully consider this support as a possibility that you could continue to do almost what you wanted. Why, almost what do you want? You instead of solving these and these problems, and avoiding these objections, you're going out with, I'm going to start with the Court Tax Act, where you say -- earlier the revenues from the court taxis went completely to Serbia's budget, went as revenue to the budget, so now you're waving heads, and I'm going to read, the Law on Court Taxes, the last Official Messenger is 3109, in article 51, it's prescribed that the fees paid to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'm reading your argument right now. The draft law amending the Law on Court Taxes provides for the use of fines charged to comply with the jurisdiction of the High Council of the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice for the execution of expenditure. I know exactly what I'm talking about. I know I'm singled out as income, I'm divulging budget funds, I'm divulging my own sources of income. The court fees have always been income everywhere, and now you want to determine, in accordance with the provisions of the new, reformed judiciary, that 40% is distributed for the current expenditures of courts except for expenditure on judicial staff in the public prosecutor's office, and 20% to improve the material positions of court employees and public prosecutors who are judicial staff and staff in the public prosecutor's office, other expenditures as an investment in accordance with the law. All right, you're right. But were you in line with what the achievements in this area predicted that you should release two categories for those who should be exempt from the costs of the proceedings in the protection proceedings, even from discrimination and domestic violence. They don't serve these appearances for advertising, for collecting points when actions are carried out, for paying for advertising spaces and for having really scary ads at some point when it's time to put the kids to sleep, not to be silent about violence, etc. I guess the first place we're going to support the fight against these phenomena is this place where we're going to get rid of the expense of this one who, in court proceedings, is supposed to seek protection from these two phenomena. So, all the time I'm saying that this government is verbally in favour of one thing, but essentially, it doesn't encourage its efforts in concrete action that is exclusively in its jurisdiction. You know how much litigation procedures we have, long, tight with high costs, and that the damaged come into a situation that they can't start a lawsuit just because they don't have for court fees and lawyers. In the event of a case being brought up, they shall not hesitate to be ordered to pay high costs for the procedure to be further increased if they are not paid within the time limit and that the compensation should be carried out in a long-term executive procedure. This is a general rule. So, first you pay the state's court fees and everything else, and then you get what you're ordered to do in a legal procedure. We have suggested that the payment of taxis be released by a person damaged by a criminal offence in a lawsuit and the procedure for the execution of a convicted property-law claim and that they fall entirely upon the burden of the perpetrator of the crime. Taxes shall not be paid in the process of protection against discrimination and domestic violence. We have reduced some percentages, and this 20% share that 10% is going to improve the material position of court employees and public prosecutors, and 10% for other expenditures and investments. I don't think I have to be a lawyer or an economist or an expert in which area to realize that you're trying to separate professional staff from a person appointed in a court of law. I don't think that's right. You're disrupting the unity of the organs in general that should work together. So these rights will be resolved because they are in accordance with the Civil Service Act, some coefficients are ranked differently and their rights will be decided by someone else. It's not in the other bill's motions that we can tell who's going to decide who's going to decide about them. Now, in your argument, you're openly saying that the ministry is deciding and asking, etc. You do not realize that, by trying to supplement the Public Prosecutor's Law, you are practically in violation of Article 127(3), where, for example, the scope and structure of the budget necessary for the prosecution's work is not separate from these professional affairs and these top-notch, creative ones. I think it's like a phenomenon, I don't think, I'm sure it's not good as a phenomenon. We are witnessing this building where we are sitting and the institutions where what is called in the world "stafs" are separated and in some way simply opposed to the MPs we have to work with, I will not say that they are there to serve and do good, I will not say that they serve MPs, I can be misunderstood. We have a case to pay them, and the Civil Service Act puts them in a position above those who are their superiors, commanders who answer. These are people who do some technical work, but they have a salary higher, we mentioned yesterday, head of the cabinet of the President of the Assembly, other technical staff, I won't even mention MPs, because I'm not talking about myself, but it's a shame that every single officer in the service that has a rank, a senior professional associate has a salary bigger than the MPs. You can tell someone that you respect him very much, but you respect him for what you give him and what you value his work properly or at least by unique criteria, where fate is shared by employees and employers, where fate is shared in the court of those persons and these staff. I can understand that they come in a different way to that body, as in the Assembly, in the electoral procedure, MPs come in these benches, and that employees or "stafs" are elected either in competitions or have a contract of work. Instead of being valued at least in such a way that this difficult and more demanding procedure is respected respect for the conditions, for the sake of or receiving, you have made it proportionally proportionate. Then they can rightly tell drivers and secretaries that they are waiting and sending ministers, they can rightly tell experts to welcome and send vice presidents and deputies, because they are the ones standing. Do you want to create such a situation in the bodies of the judiciary, in violation of what is most important to me as someone who understands the economy, the unity and the budgetary system? You are violating what is the unity of the budgetary system as the Law on the Budgetary System and the basis for determining the costs of financing any branch of government. This leaves you personnel in the hands of the executive authority, questioning the independence of the judicial branch in relation to the executive power, because staff will not try to do good for whoever they are working with, or for the judge. He will try to reach out to whoever pays him or strives to show him loyalty. I'm sorry, if I've used the wrong term to touch it, but to be loyal. Today, that self-censorship or only censorship and the unexpected support of the one who pays it, brings the person who works with that person into a situation that he can't do his job in quality, but he has to do both technical work and that high-level. So you've absolutely missed this part of the job where you and the State's Attorney General have taken the jurisdiction to question what's his jurisdiction under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65210	Time, Mrs. Tabakovic. The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mrs Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65211	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing four draft laws on amendments and additions or only amendments or only additions of certain laws from the judicial district, and in those four laws we have 14 members. So much for seriousness, and you will hear individually about what these changes are all about. What made the impression was that Mrs Malovic, when she spoke about the opening work on these points of the agenda, accidentally or intentionally left out to talk about the proposal for a decision to suspend the office of a member of the High Council of the judiciary, which, as far as we are concerned by the SRS, is particularly significant and we will pay particular attention to this point that goes within all of these. You're famous for not being interested in the law or the Constitution. You're doing it your way. Evidence, here's a digression. For example, on September 8th, the last session of the SO League was held and the next session was scheduled for December 16th. So it's been eight days since that deadline. At that session, your people adopted the budget, and so on, they made completely illegal decisions. But we'll see if they react to the department, because they'll certainly be radicals from the League to react to this. So, we have been proposed a decision on the termination of the post of High Council member, Mr Dimitrijevic, due to conflicts of interest. Before we ask, Mrs Malovic, and I ask you now as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary and here is Mr Bosko Ristic, who seems to have done well, why are we discussing this proposal with so much delay today, why do we not have a decision on the resolution of the famous Blago Jaksic, whom we have removed immunity but is still a member of the High Judiciary Council? I remind you, it's that judge who's in custody for some serious criminal activity, at least that's what we've been informed of, and you've chosen him as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. Why don't we have a proposal to resolve or name someone else instead of Milimir Lukic? This gentleman informed the National Assembly that he had resigned as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary and, among other things, because Mr Lukic said, "for the absence of a fundamental responsibility for the court and opinion expressed, some members of the High Council of the Judiciary in the process of reviewing the decisions of the First Council of the Judiciary, after the hearings, shall be given one opinion and a court based on which to vote and a proposal for a decision to pass on to the High Council of the Judiciary, and that, at the session of the High Council of the Court, the same proposal shall be decided by the same member of the panel. Furthermore, Milimir Lukic says: "Because of the way the Ministry of Justice ignores and bypasses the jurisdiction of the High Council of the judiciary provided for in Article 13. The law on the High Council of the judiciary, in the process of proposing and passing laws, thus making it impossible for the High Council of the judiciary to exercise its powers." He further informs the MPs that this calls into question the constitutional position of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, because, how will this authority, Lukic, say, ensure and guarantee the independence and independence of courts and judges if it cannot ensure the independence and independence of its members? Namely, the latest amendment and addition of the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, the position of election members of the High Council of the judiciary has been placed in the position that they can be resolved and removed at almost any moment, and that will certainly lead to the role of a member of the High Council of the judiciary being reduced to pure form, decor or protocol. So these are the reasons that are now listed to you by a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, Mr Lukic, and these reasons and much wider we of the SRS have spoken very often, and when these laws were passed and when these people were elected, etc. We knew you were doing a very bad job. The result of such a functioning of the High Council of the Judiciary is probably Judge Srecko Topalovic from Raca. That judge was arrested for selling, along with some warehousers, the goods from the courthouse. So, he took the goods and then he sold them in smuggling to secure his own illegal material benefit, him and these people who were involved in it. Mrs. Malovic and Mr. Bosko Ristic, this is just an illustration of what kind of judges you chose. A little bit, a little bit, so we have a judge in the paper with inappropriate text for a judge. You swore we chose the best. We've been telling you that you've chosen party personnel. At least it's certain you haven't chosen the worthy. When we say this, we never think about all the judges, we don't even think about most of the judges, we think about those listeners of yours. We understand that you couldn't claim right now that this Raska judge is not going to commit any crime. Clearly, you can't exactly stand behind everyone but you were too confident when you talked about it, Mrs. Malovic, as you are otherwise confident when you talk about judicial reform, and judicial reform is no good for you. It's not just the attitude of the SRS, it's what everyone's talking about. That's what your friends in the white world write about. We are not interested in their opinion, we as people living in Serbia, who are politicians in Serbia, who have contact with Serbian citizens know what the situation is. Ask the people, Mrs. Malovic, how pleased they are with your reforms. They say they're desperate. You didn't achieve anything from what you had good intentions when you claimed here, but it would be better. If you'd listened to us a little bit, you'd have fewer headaches today. Mr. Predrag Dimitrijevic, a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, today we need to make a decision that he will no longer be, but we ask why today. The High Council of the Judiciary issued a statement and informed the public of why we are discussing this with so much delay. On May 19th and 25th, the High Council of the judiciary addressed the President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, Mr. Bosko Ristic, in order to obtain information on whether the Assembly had received the solution that this Mr. Dimitrijevic was in conflict of interest, as they say, it is necessary that the National Assembly should make a decision at the end of the post of Prof. Dr. Predrag Dimitrijevic as a member of the Council until today, and this was on December 14th, they say, the High Council of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly on the termination of the position of members of the Council of Law Professors, Professor Dimitrijevic. Until the Council has received a decision from the National Assembly, he is an equal member, an election member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. That is said in a statement of December 5th, and of course it is. It's strange, they say, that, otherwise, this professor is a dean of the Faculty of Law in Nis, and somehow everything about Nis, is connected to Bosko Ristic, and now let's remind ourselves of that huge number of lawyers from Nis, many have passed through Bosko Ristic's office who were elected judges, so we almost got, I don't know what you're smiling about, Mr. Ristic, we almost got some letters here, we read them, you weren't there, so here we're reminding you – they say that in Nis the seal of your office costing 500 euros, because someone who comes from your office with the stamp of Bosko Ristic's lawyer office, has a pass in courts, and that's why people say they go from one to another lawyer who makes them a submission for some normal bar tariff, and then they go to your office by that seal. So this is the story we got in the letters, this is the story that's being told in Nis. but what is evident here and what is not disputed is strange, they say in this statement from the High Council of the Judiciary, why Bosko Ristic, president of the Assembly Committee on Justice and Administration, on June 8th, so you write, that you did not get a first-degree solution from the Anti-Corruption Agency, which was since December 2010, which found to be Prof. Dimitrijevic in a conflict of interest and that, as the university's dean, he cannot also be a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and it is undeniable that this solution was taken in parliament on 24 December last year. Mr. Bosko Ristic, where did you hide from December 24th last year until December 24th this year this solution from the Anti-Corruption Agency? Obviously, or he was hiding someone else, maybe Veljko Odalovic, I don't know, but it's undeniable. So with the seal there is a solution here, received December 24th. Since you're the chairman of the board, it's kind of logical that it has something to do with you. But, well, maybe now you'll say that Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic hid it, possibly. What's interesting is, that you should have been aware, when this Mr. Predrag Dimitrijevic was elected, if you had looked at a little bit, Mrs. Malovic, the law, or if you had listened to us from the Serbian Radical Party, you would see that this gentleman is in conflict of interest and that he can't be a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. What's even more interesting is the question, first of all, for the Serbian citizens to hear and see what you're going to tell us. This gentleman has been in conflict for a year. He's done a lot of work in that year - you've been doing some audits, you've brought back some judges, some of them you haven't returned. They say, the media says, that you've been mobbing over those judges you're supposed to bring back, by hearing them at two or three o'clock at night, to see if they've become worthy in the meantime, if you can get them back to work. That's what this gentleman was involved in that conflict of interest. The question for you two - what will happen to all those decisions in which this gentleman participated? There is, for God's sake, and a decision where Jaksic, who is now in custody, participated, so the question, you didn't answer us last time, what will happen to those decisions in which a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, who is suspected of crime, is worth 20 million, which is why he is in custody? Does this Milimir Lukic still participate in the work of the Council? The one who insulted you about how the Council works, and what apparently a man is right. The assembly received this resignation on December 9th. So we expect an answer to this question as well. Now a few key things related to the proposals of these four laws. We are on all 14 members as many as these four laws have, and they have 14 members, submitted 14 amendments. Of course, we'll discuss the amendments in detail, each of these members. It's interesting here that you change these laws four or five times and seven times. Really request, let's sit down once and do one human law. Imagine, four laws, 14 members, some of them changing seven times. Well, unserious, really unserious. Do you have anyone there who knows how to write bill and think about what you want for once? You have 126, sometimes you have a problem with that, but when you get those 126 to pass some law that's really going to last. What did you do with these suggestions we're discussing today? You're here employed by the D.A.'s office and the D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s office, and you've put them here in a situation of second-class citizens. They will not be offered by the High Council of the Judiciary, or the State's Chief Prosecutors, in the budget of their earnings, but will only do so for judges and public prosecutors, and the ministry will do so for these employees. You pass these laws on the assumption that the budget has been adopted, on the one hand. On the other hand, these laws had to be passed in order to regulate it in the budget, as you suggest here, because it's related to each other. A few days ago, we had a discussion here about amendments to the Constitutional Court Act. There, you were employed in the Constitutional Court, gluffing, giving them salaries twice as much as employees in other courts. There, the judges can determine how many salaries their associates will have, as if decisions of the Constitutional Court depend on them, as if they were more important than the judges of the Constitutional Court. You're doing the opposite thing here. Here, therefore, you do not want the employees of the judiciary to be all in the same rank. So is it a judge or an associate, how can you tell them apart in this way, and in particular, we all know that associates are actually doing judicial work? The judge is only present at the hearing, everything else is done by the associates. Now you leave the possibility, we ask ourselves – will you even as the Ministry of Justice to predict that they get paid in the first place? You know, these amendments to the law look like these people can fear that, after adopting this budget and these laws, they won't get paid anymore. The amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure – here you have really magically inserted something that is amazing, which is that the experts and translators who work in these special institutions, I mean the Court of War Crimes and organised crime, they will have twice as much money as the experts and translators will have in the procedure before regular courts. So this is proof of what we in the Serbian Radical Party have been saying since the beginning. We don't need any specialized judicial facilities. We need your honors and we need proper authority, where the executive power will not interfere with the work of the judiciary. You, by this law amending the law and supplementing the CAP, clearly confirm that you want both experts and translators in the service of those specialised courts of yours, because decisions are made by order. By order, Mrs. Malovic, there are decisions being made and we have often talked about it, both in war crimes councils and in those for organised crime, there is a decision to be ordered. You remember what you proposed for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Nata Mesarovic, remember when she said - we got a decision instead - we made a decision when she must have spoken. That's what those so-called... (President: Time.) A colleague, it was almost a minute longer, I thought you had extended a little bit. (President: A little while ago there was a warning of a return for the agenda, but you held to the agenda, which I thank you for also a very professional and reasoned discussion. ) Thank you, my colleague, will be even more argumentative during the debate on amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65212	The word has a minister. Mr. Bosko Ristic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65213	I have the right to a replica, since I've been mentioned several times by name and last name, I think there's a reason to answer. First of all, I want to say that with this once overcome rhetoric, the political option that wants to discuss serious matters is humiliating its position among citizens and among voters. Everyone estimates how instructed it is to choose such a way and such a dictionary, that such unargued attacks try to build their position in the electoral body. Since the facts that are very important for the debate under this set of laws and in the decision on a proposal for the resolution of the VSS member, Mr. Professor, have been mentioned here several times. Expensive Dimitrievich, I'd like to say that this has gone on with a lot of untruth. First of all, those who are lawyers by vocality, and are discussing it, should know that against every solution in this country, which is a democratic right, there is also the right to appeal. No one mentioned that against the first-degree solution, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the person has the right to appeal. If someone wants to deny citizens the right to appeal, it is a matter of his political commitment, but we, as a democratic option, are pushing for two-stage decision-making and that every citizen has the right to protect his interests in the court proceedings, then through the Constitutional Court and has the right to access even to the Court of Human Rights. Mrs. Radeta, you have here made false statements about the movement of the case file regarding the motion to resolve Mr. Predrag Dimitrijevic, although in the regulation itself, in the decision of the Anti-Corruption Agency, there is a lot of controversy. First of all, the basis set in that decision says that Mr. Predrag Dimitrijevic comes into conflict of interest only because he has not informed within three days Can I continue as chairman of the Justice Committee? [[President: Thank you, replica time is up.]] (President: No. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65214	The word has a minister, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65215	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I simply feel it is necessary at this point to answer some of the questions raised by the authorised legislators of the parliamentary groups, in order to contribute to the clarification of the ongoing debate. First, I would like to point out amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes and to point to Article 51 of the existing Law on Court Taxes, which regulates and says that 60 percent of taxis paid will be used to improve the material position of judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, judicial staff and staff in public prosecutors, judicial addendum, investment, judicial authorities and current expenditures. This clearly shows that the court fees charged in court proceedings are not exclusively the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but is at a very high rate of 60%, which was done in 2001, returns to the courts themselves to improve their material position, both the holders of judicial functions and employees. These amendments to the Law on Judicial Taxes only specify that 40% is going to improve the material position of the holders of judicial functions. To a large extent, this is used for their salaries, and 20% is used to invest in the judiciary and improve the material position of employees. Amendments to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on Courts which remain in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, as regards the determination of wages, have its meaning and it is sufficient to say, it is sufficient to look at Article 70 relating to matters which constitute judicial administration in the Law on the Regulation on the Regulation on the Organisation of Courts, which states that the affairs of the judicial administration carried out by the Ministry of Justice, in addition to other cases, are also to be agreed upon by the Rules on the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs in Courts and Prosecutors. It is therefore much more comprehensive and better to continue to worry about salaries and other bonuses on salary, including the incentives that the Ministry of Justice has paid employees in the judiciary over these years. I would also like to draw attention to the need to spread neither fear nor panic that there will be no salary for the employees of the judicial authorities for the simple reason that this has already been done by the draft budget law for 2012, which is being discussed in this respected home. It is clear to me, when it comes to any amendments to the judicial laws, whether it concerns the status of judges and prosecutors or an organisation within courts and prosecutors, that judicial reform and the work of the VSS are discussed. As a member of the VSS and as a minister of justice who has proposed judicial laws concerning judicial reform, I have a duty to speak. Like I said, it's clear to me that the topic is spreading to that part. I am obliged, for the sake of Serbian citizens, to explain the procedure for the resolution of VSS members and also to answer the question why the resolution of the VSS member, currently in criminal proceedings and detention, is not on the agenda. There is a procedure, which is democratically and legally envisaged, for the resolution of members of the VSS. He is currently under suspension and unrelated to his status in custody or free person, will not participate in the work of the VSS. I deeply believe that the competent body of the VSS will take care of it. At the same time, it was also said that a note was made in the way judges and members of the VSS themselves were elected. I think that the events that followed are just denying the thesis of some who tried to demote or destroy judicial reform through this, were the fact that VSS and the state's major prosecutors used data from security services or police data. Just in case he's connected to a VSS member, Jaksic, I deny that thesis. I would also like to refer to the resignation of a member of the VSS, which was discussed at the previous session of this distinguished home, counterpart Lukic, who expressed disdain over the draft law proposed by the ministry of justice, which was not notified by the VSS. That's not true, and you don't have to trust me. It is enough to make an insight into all the laws that the Ministry of Justice, under its obligation under the VSS Act that we have also proposed and defended, was submitted to the VSS, many of them were given an opinion. As far as the recent amendments to the VSS Act are concerned, I, as justice minister, have informed the VSS and this is in the records of the work of this respected body. Also mentioned is the recent detention of Judge Topalovic, and this says that it is simply a different state and a different way of handling justice, unlike any previous period where there has been a complete absence of responsibility or when there is a breach of the rules of law, I speak to both the basic and the criminal proceedings, very often there has been no adequate treatment, both in terms of disciplinary responsibility and in terms of the conduct of criminal proceedings, as you can see, there is no case here. All those who break the law, not related to whether it is criminal responsibility or disciplinary responsibility, so far there are precise rules and procedures to discuss these infringements. Some have also tried to point out the fact that there is a party judiciary and party personnel. I think it's simply not true, and maybe it comes from the fact that, as stated in the means of public information, that somewhere around 500 unelected judges are now members of an opposition political party, and I guess from some previous act, when they were able to influence and make decisions, important decisions, they probably draw that conclusion. What does the people say? That question was also asked. The statistics on the work of the courts show that the courts work much more effectively. Of course, we're not satisfied, I expect additional efforts to be made. Also, statistics show that criminal policy is significantly sharper, which was also one of the objectives when we started reforming the judiciary, but we should also see the latest polls carried out by the Republic Bureau of Statistics, which I was informed of, as well as everyone, when this research is revealed in means of public information, that the judiciary no longer falls within the profession of our citizens who are corrupt. I'll remind you of a similar study, also with a great struggle of respondents, in 2007, when the judiciary, according to our citizens, was another profession of corruption. I was asked whether I accidentally or intentionally left out to talk in my opening statement about Professor Dimitrijevic, who was proposed by the Anti-Corruption Agency for a certain decision, discussed in this distinguished home. I just didn't do it, because I'm not an authorised promoter, but as a member of the VSS, I have a duty to talk and talk about it, and I'm very happy to do it. I don't think a certain procedure before the agency related to Professor Dimitrijevic is sufficiently clear. In fact, the law allows someone to be in two functions, it is not a conflict of interest, but rather a part of the accumulation of functions, but that it is necessary to seek the consent of the Anti-Corruption Agency. For the sake of citizens and for the truthfulness of all the facts, it should be said that the professor did so in the appeal procedure led at the level of the Agency's board, however, the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee did not find it appropriate to respect it, as I said, in the appeal procedure. Also, as someone who has proposed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and who is largely the minister of justice responsible for the adoption of a strategy and action plan to fight corruption, but also my functions as co-ordinator in the fight against corruption, I must point to Article 51. The law on the Anti-Corruption Agency relating to the measures given to officials for breach of the law, which can also be the measure of warning and public publication of resolution recommendations. It remains, of course, an inconceivable why the agency went on such a drastic scale, although, as I said, it is a kind of institute that refers to the accumulation of functions and, as I said, did not respect the appeal of Professor Dimitrijevic, who requested such consent in this second-degree procedure. I thank you, and I hope that in further discussion, we can explain some more facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65216	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. The word has a folk MP, Ms. Verica Radeta, based on a replica of Mr. Bosko Ristic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65217	Indeed, both the demagogue and the misleading rhetoric of Mr. Ristic has been overcome. When this solution came about the conflict of interest of Mr Dimitrijevic, here, if you waited the second degree, it came on June 8th 2011. So we very much respect that possibility, or you in your laws have a few times situation where you do not predict the second degree of procedure. We in the SRS respect that very much. Now we ask you, since only a dispute can be held against this solution, if you wanted to wait for the court's decision, why did you put this on our agenda today? If you didn't want to wait for the court's ruling, why didn't you accept that this was discussed from June 8th to today? That's what I asked you, colleague Ristic, during this debate. I find it interesting, actually, I couldn't conclude right now, Mrs. Malovic, do you respect the Anti-Corruption Agency or not? I understand, when it comes to this Dimitrijevic, who is very important to you, you wonder why the agency, or its committee, did so. Wait, is there a conflict of interest or not? Do you, as Minister of Justice, have the right to publicly state now that you do not understand why the agency has made such a decision? Is that a bit of interference in independent regulatory bodies? Take care of what you say, Mrs. Malovic. It's not good to hear it from the Minister of Justice's mouth. Just before I did a lapus when I was talking about an illegal decision, I'm finishing up, Mr. Novakovic, about an illegal assembly, an illegal assembly, not in the League, but in Ubba. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65218	Thank you. Let me just say that the session agenda is composed of Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. The word is based on the replica of the People's MP, Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65219	Since I'm already running out of time, I have to add a further answer to Mrs. Verice Radete's question now, because since December last year we arrived by the end of June of this year, so we've already justified six months why this case was in the process. Also, as the colleague herself said, there is the right of participants in the procedure to initiate an administrative dispute, for which they have 30 days from the day of receipt of the solution by appeal, so essentially that deadline for the launch of the administrative dispute from the day of admission to Mr. Predrag Dimitrijevic ran somewhere by the end of the summer. Only when we got the correspondence to confirm that the administrative dispute wasn't initiated, did we put the Agency's report on the Justice Committee. The Justice Committee discussed the agency's proposal, drafted the report and delivered it to the Assembly. Through the assembly work to prepare the session, it had a certain procedure and the first opportunity to put it on the agenda was used. That's what it's all about. By the way, I do not think there is any conflict of interest between the duties of the Dean of the Faculty of Law and the members of the VSS, since the Constitution itself defines that all colleges, i.e. the deans of the Faculty of Law in Serbia, choose, or propose, a candidate for a member of the VSS, and the Assembly is obliged to elect a candidate with the highest number of votes to the VSS. So there's no conflict, but there's a battery function, unless you have the consent of the agencies to perform those functions. They exist in front of the agency in the process and some other measures. There are non-public and public warnings for those who violate the procedure. Therefore, according to my personal conviction and understanding, the agency could initiate such a procedure against the candidate, since it did not inform within three days of entering the post of VSS member. Otherwise, I would also remind myself that it is necessary to consider the fact that the university is independent and that no one has the right to interfere in selecting a dean of the university, so that is both the fact and the circumstance to think about when deciding on the Agency's request.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65220	Replica, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65221	If there's an independent body and an organ, then it should be the Anti-Corruption Agency. We were saying that Zorana Markovic is not the best choice for the director of this agency. We now see that it seems that the time has come to slowly pack, since neither the minister of justice nor Bosca Ristic likes the Anti-Corruption Agency's committee. We still believe that, regardless of what we think is not a good solution, as it was not a good solution to form the Agency, when we already have a Council to fight corruption, but it is unacceptable to involve someone like this in the Agency's work. So why don't you raise your voice when it comes to someone else? You are now stuck with Professor Dimitrijevic and must not be in conflict of interest, although that is what the Agency has said. It's very unserious and incomprehensible. If you respect the work of the so-called. independent bodies, then respect him anyway. If you question the validity of the decisions and the work of this agency, please, raise a question, and we'll discuss it, and we'll help you with more examples, to show you how biased it is and in this agency, as well as in almost all so-called. regulatory independent bodies. It would be best if you changed the law because of that Jaksic, to change both the law and the Constitution because of Dimitrijevic. Well, your people, let's regulate the law every specific case. This is a little joke. Seriously, try to fit the law, you're lawyers, officials, make sure the judges don't judge the law, but by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65222	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled and uniform search, the application for a word, in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: New Serbia, LDP, Advanced Serbia and the SRS. The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65223	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, the draft law supplementing the Law on Regulating Courts, supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors, as well as on judicial fees, have basically only one objective – to separate the jurisdiction of planning expenditure for court employees, i.e. public prosecutors, whose working status – legal status is characterized by the status of civil servants and deputies, from the competence to determine other expenditures in these institutions. Thus far, the VSS, or DVT, has proposed part of the budget for the work of these institutions in respect of current expenditures, including staff, and these changes are part of this competence, as regards expenditure relating to professional staff, transferred to the Ministry of Justice, as authorities of the state administration. Also, the amended law on court fees specified that the current 60% percentage of the gross amount of fees charged to these institutions, now in the beginning is divided by 2:1, where two-thirds go to finance the current expenditures of courts and prosecutors, and one-third to improve the material position of court employees and public prosecutors. When we talk about this, we can't seem to say that we have some big grudges about all this, but generally, I'm going to concentrate in this part of the Court Tax Act. Madam Minister, I have repeatedly said here that, practically, since everything is related to the amount of court fees, there was room for fundamental changes to improve the overall work of the judiciary. I will once again point out that too many taxes, then, neatly, what is said to be not paying taxis and punishing litigation parties with 50% of the amount of court fees, is too high a tax that the party in the litigation process and in other proceedings should pay. I can't help but think there are better solutions. In one discussion about two years ago, we all agreed, when I said, that an initial act should possibly be paid – a lawsuit, and that everything else, when it comes to the judgment fee, the enforcement fee, should be charged in the end. We can even question this first initial act. Why am I saying this? If you are doing all of this today when it comes to rewarding or redistributing or improving the situation, there is a fundamental thing – that Serbian citizens as a litigator party should not be interested in this part. Of course, this law is to be passed, but Serbian citizens have nothing of this kind. I'll remind you that court fees are too high. Two years ago, they were raised about 50%. You today have a situation in Serbia where for some criminal responsibilities people go to jail for 1,000 dinars, to replace that one day. We are even informed through the media, and in practice it is heard that they prefer to go to work rather than pay 15,000 – 20,000 dinars. Now I'm asking you -- is any court fee of 15,000 and 20,000 dinars, when people want freedom to replace, because they're unable to pay anything, is it normal? I'm not saying that you're particularly guilty of this, but you're probably driven by a situation that's not really the best of status. Is there anything to be done in this direction, at least like this my way of proposing, if those fees have to be that big? This gives the impression that the courts in this area are becoming like five-star hotels. Those who have money can go into them, or who have no money, and those who have no money, can't dare to initiate and protect their basic right, which both under the Constitution and by all international standards and from time to time – that they can exercise their right in court. Why? Because there is a huge difference between the level of court taxis and the personal income of Serbian citizens. I don't think there's a man in this room, and I think you agree with all this. The other problem that is the greater problem, is that we have passed the law and that some private perpetrators will appear, but the biggest problem currently in courts, look at the statistics, these are executions, and we all know that. The biggest problem, among other things, is that in practice, in the field, I'll tell you very freely, the judges are kind of looking for punishment. When it used to be, in the old JNA, it says – it was transferred to punishment. No one in the execution of a judge goes with any pleasure, with some great desire. An even bigger problem is the constant circulation of judges, or those who are in the execution process. Do you know what it comes down to? At the end of the year, for example. You're asking the President of the Court to give you statistics on how much the judge will change from the last year to the execution. You know what that looks like? By the time he gets his schedule, he's got the items, it's April. When something starts to work, they come on vacation soon. After that, he waits, with the desire to end that calendar year, to eventually get out of execution. Believe me, I'm telling you well-intentioned. In my personal belief, there's a judge who's been executed, who has some results, who needs to stay for five, six, seven years. Come on, find a chance. We saw the other day with the judges of the constitutional courts that if there are unfilled or the horse, etc., I mean the number of judges, that they are rewarded. Give me a reward if you need 50% higher and judges and perpetrators, I don't mind, but that something is essentially done, because otherwise we'll be in a situation that in a few years there won't be a litigation either. There won't be any, but people won't be able to dare to conduct the procedure, it costs a lot of money. Well, in the end, although it's very expensive for people to somehow pay for all that, but the ultimate goal and execution is equal to one very small percentage, what's against the state, what's against the insurance houses, what's essentially to end up with some alignment, etc., something can end, otherwise one serious object in execution, believe it lasts and for years, it takes years. So my suggestion to you is that as much as you can in this part of the judge, the executioners who are the executive procedure, do not circulate the annual schedules as in other matter. You know, when you go from a lawsuit to a criminal trial or vice versa, that's where you're headed, that's where someone gets better or worse, but when you keep making changes here, that's the main problem. It's not just, I'm not saying you're responsible for it, it's been a problem for years, Minister. It was a problem in the back 15, 20 years, my wish is to point out something that, in practice, meets, something that must be bad and needs to be changed. Now a few words about this High Council, I will not enter into this situation, it seems to me that these decisions may be hasty, after all, there is some appeal procedure or the conduct of some administrative dispute, etc., but in general also at the High Council of the judiciary and before and at the State Council of Prosecutors, I pointed out that in these institutions, when it comes to judges, they should be those most experienced judges, those judges who have been through all matter, those judges who are over some period that are even close to retirement to being not just some, practically, reward for their life's work, for their good performance or some reward for their career, but also a huge experience that they can certainly have with great experience to properly influence their choice. Of course, there is also the State Council of Prosecutors that people with very little experience in practice make such important decisions and not only that, should not at such a time when someone starts to judge and be in the judiciary immediately go to such an instance, among other things, because it is necessary and energy, in the young judges who should generally carry a job. So, once again, I ask you, if you can in any way influence that in the executive business, not practically every year the change of judges that are set for the execution process is done than to do it on some period of the instrument, because it is certain that the judges where the judges were in the executive procedure for four, five years were better results than when you have permanent changes and circulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65224	Thank you. The word is Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65225	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, honourable government representatives, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will see to it that I sum up my presentation in two parts. First of all, I'd like to say a few words about the set of amendments and the addition of judicial laws. I wouldn't be too long on the metrics, it's said a lot by respected predecessors in their presentations, and then I would refer to something that really shouldn't be spoken of in a serious state like this, and that's what it is, I'm free to say about the interference of the irresponsible work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. As for a set of judicial laws, an analysis of changes and additions to these laws can be put into a legal and technical, material and legal context. We have heard a lot about the legal and technical and legal context of the respected predecessors and the Minister's lady has given an adequate explanation, and in my opinion it is the most important political context, because the law as a means of political will is, in fact, the nucleus of the functioning of a serious state, if interpreted and the bearers of political will are responsible. In our country, that's not the case. That is why we have the application of the delegated laws, so in Parliament we are making amendments to an invalid law. A few years ago, I was talking about it myself, so there's a double application of multiple regulations, which is in the area of criminal law, especially sensitive terrain. Every year at the end of December, we change criminal procedural laws, catching the last train to correct someone's negligence or perhaps even worse ignorance. I'm very sorry that we're discussing this with the current justice minister, because this is mainly about serious mistakes and serious negligence, so I'd say the ignorance of some previous ministers and some previous governments. I'm sorry we don't have protagonists here in the O.R., or protagonists of sympathy, complicity in that negligence I was talking about. Now I'd like to go back to something I've just called a little while ago that's been mixed up in the irresponsible work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. In a country that has lashed in corruption, the Anti-Corruption Agency is dealing with peripheral matters, and they are interested in how MPs spend their church called a parliamentary shower. They're looking for current account numbers and they're being abused without a judicial decision, instead of dealing with something that is a qualification of our entire system where the state is, and that's what I just qualified as a scarcity in corruption. Does the Anti-Corruption Agency do its job responsibly? I'm saying, no. Now a member of the High Council of Justice with triple legitimacy, according to my colleague, Judita Popovic, the Anti-Corruption Agency, said just before, replaces the abuse of a pre-exclusive deadline. To remind you, I listened carefully to the discussions of respected predecessors, no one looked back on the fact that the agency had never set foot in the matter, nor had it come to the conclusion that there was a conflict of interest. The agency did not even deal with what needs to be done, so to conclude that Professor Dimitrijevic later asked for consent and that a procedural error, i.e. a procedural flaw, was corrected during the procedure. It's an alphabet of procedure right and in any branch of law. What the agency was up to, I really don't know, I'd like to hear an explanation of why it is. So, again, she did not deal with the metrics, she did not make a solution in which the professor, in which the decision was made that there was a conflict of interest, as regards the functions of Professor Dimitrijevic, and nowhere did she deal with what her job was, what was her duty, to bring the correction of procedural errors into the context of the one she needed. Logically, the question is, what's behind it? Is this about bad intentions or is this about stupidity? If it is an evil intention, then some more painful questions are raised where the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency is just the tip of the iceberg. We can freely ask the question, is this agency working on the orders of someone in power or is the extended hand of some structures that in a very suspicious way under the grains trying to manage this state. If that's the case, then we're like a state, aside from all the other problems in another serious problem. If it's just nonsense, then I wouldn't qualify because stupidity has no definition, but there are countless examples. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65226	Thank you. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65227	For the last 25 minutes, I've been planning on using the criminal code to make it clear to the Vice President that he won't need to bring me back on the subject, because otherwise I'm talking about the subject. I want this reason that you are changing certain members, reminding the laws of an old problem for which you have previously shown, understanding but not the concrete understanding, so that you change something about it, and that I point to two, three things that are really terribly important in the procedures that are conducted under this code. We believe, for example, that the reasons for the justice and efficiency of the conduct of criminal proceedings, as well as the repression of crime which is ours, agree on all objectives, require that the damage to the right to appeal not only applies to emergency legal remedies without restriction only to decisions on the costs of the procedure, the property-law claim which is now the case. So, we tried to change your law with amendments to those essential things, like a colleague tried to speak for a moment, but so he has the right to appeal for a decision on guilt and punishment, not just something that is a matter of the same process. Why were we looking for this? Practice shows that in many cases when crimes have been committed against natural and legal persons, prosecutors tend to mitigate the qualifications of works and leave out of the indictment of certain parts and deeds, in order to literally reduce their own size of work and show greater urgency, i.e. the impact of the number of completed cases. They also do not declare complaints against decisions on the level of punishment for the same reasons. At the same time, judges also resort to similar practices and mitigate qualifications in the imposition of minimum and conditional penalties, simply to shorten the procedure and reduce the number of complaints and possible abolished judgments, and thus allow themselves as few of those minuses as possible in terms of abolished judgments but also to have that effect as measured by the number of completed cases. This all leads to the inaccessible wealth and ineffective criminal policy resulting in threatened security of citizens and the state leading to the rise of dangerous forms of crime. As an illustration of the catastrophic criminal policy and the ineffective judiciary, I can also cite the recent death of a police officer and the wounded of another citizen during the bank's robbery. Here, December 26th, you have a case - a murdered jeweller's worker, just because it happened at work, at its workplace. Turns out, the perpetrator is only 24 years old in one of these cases, has committed 26 crimes and has been convicted three times before and for robbery. There's a question of what kind of punishment it was if he's even on the loose instead of in prison. In many countries considered democratic, only one robbery and a similar act are imposed with a significant number of years, while bank robbers are free to walk in Serbia, are shot at police. Criminals with already thick files are only 20 years old. Unlike the legal system or the legal system in which the damaged has many rights and opportunities to influence the procedure, our law damaged a helpless observer of injustice and his own sense of sacrifice. The provisions of this law governing the plea agreement allow the trial to be completed before it is damaged and it finds out that it has begun. You know which provisions that is possible. We tried, you have other leads, and we are these fundamentally to introduce the right damaged to file a complaint in order to make the trial fairer, above all, towards the victims of crime, but also to affect crime control, and on the other hand, to reduce corruption in the judiciary. The right to fair compensation for damages, we have also dealt with this law, and we believe that this is one of the fundamental rights of damaged, especially the victims of crimes. So you can't erase someone's memory of pain and trauma, but one measure of justice that, through advertising a man's guilt and compensation, is something that needs to be realized in practice. It is of particular importance that such damage be judged as soon as possible and with at least the harassment and costs of the damaged. It's important to be done already during criminal proceedings. In practice, if the injured person is referred to a lawsuit, this means that the compensation will be achieved only with great patience, especially in the case of damages that are poorer, impaired health, if they are underage and old. We have very long litigation procedures, and you know that they are very often unable to initiate proceedings because of a lack of funds to pay a court fee. If such a procedure is to be initiated, the situation may not be limited to the fact that they are ordered to pay large costs of the procedure, which are further increased when they are not paid within the time limit and the damages are still due to be carried out in a long-term executive procedure. There are known cases in our practice that the injured are forced to charge the costs of the court's proceedings before they succeeded from the perpetrator of the crime to collect the damages. I have a personal experience like many others. This led to another crime committed against the victims by a state that was obliged to protect them from crime and to ensure a safe life, as the right to security is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution and all international legal acts. In addition to aiding victims of crime in the exercise of the right to a fair compensation, the quick verdict and collection of damages is a very effective means of preventing criminal acts, but not only when they are publicly interested in an act, so they put pressure on the authorities to do so. This should be a rule as far as possible regardless of the number of cases found, the reform we are dealing with and everything else. Contrary to the need to help victims of crime, courts, as a rule, in our practice, provide compensation for damages in criminal proceedings and necessarily refer to litigation without actually explaining the reasons for which they have found damages. There are sometimes reasons why it is impossible to resolve the issue in criminal proceedings, but there would really be great progress in that field if the court committed itself to explain the reasons he was unable to do so. In the present situation, when reasons are not cited such an unsettled decision, it is literally a dispute with the appeal, because it is practically the discretionary law of the court. I would conclude this area in general that the state literally does not have any mechanisms or any policy to protect victims of crime left to itself and the most frequent number of cases without any attention or help from the state. On the other hand, the Code of Criminal Procedure has many mechanisms to protect perpetrators of criminal acts and provide material and other help to them on the burden of the budget, thus burdening the victim of the crime committed against him as a taxpayer. That's why we had a proposal in these amendments that in the best interests of citizens, but also in the interest of humanity towards victims, it reacts in a way that we create conditions for the creation of more efficient mechanisms for which we could establish this protection. We also tried to repeat one question because I consider it extremely important, the Law on Criminal Procedure prescribed that the unaccountable perpetrators of criminal offences should be dismissed from the treatment and preservation of the court's decision if, on the basis of the opinion of the doctor, the need for treatment and preservation has ceased. Such a measure, according to the applicable law, is also applied to the perpetrators of the most serious crimes against life and body, which are advertised unaccountable because of permanent mental illness or mental disorder, which is unacceptable from the point of view of legal and medical science, and in practice leads to very serious consequences. It's a very common phenomenon that the defendants of severe murder, and you've provided them with the possibility of double rewards and compensation in this proposal for a supplement, advertise the unaccountable ones on the basis of the findings that they suffer from a permanent mental illness. Such perpetrators are released from treatment after a few years as cured. There is a legitimate question - how can this be done if someone has defined the permanent mental illness and is not known medical means and methods in which such a disease can be cured or cured, or literally it is not possible to improve the condition and so permanently to be released from treatment. With this and the practice that exists, it is obvious that the accused or not was so ill that he was either unaccountable or fired from treatment even though he was still ill and dangerous in the environment. Many criminals have thus avoided decades of imprisonment and in a few years they are at large, which is a mockery of justice and mockery of the victims of crime. It also happens very often and as a rule to commit a new crime again. Last time I talked about this, two days after I asked you to adopt such an amendment, there was a crime in Beocino where the returnee raped the girl. So I'll tell you again whenever I get a chance to make this right. It's too common news, sir, that the perpetrator of the crime has already been in psychiatric treatment for earlier acts. This phenomenon is causing great indignation to citizens and legitimate doubts about the judiciary and the arts and doctors who make proposals for the release from treatment. In particular, the fact is that most often the same doctors as witches declare someone unaccountable for permanent mental illness, and then after a few years, they give the impression that he was cured and suggest that he be released from treatment. This has become a practice because some judges trust art to doctors who work in a prison hospital who will later be asked for an opinion and a proposal to fire, which creates a very fertile soil for corruption. As we discussed the Law on Artists, we have already indicated that there are also employees from the Ministry of Justice involved. It's not hard to guess that anyone who can and is willing to pay well can spend a few years in prison instead of 40 years in a hospital. It is known that psychiatric skill is precisely because of cases like this, there was a black hole in the judiciary with unlimited possibilities of abuse and arbitraryness. And this time and this occasion, we have proposed to prevent the release of the perpetrators of murder or attempted murder, because these are the acts against life and the bodies for which a prison sentence can be imposed for more than ten years, since we find it absolutely unacceptable that such persons can be released. Given everything I've told you, as well as the enormous dissatisfaction of citizens and the consequences of this lack of law, I suggest that this be the last time I speak on this subject and that you really take advantage of the opportunity and legal opportunity to solve these and these cases now by accepting the amendments that we've given to this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65228	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, if we now went outside this assembly and met random passers-by and asked them if they needed reforms in the judiciary, they would certainly say they did. If new laws were to be passed, they would also say yes. If you thought well of me, you're wrong. They expect essentially different reforms, different changes. For two years now, you have been insisting that everything is great in judicial reform, and you know perfectly well that it is not and instead of being the third branch of government independent of anything, there is the impression that it is becoming a family enterprise, that it is becoming something that several families in Serbia will have an impact on. That's not good. The President of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Supreme Cassation Court is the only President who in V.D. condition. All other presidents of Serbia's courts, starting from basic to highest, not counting the Supreme Cassation Court are in V.D. The state, except for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. The courts, along with other competent authorities, need to secure the rule of law. If we have these systems of justice, then the question is, are they really doing it? The objective of each country is to ensure an independent and efficient judiciary, with the provision of a reasonable trial and equal access for all citizens, i.e. for all those who appear before the authorities of the judiciary. Is that so? Of course not. What remains in this system of justice that you have failed in the last two years, and a strategy has been adopted before this government was formed? It's not exactly clearly defined free legal aid. Here it is not considered free of charge in terms of non-payment, but how and in what way, when Serbian citizens have the right to address state authorities, particularly judicial authorities, so that they can be legally protected from very often long proceedings and disputes, where even the state on one side appears before courts. The problem in the judiciary is certainly a large number of corruption charges. You know this well, but when we say that a large number of charges at the expense of corruption in the justice system are in no way relevant and the SRS does not equate all the participants in the judicial proceedings, i.e. all judges like people who are prone to crime and corruption. Of course it's not like that. We also have an exceptional deal about expertise, security, responsibilities and everything else that should be adorned by the holders of judicial functions. That's exactly what we have, and there are others who are very different and who give up a lot of it. The new network of courts in two years, you keep defending that it's good, you've never objectively analyzed what it brings, whether it fixed the quality, and I'll be responsible to tell you that it didn't fix it, on the contrary, it just led to a worse situation. It happens that the judicial units won't come to the judges to judge from the court's seat. Those who are from that judicial unit would be eager to be there, but these others are not coming. The number of accumulated procedures continued to grow by about 200,000, although in the beginning, when you set up a new network it may have looked different, and now reached a million and 700 thousand, i.e. at the end of 2010, a million and 700 thousand were pending cases, and on June 30, 2011 millions and 900 thousand. So the new 200,000 pending cases increased during that period. Two years after the start of the reform, the network of courts is missing from the competent self-critics and yours, Madam Minister, and you have not yet solved the problem of several hundred unselected judges. On July 20th, when the first session of the Supreme Council of the judiciary was held, some 86 requirements were resolved, but then, in the next eight sessions, about 160. So 20 per session is settled. When do you think the job will be done? That's hard to assume now, because what you say as Minister of Justice, and what the President of the Supreme Cassation Court declares, no one can take seriously and true anymore. All the presidents will be elected by the end of 2011. Courts. It's not solved. It was said by the end of 2011, or at least, in January 2012, to be heard by all those who filed a complaint for not being re-elected or not admitted to court. I'm sure it won't be resolved until that time, and you can't convince anyone that what you're doing in judicial reform is good. In this way, very successfully for you, you said very successfully why you did not want to or wanted to comment on this decision regarding your resignation, Professor. Dimitrievich, because you're not in charge. Afterwards, regarding his resignation and the resignation of Judge Milimir Lukic, you said - it is not true that the amendments to the Law to the High Council of the judiciary were not the subject of consideration of the High Judiciary Council. He didn't just say that, he's in his resignation, and you didn't want to comment on what doesn't suit you and what humiliates your reforms. I mean, it doesn't humiliate at all, they are who they are. You didn't talk about it when he said that no record from the Supreme Council session of the judiciary exists, now, did you now be able to comment as minister of justice, which in the commissions, individual judges have one opinion, and later, when a decision is made in the Supreme Council of the judiciary, they have a second opinion, at the request of unselected judges, that's a different question now, but he says there are no changed circumstances. The judges are changing their decisions, which is why it's happening. We have no reason to stand up for Mr Lukic, because together with Nata Mesarevic, he has progressed and we are not getting into it at all. We're absolutely certain that he's telling the truth about the work of the High Judicial Council. Let's tell you more about the first composition of the High Council of the Judiciary, you know that in two attempts in this House, it was necessary to elect a representative of the Law Faculty, so it failed, and the High Council of the Judiciary made decisions as incomplete, as a furry body. In the end, Professor Dimitrijevic was elected in front of the Faculty of Law. The question is raised and it is known that at least six members should participate in the decision-making process by the High Council of the judiciary. The high council of the judiciary, to remind you, has 11 members in all. Very often, especially from the moment that Judge Blagoja Jaksic was arrested, there were often not six judges, or six members of the High Council of the judiciary who could take part in the decision-making process. Because you, and not only you, but also Bosko Ristic as chairman of the Assembly Committee, Nata Mesarevic, a representative of the Bar Association, also took part in making those decisions, even after the arrest of Judge Jaksic, left to make decisions with only five members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, so you see what the majority of you are and what those decisions are. You told Judge Lukic that he was not telling the truth when he said he was not in front of members of the High Council of the judiciary, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on High Court. Can such a man who does not speak the truth about this matter be involved in the resolution of fate and in the matter of requests for the resolution of those judges who have not been chosen and a number of other affairs and proceedings decided by the High Council of Justice? You've seen that in part of the budget, the High Council of the Judiciary decides. Can someone who's like that get that kind of intelligence? Does he guarantee, I don't say that, but you said he wasn't telling the truth. Can someone who is like this do such responsible and important jobs? I would suggest that you do so as a minister of justice, the affairs of the judicial administration carried out by the Justice Department are also monitoring the work of judges. Here I have to show you that this is about a valuable and hardworking family from the village of Urovac, which is a production business, and I don't want to tell you who they are because I'm not their lawyer, and they seem to support the Green Ring in the field of agriculture launched by the mayor of Gilas, and therefore there's even less reason why I'm talking about it, but as hard-working and honest people and people who have trouble collecting their claims, because the court won't decide a few years after that. Not only is this family, I have pointed out to you several times, and I would ask you as Minister of Justice, take care of it, to oversee the work of the judiciary, that especially in farmers whose position today is very difficult, the procedures on their claims are not resolved for a longer period of time, and that you would have to do so, in order for this government to swear that the agriculture sector is one of the sectors in which it is worth investing, where relatively fast funds can be recovered, but also the authorities of the judiciary to play their part in it. When you say that everything is well done in the justice system, here are a few indicators, and the best way to deny you is when we give you facts that are absolutely correct. According to the World Economic Forum, Serbia stands 128th in independence, out of 142 states. Until before the judicial reform, according to the previous 2008-2009 report, it was 106th place. With the reforms, we've gone back to 22 places. In these indicators, Slovenia ranks 68th, Croatia 99th, Albania at 101st, Bulgaria at 104th. We are worse off - Angola, Ecuador, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Haiti, Moldova and Venezuela. Let's compare a little with that. Those holders of judicial functions that we have the opportunity to choose in Serbia do not deserve to be compared to this. These are your facts. This power has replaced our entire judiciary, and that's why we have this situation. You're thus giving legitimacy and the next, so that they can do the same when they come to power. When the SRS exercises power, we will approach justice system reform because no one argues that is necessary, but then those who are the best will know clear criteria, not fog, as is your case. Not you personally, but in a government whose member of justice reform looks nothing like anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65230	The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65231	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, law students tend to learn that one of the features of civil law is that it is an undefined bar in the Republic of Serbia and that the rules of civil law are laid down in a large number of laws, and that, on the contrary, it is the criminal right of such a branch of the legal system that is codified and whose regulations are contained in two of the most important legal acts, in the Criminal Code, or in the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, the Republic of Serbia is no longer an example of such a legal system because we have an undefined criminal law. So the matter of criminal law is regulated by a whole series of laws. What is particularly problematic, these laws are obviously in mutual dissent, which has a very negative impact on the legal security of citizens, but also on the coherence in the conduct of competent state authorities, primarily courts, prosecutors and police. Mrs. Malovic, what I don't understand from the nomotechnical point of view are the following things. Among other things, you want to change the Code of Criminal Procedure. How do you do that? You're doing it with an act that's not a code, it's a law. As far as I know, an act is being changed by the same act. So, the code is changed by law, and you're changing the code by law. Otherwise, in our legal system, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Law on the National Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a single act is called the Law does not mean that it has more legal power than an act called the Law. In the Republic of Serbia, there is no such thing as France, so-called organic laws having more legal power than ordinary laws. So, the Code of Criminal Procedure is according to its legal power, only you call it a code, probably to give it greater social significance. But since you're calling it a code, then it would just be time for the law to be changed by law, not by law. What is also unclear, Mrs Malovic, is that you approach amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure not because you essentially want to amend and supplement the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure but because you want to amend the provisions, as you say, of certain special laws. However, the question arises why you did not directly approach the amendment of this law on the organisation of competent state authorities in the prevention of organised crime or war crimes, but you change these special laws by amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which actually refers to these special laws. It is one procedure in amending the law in the Republic of Serbia, which is not really common. I think there is no such example in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. So when the state wants to change some applicable law or bring it into line with some other law, it simply resorts to the application of the law. And you're changing the Code of Criminal Procedure to actually change the provisions of special laws. Indeed, such practice is quite unusual and I think there is no example in our legal system that it once seemed so. From a formal point of view, you know Mrs. Malovic, and the students at the law school know that there is that Latin sentiment that when the general law and the special laws are non-compliant, then the principle that special laws define general law provisions is applied. Right, Mr. Novakovic? Look how you and I get along. You're a good lawyer and you must remember that sentiment in Latin, right? So, "ex specialis derogat legions generals". Lex specialises with the Code of Criminal Procedure are the Law on State Authorities fighting organised crime, namely the organisation of state authorities in the fight against war crimes. These are special laws in relation to the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the event that there is a practical discrepancy between these special laws and the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to the principle of "lex specialis derogat legions of generals" the provisions of the special laws would apply. Because of all this, it was quite logical to change the provisions of the special laws, to keep the general law's solution in place, i.e. from the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, you've come to realize, I don't know who advised you, not to formally touch the provisions of the special laws, you're changing them by passing the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure that will apply to the regulations contained in these two special laws. Indeed an amazing legal procedure in law-making. From the point of view of the SRS, it is unacceptable that we have an undefined criminal justice system. That criminal-legal regulations change with such dynamics, I don't think there's an example in any well-organized state. There is a saying by a Roman lawyer that criminal law is constantly to be reformed: "Just crime semper reformandum est". But you've really taken that sentiment of his literally. I do not think there is a session of the Assembly, whether regular or extraordinary, when the National Assembly does not change the provisions of certain criminal laws, whether from the material part or from the procedural part. You will hardly find any more solid lawyer who can safely tell you what criminal code in Serbia applies and which criminal code applies. That's not good. You, by the provisions of criminal law, are intruding into the most vital good a citizen has. First of all, his freedom and then his property. From the point of view of that fact, the provisions of criminal law must indeed be changed in extreme urgency. However, it seems to me that the Serbian government and its assembly majority have made it easy to access the amendments to criminal laws, or criminal law, to be more specific, without having previously carried out an analysis of what is not essentially good in our criminal law system. Just because there is not one comprehensive and essential analysis, you partially approach amendments to criminal and legal regulations, which also burdens parties in a concrete criminal procedure, and puts great burden on the court, or judges. In that sense, I think that the legal system of the Republic of Serbia would have to go back to the classic principle applied in all well-organised states, which is that criminal law is codified. However, we have now begun to invent the authority of certain state authorities, rather than those of the state authorities that have been dealing with since the time of the world and the century. For the fight against crime, no matter what kind they are, or how social their weight is, there are courts. Let the courts deal with it. But you've torn up the court system, so you've got regular courts, and special courts, and you've ripped out public prosecutors, so there's regular public prosecutors, so there's one who's fighting organized crime, so there's one for war crimes, etc. Of course, it all leads to our legal system, when it comes to crimes or criminal law, being completely uneven. It is absolutely not good, above all, for the legal certainty of participants in criminal proceedings, and it is also not good for the courts themselves, or the public prosecutors, or the people in the police, because they are very often in the dilemmas that are in force at all and how the relevant regulation should be applied. There's Mr. Bosko Ristic, he's a prominent lawyer. Therefore, court practice cannot stand up in Serbia because criminal-legal regulations are constantly changing. And the case law, although formally not a source of law, is one important criterion on which decisions are made in all continental legal systems, and of course in the Republic of Serbia. As far as this case is concerned, Expensive of Dimitrievich, first of all, what's a fact, which is that you intend to be professor. Dmitryjevic discharge the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice based on what is said in this letter by the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, Mr Bosko Ristic, "on the basis of a notice from the Anti-Corruption Agency that Mr Predrag Dimitrijevic has completed his post by force of the law, because he has accepted another post without previously seeking the consent of the Anti-Corruption Agency". This means that there is still no metric solution from the Anti-Corruption Agency that is professor. Dimitrijevic in that so-called. the conflict of interest, but simply there is a notification, and these are two entirely different types of acts. So there's a notice from the Anti-Corruption Agency that he's a professor. Dimitrijevic stopped his post by law enforcement because he allegedly has two public functions at the same time. My personal opinion, and I express my opinion as a lawyer, is that it is not the same to function in a state body and to act as a dean of the Faculty of Law. It's just not the same type of public function. The university is not a state body and it is not an authority of the government, unlike the High Council of the Judiciary which it is. In that sense, it is also a problematic decision to be a professor. Dimitrijevic in conflict of interest. But even if it were in a conflict of interest, even if we were textbookly following the principles of legality and saying that the Anti-Corruption Agency did the right thing, although I think it is not and that this whole case is quite problematic, one other question is: Is it true that the place of Prof. Dimitrijevic, at the High Council of the judiciary, has to be vacant in order to place another professor, another law school in Serbia, Prof. Oliver Antic, candidate so-called. SNS? If that's the case, we Serbian radicals think it's a disaster. Why? Because a few days ago, and you too are certainly familiar with it, one of your former colleagues, Secretary of the Republic Vladimir Cvian, is now a prominent member of the so-called so-called so-called Republic. Progressive parties, said Joca Amsterdam is actually no criminal but a successful businessman who will take over the government tomorrow by order of the state to build a bridge wherever the state requires. If such people sit, that is, if their political representatives sit in the High Council of the judiciary, then, Mrs. Malovic, absolutely in Serbia from the judiciary, from legality, from the rule of law, will not remain a stone on the stone. The Serbian Radical Party believes it would be disastrous to have prof. Dimitrijevic changes from the High Council of the judiciary to free a seat for Oliver Antic, a man who once gave his most vital organs to Vojislav Seselj, and now gives them to Tomislav Nikolic. It's a man you absolutely cannot trust with a word and a man who simply by moral criteria is not an adequate personality and an adequate candidate for a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. In that sense, I think it would be good for the simple National Assembly, Government, Resolution Committees in the National Assembly and the Anti-Corruption Agency to coordinate their practice, to finally define what a public function is, is the public function whenever you perform a socially significant job or is a public function a state function? If the public function is a state function, then the function of the dean of the law school is not a public function in terms of state function, because the colleges are institutions within the meaning of the Law on Public Services, and they are not public authorities. So, this whole case is also legally problematic, and of course it's also problematic from a political point of view. Because, according to the information the Serbian Radical Party has, one place on the Supreme Council of the judiciary must be provided for a party representative who obviously blows into your neck, which, unfortunately, Serbian citizens, is worse than DS, because in their desire to give up their political pasts, they are ready to do certain things at the expense of the state and its citizens, which neither of you in the DS are ready to do, even if not publicly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65232	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. I apologize to Mr. Bosca Ristic, but we've cleared up a dilemma now. Mr Ristic is the promoter of one of the points of the agenda that are here in a single and joint search, and this is a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of a member of the High Council of the judiciary, and on the basis of Article 96, he has the right to report for the word and to receive a word like Mrs Malovic, who is the proposer of these other points, i.e. The law on changes and additions. Mr. Ristic, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's plenty of time to answer issues and to make it clear about the facts that are relevant for the debate on this matter, so it's not a beam that with a little delay, has explained this process situation of ours. I can agree with Mr Martinovic, who spoke earlier, and I think he made good arguments in the application of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which also has one contradiction in its content, contradiction, which is that according to the provisions of that law, one who does not report a function to which he is taking office within three days of his entry into office loses the right to perform that function, or that other function he entered ceases under the law. It must also be determined by an authority to make a decision, or decision, and the one concerned has the right to appeal, so it has the right to a administrative dispute. At the end of the agency, when all this is over, he proposes to the Assembly to make a decision on the termination of the post. If something stops by law enforcement, there is no debate about it, simply the law acts as soon as the case is set out by law. The whole procedure states that the meaning of the law is not that, after entering into office because of the not informing the agency, it is one obligation to know the order in the country and to monitor and record any public authority, the state authority, in this sense, the Anti-Corruption Agency, could assess whether these functions carried out by the institution in the same conflict and whether a citizen, i.e. a public function holder, has subordinated the public interest to the personal interest? There's no such explanation in the agency's report. Therefore, I can agree with my colleague who talked about it, that here is a legally very important and interesting case and that this case will certainly be the basis for establishing one practice and building a standard in the conduct of all state authorities. Personally as a citizen, as a lawyer and as an MP in the National Assembly, I respect the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and I myself have advocated the establishment of such an institution. I believe that it should build its capacities and that it is very important for the functioning of the public system. The same is true of the fact that as a MP and representative of citizens, I have the right to discuss everything that is relevant for the functioning of the state and its institutions. This debate is not a collapse of the agency's position as an institution, this is a simple relationship between two institutions, the relationship between the proposing agency, which reports, which assesses the work of state officials and the National Assembly that chooses them and resolves them. So the role of both institutions is very important. This public debate under the watchful attention of citizens is important for building a democratic system in Serbia and I thus understand this debate. The fact that we have some political differences, so we want to put ourselves or our own party, our political interest or political position through the topic, is legitimate in political life because it is a parliament and a political institution. As for the assumption that the High Council of the Judiciary was working in incomplete composition and that there is no quorum to decide on, it is simply not true. The High Council of the judiciary makes absolutely decisions in accordance with its Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the law and the Constitution. All members of the VSS are there under the Constitution and the law and are elected in a procedure that has all democratic standards and is recognised by everyone. A reform of the judiciary has been carried out that is very often identified with the general choice of judicial holders, which is only one segment of the judicial reform that will take place in the future. What I can say as a lawyer and a member of the VSS and as a citizen is that the conditions are created that the judiciary in Serbia can do effectively, legally, unburdened by corruption and judge within a reasonable period of time. I think the report during the first two years of the work of the judiciary after the general election and after the introduction of the new network of courts shows that with a smaller number of judicial functions we can work more efficiently. I can also say that in many courts in Serbia, trials run with a very fast and frequent appointment of hearings and debates. That's not the case somewhere. This suggests that some courts need to increase the number of perpetrators, select more judges and prosecutors. But in any case, judges and prosecutors with fewer perpetrators give better results. Earlier decisions end, mastering the inflow of objects is much better than before, and a very large number of old cases are resolved, so we relieve the judiciary of many things. Many institutes introduced into the Serbian judiciary, i.e. in the legal system, provide more effective work. The new institutes shall ensure that the perpetrators of the criminal offences being prosecuted are faster and that the plea agreement or the opportunity principle recognises that they have committed a criminal offence and, alternatively, within the justice system, the proceedings are resolved. This also shows that Serbia is ready to provide better access to justice, more effective justice, fair judiciary and professional people to do so through its institutions. I think it is clear to all of us, including those who use a pay phone in the Assembly to attack what the VSS is doing, the State Major Prosecutors, the competent committee of the Assembly, the Ministry of Justice and the Government in general, and in connection with judicial reform, are trying to reduce the importance of the results achieved, but it is an undisputed view of those who are expert in assessing the work of the judicial institutions in Serbia that progress has been made. This is also the report by the European Commission, which says that an enviable success in Serbia's judicial reform has been achieved and that a credible system has been created that guarantees that the shortcomings seen in the reform will be addressed in a real and democratic way. We are not running away from the fact that there are shortcomings and that they can be repaired, but I also remind you that there is a legal framework that has imposed certain solutions at a certain stage of judicial reform. Afterwards, with consultations, with agreement, with dialogue with professional associations, we created regulations and legal basis so that we can remove some mistakes and create the possibility for individual holders of judicial functions to return to the system. That's what it looks like. I have to underline that, too, the truth does, and that's also important because of those who are involved in the review process under the general selection decisions, that the commissions are exclusively sitting judges. The VSS and the day-to-day makes most of the judges in relation to the others. It's not true that there's any pressure, on either side, on a VSS decision. I would like to hear an example of pressure on a member of the VSS on how to vote on complaints, complaints or constitutional complaints from former judicial officials, i.e. holders of judicial functions in the general election process, and now in the decision-making process under appeal. I haven't heard of a single example. Of course, those who are dissatisfied, they have the right to seek reasons for their status. It is best to compare in an objective way the results of the work of some judicial function holders. And you know well, in the local environments, you hear from citizens, you hear from lawyers, you hear from parties in the process, that those who are best and chosen are. Those in whose work there were some doubts, where there were a lot of complaints which were justified, and the holders of the judicial functions themselves were involved in the proceedings under appeal, where it was found justified, they were in a position not to accept their objections. Twenty percent of the complaints processed have been respected, so these people, without delay, have been returned to the judicial system and they are now working together with colleagues who were elected during the first part of the decision-making process and have not lost any of their rights as holders of judicial functions. The truth is, I would like to say that the VSS works in the composition and in the manner prescribed by the Constitution and the law, it makes decisions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is incorrect that Mrs Nata Mesarovic, as president of the VSS and President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Mrs Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice and I, as chairman of the Justice Committee, do not participate in the work. We participate in the work, but we use the right not to plead in those cases where we decided in the first degree. Therefore, in this way we provide two-stage work in a specific way, because it is a single and unrepeated situation of the general election, which, when it ends in a real and democratic way, with respect for the procedure, the Constitution and all the standards that are part of our judicial system, I hope that, to the satisfaction of generality, we will all promote this judicial system together. I use this opportunity to invite you fellow critics, but very often you have constructive proposals, to engage and to build this judicial system together. We often call on you, but it is your political decision not to participate or cooperate with the authorities, at least in a public way. I respect that, but we also know that outside of these sessions that are publicly transmitted, we get suggestions that we very often take into account, when you point to good colleagues whose status needs to be reviewed and we bring it to the VSS. Believe me, every suggestion I got from your side, I bring it to the VSS. I have also made remarks to individual holders of judicial functions that I have received from your ranks, from your local community, that individual holders of judicial functions do not behave in a proper manner, that they have inappropriate contacts with parties in the process. I brought all these facts to the VSS and I brought out the sources. I'm not going to mention names here, but the colleagues who talked to me about certain judicial officials know what I'm talking about, and it's not correct to put it publicly, if it's a political stance that you don't participate and cooperate with the state authorities, but we cooperate in private, and these suggestions are presented to the VSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65234	Right on line, Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the lack of time, or because I appeared on the basis of a replica, I don't want to compromise with Mr. Ristic about judicial reform, because I don't expect someone who is one of the main creators of this reform to be critical of it now. I don't want to do that. I want to bring up a few problems that I've been talking about for a while. If the public function is all that a man does, then by that logic, it's the same whether you're the president of a state or you're the president of a tenant's congregation. Then it's all a public function. I think there are fundamental differences between those two categories. When a public function is said, then there is a certain quantum legal and political authority in the Syntagma. Being a college dean means being an elder of an institution. Faculty, children's kindergarten, elementary school, high school, social center, these are not public authorities, these are public services, or institutions. The public function is, in my personal opinion, what Mrs Malovic is doing, when you are a minister, or what we do to Bosko Ristic and me or you, Mr Novakovic, when we are MPs. It's a public function, and there's a part of the state government. When are you a dean of law school, what part of the state government do you have? None, no legislative, no judicial, no executive power. You're simply an elder of an institution. Let's say the Anti-Corruption Agency is right. Let's just say he did, and personally, I don't think he did, and this decision is related to the shift, Professor. Dimitrijevic is disputed from a legal point of view, but then the question arises, first, whether it is by chance that he is changing Prof. Dimitrijevic from VSS, and he was elected professor of law school to create a place for another professor of law school. That's one thing. I'm done. Is it by any chance that the dean of a state college is changing? I'm not going to mention his name on purpose because, as Cicero said, "The Nomin of the Sunto Diosa." You have one member of the Anti-Corruption Agency who has every day been minding everyone about how we should behave morally, how we have socially acceptable behavior, and who acts as the most common gigare, teaches at 10 universities, and at state schools, and in private and in Republika Srpska, and in Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65236	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65237	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, first few sentences concerning the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on judicial fees, which has only two members. It's one cosmetic change that we're changing one incomplete, vague, indistinguishable legal decree with one other that's also incomplete, vague and non-road and basically the same, except that we have two percent in what we're changing. For the sake of Serbian citizens, let me say that this is about article 51. The law on court fees, which states in paragraph 2, "60% will be used to improve the material position of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors, court staff and public prosecutors" etc. Now, according to this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Court Taxes, this 60% figure is divided into 40%, which is distributed for the current expenditures of courts, and 20% for improving the material position of court employees and public prosecutors, judicial staff and staff in the public prosecutor's office and says "other expenditures as investments, according to the law". Why is that incomplete? It is incomplete because there is no clear imperial norm to be ordered by the judicial authorities to obtain certain funds from the state. It is about means of return based on court fees, which must be directed for a clear purpose. Is there a clear purpose defined here? It's not. Why? It is said that 40% will be distributed for the current expenditures of courts and 20% to improve the material position of employees. That's one of the basics. The second is "other expenditure", and the third is "investment". In practice, this provision will be interpreted differently. One court and director in the courts will transfer all the funds that are received on this basis, this 20%, to profits, the other to investment, the third to public expenditures, and after a while we will have a disproportion. Every year, expenditures will increase, earn earnings in those judicial institutions that have received such an alternative solution, and then we will have a situation where a person doing the same job in one court will have 20, 30, 40% more income than that in another court. You see how you, with one legal norm incompletely, vaguely create conditions for individual workers to be discriminated against in practical implementation. More important is the situation I learned from individual representatives of the judicial authorities in Vojvodina, that in half of the tenth month, an internal letter from a certain judicial authority at a republican level, the possibility of paying out and obtaining material costs was denied. It is about the necessary items, which are necessary for the functioning and operation of judicial institutions and those institutions are prevented from obtaining material resources necessary for work, because this is not the State's going to pay. Always an excuse to the state. There's a finance department and someone in the government who's making it impossible. That's the situation in Vojvodina. It's very problematic from a political point of view. Why? Because it opens up another political dimension. The autonomists immediately knowing all of this are creating, you see, look what they're doing in Belgrade. They spend, they throw, and we don't have for the most basic expenses, and even for what it gets for a sanitary node, we don't have for it. You see how you bring irresponsible financial activities into the political sphere, creating attributes to political parties working to break Serbia. I will point very briefly here to the provisions of this Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, and before that I will ask the Minister of Justice Ms. Malovic. What is the fate of Milet Dakiæ? I'm twice here asking you a question. I didn't get any answers. It is a Serb arrested in BiH, delivered to the Republic of Croatia for alleged war crimes. On many occasions, his name was dragged through the media as a war criminal. It's about a man who has nothing to do with a war crime. The crime he is facing is a political qualification by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65238	Mr. Buha, I apologize. I have to get you back on the subject. These questions have passed today between 10 and 11. There was an opportunity. You have opportunities and in writing. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65239	I don't abuse. I'm just looking for an answer. I ask for an answer because in the context of principled debates and debates in particular, it raises a question. I didn't get any answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65240	I agree. The answers are related to a set of judicial laws and a decision to suspend the position of a member of the High Court. So these questions can be asked and answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65241	Thanks for the heads-up. I'll go back to one more thing, it's about the prosecution's work again. In the course of this year, Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor ex prime minister accused the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia, saying of indictments brought by the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia for genocide and crimes and war crimes. She called them stupid and illiterate. I have requested the answer of both the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other state institutions what have you done to such qualifications, to such insults by Croatian authorities? I got the answer, here's the very important thing to point out to the public for the answer, what I got. He says, the president of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, has consistently and continuously engaged in normalising relations with the Republic of Croatia, resulting in the intensifying of political dialogue, particularly the president of the two states, as well as direct parliamentary co-operation and co-operation between the two governments. I'm asking a question. How is it possible to develop good neighbourly co-operation, intensify political dialogue when the two countries are suing for genocide? Genocide is, to warn, the most difficult crime. Croatia did so with an appeal to the International Court of Justice in 1999. We countered the lawsuit last year, also found the crime committed against the Serb people in Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia, etc. How is it possible to develop dialogue if we are suing genocide? There's obviously a nebulosis and a schizophrenic situation here. Furthermore, in the agreement I get from the Government the next finding – that the willingness to strengthen good neighbourly and bilateral relations has been mutually confirmed in all realised meetings. How and how this is possible if the Republic of Croatia has recognised the so-called independent KIM. How can this develop good neighbourly and friendly bilateral relations? What is then further said in the response – looking at Jadranka Kosor's statements as a way to strengthen the position of the current government, especially the ruling HDZ, in December of this year. Croatia's sides are explicitly making it clear that the Republic of Serbia expects a correct relationship between political factors in the Republic of Croatia during the ongoing preparations for the election and avoidance of performances that would question the reputation of the Republic of Serbia and its officials. So, the Republic of Croatia is asked not to insult her anymore, it has offended her enough, etc. Where's the reciprocity? If they committed crimes, you recorded it, genocide, which is not disputed. Charges called stupid and illiterate, we keep it quiet. Where's diplomacy? Where there is, among other things, your prosecution, and you, as minister of justice, to fight back in the way in which it is reciprocated. If those charges are illiterate and stupid, then what are their charges? The 1549 indictment was delivered to you on the Croatian side. For Milet Dakic, a man who has received confirmation on your part and by the Croatian judiciary that no war crimes proceedings are being conducted against him. He's been arrested and now he's being tried for war crimes. How is that possible? But obviously that's possible with you, that's possible with the current government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65242	Mr. Buha, you're overly widely interpreting the subject of the agenda. I'm almost there, but I just got word from Vice President Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65243	Let's get back to the D.A.'s office. In the 11th month of this year, Croatia passed a law that put aside everything that went on in connection with the indictments, and by the judicial institutions of the former SFRY, military authorities and the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. What on the other hand did we do to have some countermeasure? Person 1549, and let me say a few tens of thousands of people were in the process before the judicial authorities in the Republic of Croatia. Why isn't the same method of reciprocity done on our side? It is also the responsibility of the President of the Assembly and of this Assembly, and of this Parliament. Why? When they're offended, they insult the dignity of these people. Imagine wearing the seal of a war crime? Why? For something that hasn't been done? If the Croats tell their citizens, we don't care, we don't want what came from the Serbian side, we won't process anything. Our citizens are innocent. So how can it be filed on our side of the suit, counter suit and say that the Croats committed genocide? Why are we inconsistencies? This is one schizophrenic situation that you have to get out of. The justice ministry is obliged to propose an adequate act in this parliament as proposed by the Croatian judicial authorities. And all indictees on the Serbian side are nothing. They're out of legal power. And then why is 1.549 active and in response you tell me that you will continue, I think about the judicial authorities, there will be a follow-up procedure for war crimes. How is that possible? And why don't you understand the situation that everything that came from the Croatian side is a political obstruction that wants to disable the physical return of Serbs there. The return of everything that belongs in national terms to Serbs from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. This is unacceptable for us, and we won't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65244	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65245	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a violation of article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but not by you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, but by Mr Novakovic, because of one selective and unequal application of the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Milorad Buha was talking about a case when one prominent intellectual from Republika Srpska's Krajina, magistrate Mile Dakic, was exposed to criminal persecution in Croatia. He found it appropriate to inform Mrs. Snezana Malovic about this, because we are just talking about criminal-legal matter, informing her about it and asking for information, because it is also extremely important for the application of applicable regulations in the Republic of Serbia, and also for all those Serbs originating in Republika Srpska, because they are obviously not guaranteed legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, it is permitted for the deputy president of the "Forward Joca Amsterdam" group to talk about everything and everything, at least on the agenda point and never on the president...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65246	Please, you can't do this, you can't insult your fellow MPs, you can't insult them. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: I am not insulting. ) Please, you really belong to a category of people that I highly appreciate as my fellow MP, but please, of course, what I'm saying will take away from time. No, it's not going to be your two minutes, but I'm really asking you not to put me in a position to impose sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65247	I must remind you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that one prominent member of the party said you weren't there when we talked about it, that Joca Amsterdam is not a criminal at all, but a successful businessman who will be making bridges tomorrow at the expense of the state. Since they represent his interests, it makes more sense for me to call them that, rather than "Forward Serbia", because they do nothing good for Serbia, they work for Jocu Amsterdam. As far as the selective application of the Rules of Procedure is concerned, it is really high time to end it, here someone can talk about macro-economic stability and the salaries of bank officials, and on the agenda is the amendment of the Law on Court Order, and Mr Milorad Buha as a People's MP and Prime Minister of Republika Srpska in persecution, when it comes to amendments and additions to criminal law, cannot ask the question – what about a man who is exposed to criminal law enforcement in Croatia. Mr. Milorad Buha is trying to tell you, Mrs. Malovic, that the fact that the Croats are giving you confirmation that someone is not being prosecuted or that no indictment has been filed does not mean anything, but that people are knowingly led astray, they are told – you are free, you can come to Croatia against you, you are not being prosecuted, a man comes and gets arrested.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65248	Mr. Martinovic, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The institution is asking government members the last Thursday of the month, twice a week, so on Tuesdays and Thursdays it is quite possible. A presentation of the individual sad truth, if so is Mr. Buha's question addressed to the minister of justice quite possibly and adequately in those time terms, and not today when we are discussing a particular and very specific topic. Since it's perfectly clear to me that you know that, I assume you won't be asking the Assembly to declare in the voting day whether there have been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Still, you will look, you have disappointed me, but it will be so. MP Mirko Munjic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65249	Ladies and gentlemen, the basic thing here is that Mrs Malovic cannot finish reforming the Serbian judiciary. She's worked so hard on the composition of this government, to this day, but also the proposals of these laws, which are now on the agenda, say she simply failed to do so. I believe that the relevant factors tomorrow when they influence the composition of another government, and we are clear that these relevant factors always affect the composition of one of your governments, should bear in mind that Mrs Malovic should re-indemnify this Ministry of Justice resolution in order to finish the job. You know, otherwise Mrs. Malovic would not have been remembered as someone who, along with her associates, participated in the full funeral of the Serbian judiciary and worked very hard all the time. The high council of the judiciary can't stop with the surprises. These shows by the VSS would not be worth so much attention to both the general public and this high home that it is not about an institution that is very important in this society, that it is not about the institution that proposes the choice of judges in this country, that it is not about an institution that decides by the objections of the unselected judges. So, a very important institution in the state of Serbia. Today's agenda, when it comes to the VSS, has been preceded by some very important and important things. First, the Anti-Corruption Agency, as we heard, found a year ago that a newly elected member of the VSS, Mr Predrag Dimitrijevic, did not ask the agency within the prescribed time limit for an opinion on whether it was in conflict of interest, so it concluded that, by law, it ceased its post as a member of the VSS. It was then found that the VSS on the availability of information violates the Law on the availability of information of public importance and does not provide the public with sufficient information on the insights relating to the review of these selection processes of re-elected judges. Wanted to achieve transparency in the work of the VSS. However, this transparency in work to this day does not exist. How far did it come with such a request? Will there be an opening for the press session of the VSS? Could the public know a little more how you work, how you make decisions etc, or perhaps the untouchability of Nate Mesarevic, the untouchability of Mrs Snezana Malović or Boška Ristić is absolute. Do you think it's just enough to be a dork and a dosed statement, e.g. a delivery of information, e.g. You think by delivering such information, you're solving everything. You should explain how you decided on the objections of unselected judges, particularly at the December 1st session, Mrs Malovic. How is the quorum secured? You should say something about it. You're going to say that there was a majority, right? Is that the legitimate majority? Is this the legitimate majority who participated in such a decision, and then you seem to be deciding on the objections of the 24 unselected judge. Is it the majority who can vote to make decisions? Let me remind you, there are rules, not as Mr. Ristic says right, that he used the right not to vote, so do you. There are rules that the unselected judges do not vote, or they cannot vote those who participated in 2009 to decide whether to elect or not to elect those judges. Those are the rules you've established for yourself, as far as I've seen. So, Ms. Nata Mesarevic, you, Bosko Ristic and Mr. Dejan Ćirić, were not involved in the vote. This could be seen from the means of information because I am simply talking about the public work needed for the work of the High Council of the judiciary. This results in the decision of the new members of the High Council of the judiciary who have been elected as a permanent body. They lack the arrested judge Blagoja Jaksic, as well as the judge who resigned, Milimir Lukic, whom we saw very serious indications that there were pressures regarding his work and decision-making, and now there is Professor Predrag Dimitrijevic, who, a year ago, was determined by the Agency that by the law's force, could not perform the office of the High Council of the Judiciary. What's the quorum now? Mrs. Malovic, do you know what the Society of Judges says to you, what does the professional judicial organisation say to you? Here, in order not to make a mistake, I will read their statement – if the highest officials do so to the public and when they decide on the rights of judges, then it is clear that a fair trial will be denied to other citizens of Serbia who, without legal knowledge and money, otherwise have less opportunities for legal protection. That's what the Society of Judges tells you. Furthermore, they say -- it's high time to stop the sundial of the law by the highest authority of the judiciary. I think you could have read this statement, that a man doesn't believe this is a statement from a professional judicial organization. What are we going to tell you, Mrs. Malovic? What will the opposition tell you? Does it suit you that, after all we've heard, we might be praising you? Now, if it is commendable to you that you, along with the other members of the High Council of the Judiciary, are the graves of the Serbian judiciary, let it be commendable to you if it is commendable to you. By doing this, Mrs Malovic, you from the High Council of the Judiciary are actually sending a message to the citizens of Serbia – we have given you the opportunity for a trial, such as a trial, we have not yet begun to bring judgment without a trial, we have started an inquisition yet, and we could. These are messages you send to Serbian citizens from the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. Gentlemen, every candidate who has not been elected has the right, inalienable right, to the full capacity of the bodies he is carrying out, which he decides, to the full capacity of the High Council of the Judiciary. Furthermore, the right to the public to work in deciding on the choice of judges, as a decision based on the objections of these judges who have not been elected, is something that should be the unimpeached right of each of these judges. Mrs. Malovic, do you know that the judge's institution is something that has been built for years? I'm sorry, isn't the state of Serbia so rich that you give up good judges overnight, that you give up good judges who have 30 and more years of work, that you simply wipe them out overnight with one pencil move, to wipe out their entire career just because they're not your party staff? So much for the High Judiciary Council. I'm going to look back on the amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Among other things, this changes the position of Article 2 of Article 604 relating to the legality of the actions taken for criminal offences which has been ordered to be handled by the prosecution of special jurisdiction. Mrs. Malovic, by which law will this be settled next case if it comes and should come to the agenda? I think it is well known that by order of the special prosecutor for organised crime, Miljko Radisavljevic, from a criminal report in connection with abuse in the purchase of vaccines against swine flu, eight names were left behind. We heard this from the mouth of Health Minister Ljubisa Milanovic. He says -- when I pointed out that the prosecutor returned the criminal charges, he denied it, so one of us is lying, let the authorities determine who, so let the responsible one be removed. Who's lying here? What are the consequences of this lie, Mrs. Malovic? Do you think an apology or maybe someone else's shift is enough for this kind of thing if there's serious evidence that someone is protecting someone from organized crime, from a dangerous organized crime? Mrs. Malovic, obviously you have no intention of facing organised crime seriously. On the contrary, give that kind of crime to the back not only for the past three and a half years...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65250	Mr. Munjic, I understand your need to communicate with the Minister on a variety of topics, and I am obliged to return you to the current topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65251	That's right, except you didn't read article 604. It's a bill of law. If it were, you'd see exactly if I were on the topic right now. The special prosecutor is returning the criminal charges to dorado. What everything in this country should go back to work before that criminal report, Mrs. Malovic, and who should come back. Unfortunately, some who decide on the fates of this people, who decide on the fates of Serbian citizens, indeed, would not be able to help in a comprehensive way because, I would say, this is a genetic problem, and there is hardly a cure, as well as in this judicial reform of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65252	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. You've got another 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65253	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I would like to draw your attention to this united debate, there are a lot of laws here, to be in the topic so you don't make a mistake again. First and foremost, you know, in Serbia, there's a secret to which someone passed the judicial exam. Do you know that? The procedure is being conducted to find out which commission Mrs Malovic passed the judicial exam. You don't know about that, Mrs. Malovic? They found some Srdjan Djordjevic, Predrag Stojanovic, Milena Petrovic, all from the index affair. That's for starters. Now let me start by amending the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office and regulating the courts. It's the same change, but now there's an expression of what you don't learn at school. What's up with the expression? Both laws were first published in Official Messenger number 116/08, and then amended 104/09, and then 101/10. I'm going to stop here, but in the light of the Ministry of the Brains' trust, it is being called to the Labour Classification Regulation and the criteria for describing the jobs of civil servants and tenants, which was published 95/10. So before you changed these two laws at the end of 2010, you had to have that regulation on the table. But what does the regulation have to do with the law? Someone changed the rules and that's why the law was changed? Please tell me where you learned that. This Bosko Ristić could not learn the code, say, Momocel Dimitrijevic, father of Predrag Dimitrijevic, our management professor. You couldn't learn that there, but this is where you push. What did you push through? You pushed for a budget for the judicial authorities to be a complex administrative act. In one part, the High Council of the judiciary works, and in another part of the Ministry of Justice. How is that possible, would you explain it to me? This is where you swear independence, independence and financial independence of the judiciary. You care about controlling, how much money there will be, how much work they'll get in court and the department that serves the D.A.'s office. Why? On what basis did you draw that conclusion? Yesterday you voted to amend and supplement the Constitutional Court Act, where you inserted special provisions as special provisions in relation to general rules on civil servants, deputies and their salaries and gave the Constitutional Court to do so on its own. Do you see how consistent you are? It's the most important change and it's necessary. If I were to further explain these diabolical views, Mrs Djukić – Dejanovic could probably take out the recipe and prescribe some things for you. Let's move on. You're changing the law on court fees. Let me remind you. I warned you earlier to throw that member out of the law, I think 51. It's a member who's supposed to be in the Budget Law, the Budgetary System Act. No, I don't. You made a part of the market economy out of the court, so 60% of the court's cabs remain in court, so now you've prescribed the purpose of these funds. It's a stupidity that the bigger one can't be. Court fees are public revenue and belong to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What are the court fees now? God forbid you have to sue someone. Can you please explain to me if he can pay a court fee to a man with an average salary in the Republic of Serbia? He can't. I'll tell you again -- the court fee is something that's brand, so stick to the lawsuit, and the office is stamped over that mark, and the value of that court tax mark should serve as proof that it's filed and that it represents a serious request. You've made budget income in customs-based incomes out of it. So if you want access to court to protect your rights and your interests, you have to be rich after this pro-European transformation of our judiciary. Of course, you get commendations from those who bombed us. Well, why shouldn't they praise you? Well, they installed you here. You're not here to do a good job. You're for this dirty business, to do the dirty work, and that's the end of the story. You guys do it all the time. The problem is, some still don't see it. But the fact that you change the same regulation seven times is always European. However, in a statement of compliance, we see that this has nothing to do with the EU. You'll get your hands on this in Brussels. How do you say that? You entered an area you couldn't solve, not you, but no one could solve it. Why? Because you violated the principle of continuity of the judge's office. You can roll the general selection, etc. It's not a re-election. You can play it by tomorrow. You can't get out of that circle. That's what you've got in mind. You have to eat that. Now, if you'll be comfortable, if it won't be pleasant, that's another thing. You have experienced a clear division within the judiciary in two parts – one part under the control of the parties in power, where the membership card or, not a membership card, because it can't be now, but favoring the authorities is a passing point in the judiciary, so what was not chosen is on a political scene where there is some perspective that they can do something, so they also found in the expectation of the results of the next elections, which you think you know in advance of what they will be, they won't be like that you expect. You're using Predrag Dimitrievich to make room for Oliver Antic. Everybody knows that. They also know nails near the Faculty of Law, as Bosko and all the sparrows in Nis know what a reform of the judiciary is, catastrophic. And you, Mr. Ristic, you know exactly those judges in Nis...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65254	Please don't address Mr. Ristic directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65255	But he's the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65256	You can't even talk to the promoter, but you are talking to Parliament and to me, or to the citizens of Serbia, which you love the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65257	Dear citizens of Serbia, I am very pleased to address you and to draw attention to you – the sparrows in Nis know which judges and prosecutors are favored by Bosca Ristic and his group. Bol, take care of Gilas, watch out, Gilas, you're in trouble, you're done for that bridge. But another group of sparrows knows what these unselected judges are, the retired judges, we know what we're talking about, who are fond of this other group and who have a representative in an office in Brussels. Is that right? That's right. Look at the timing of the deal. It's all clear. It's common knowledge. But of all that he will be a failure. You didn't paint for nothing. Why? You can't get out of this vicious circle. By the way, let me draw your attention, read the draft budget law, and you'll see on page 444, page 688, especially on page 444, that you still don't know what your transformed courts are called. You still use old names for courts. None of this reform has anything to do with it. There is no justice, and you can see for yourself that the court tax has become a very important factor for judges, for court officials, as you call them personnel, for renovation of buildings, etc., and people don't have money for taxes. Because of that big tax and the lawyers were denied some receipts, so if we get the dispute, when we charge, the lawyer will charge. I'm not talking about these garrisons, criminals. You know, not all offices can defend, there's only specialized offices for criminals. They make criminals a socially responsible man, who behaves socially socially, socially acceptable. He's able to build a bridge. You saw for yourself, a man confesses to a crime, enters a contractual relationship with the state to pay off what he stole in three wars. You put a bracelet on him, all neat. However, media say it is not moral. You put a bracelet on him, he's at the pool, Lazarus, Ken, the way it was. You know how much you need a bracelet? It's the largest production in Serbia. I would recommend friendlyly that you measure the size of the articles with members of the government and order the first round of bracelets immediately. You can order the first round, you won't do anything wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65258	Please, Mr. Krasic, don't insult the government. The government was chosen by this National Assembly, this high house. We have confidence in the government and don't degrade people who are doing extremely important work in these difficult times for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65259	I have no doubt that you have confidence in the government. I didn't even talk about that part. You trust the government, that's your right. You have reason to trust the government. I am not in a conflict of interest, I address citizens as future coalition partners of the SRS. They trust the SRS. I am in charge of criticising the government, not the government of the First May Street blacksmiths, but the government of the Republic of Serbia. When I was talking about the bracelet, I was thinking about the government members, not the government blacksmith. For the government of blacksmiths, it would be horseshoes. That's a big difference, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. No horseshoes, but measure the bracelets, because everything can become official secret. You see, a man conducts a procedure with the Department of Justice over the most basic thing when someone has passed the judicial exams before him. Is there anything simpler? The minister says - answer that man, I passed a judicial exam in front of the team and the team, and that year. No, the Ministry is making a solution where it is denied. It says - it's available, click on the Ministry team and you see everything. When you click on the Ministry team, all you see are pictures. What's that? Then someone says someone's with some godfather, then an affair index. It has to do with Kragujevac, because there was that saying when the bus from Kragujevac takes a break, and then the driver says – you can get out, who wants to smoke, who wants to go to the bathroom, who wants to go to the bathroom, and what you want to graduate, come to the Faculty of Law, you can take a degree, because this affair index opens our eyes because of Radmila Jovanovic Canić, the head of prison in Zabela, who said exactly three times. But you won't close that affair. You're just opening up some affairs. Let me just remind you, since this is about to end, I have no intention of repeating the personal composition of the High Council of the judiciary, especially about these permanent members. I finished that in 2008. I'm just glad that, in the insinuations of the need to deny what the SRS said, you're actually proving everything we've said. That's where I commend you. I've told you a million times, you've entered a vicious circle and you can't get out of that circle. You can't get out, remember. The fact that you want to take some taxes to pay the judges who sit at home, waiting for a solution, that's an even bigger mistake. I'm collecting documentation to conduct criminal proceedings against you when your term of office is over. Don't worry about it. I'm a grave misrepresentation. I remember all the evils that were done to the Serbian people, and I don't forgive them, that's what I have to tell you. It was easy for you to interpret some of our statements and some of our messages from this pay phone. We were always serious when we texted you. Always serious. Take care of what you do. Now you're in, for God's sake, what you're saying is, in a 16-year-old, and there are big problems. How are you going to solve this? I don't know. Are we going to settle this democratically? It's a bad show. Why? You have chosen members of the council through a democratic path. Is that right? (President: Time. Just finish it. Just one second. You have a democratic path of 126, but when it's down 126, so when it's divided into clumps, so when every clump starts to wear black underwear from a few years ago, then order a little more of those bracelets.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65260	Okay. The word has a representative of the minority parliamentary group, Mr. Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65261	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I consider the proposed additions to the Law on Regulating Courts, which are directed to specify the powers of the Supreme Council of the judiciary in the area of proposing certain budgetary positions concerning the scope and structure of the budgetary resources necessary for the current expenditure. It is likely that these supplements will also contribute to improving the position of court staff. Given that we are currently in the process of budgeting, I find it useful to point out that the problems of the Presevo Court of Auditors have, in terms of office space, and there is an excess in this former municipal court building and lack of the necessary equipment, which they missed all year round, and this is a problem that has not been solved precisely because of untimely budgetary planning during the previous year. I guess now's the time to make an effort to solve this problem. However, this court also has a problem with insufficient numbers of judges. Only two judges cannot handle cases for which more judges are required, with three judges, but in general, the usual court cases are in quite a number not resolved, again because of the problem, insufficient number of judges. I do not know how much these additions can affect the resolution of the problems arising from centralised reform, i.e. the problems still with the citizens of Presevo and Bujanovac, who must, not only for judicial proceedings, but for the provision of documents, and above all, apostols. That apostol is insecure again. It's got to be for every affirmation of the apostol to go to Vranje and it's gone all day. It's still over 50 kilometers away. Mrs. Malovic, you have so far explained on several occasions that a reduced court procedure can also be carried out in judicial units, but in Presevo, Bujanovac does not yet do so. These supplements do not provide for more effective application of minority language in court proceedings, so Albanian language is rarely used in civil cases, in judicial units. I've been involved in a procedure like this, and it's not working. You know, there's that problem. Whether or not there are enough court staff, and twice as many judges' jobs, then loses in the number of cases, and then, in some ways, the judges themselves suggestively influence that the proceedings only go in Serbian, because, in my assessment, there are still no necessary conditions. There is absolutely no application of bilingualism and the exercise of this constitutional and legal right that minorities can use their language in court proceedings. There are no translators for Albanian language in Vranj's Higher Court in Vranj. Of course, the problem with the exercise of this right of national minorities in court proceedings cannot be resolved, among other things, because of a small number of Albanian judges in the primary court, without talking about a higher court where there is no Albanian judge. When it is known that in the past year there has been no trainees of the Albanian and the Court of First Instance, and I am not talking about other judicial institutions where there have never been, then this situation is inadequate, unsustainable and will be preserved for how long. Because last year's competition was for the intern. Of the seven candidates, a candidate of Albanian nationality was accepted, and more than a year's work has not been completed. With that dynamic absolutely, if we don't have any Albanian interns, then how are we going to have judges next? I've taken the time to repeat my remarks that I've referred to so many times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65262	Thank you. I give the word to the minister, Mrs. Snezani Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65263	Thank you. Presidents-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a need to clarify certain issues that were raised during this discussion and to put forward some views concerning the provision of more laws that we have proposed for amendments and additions. First of all, I want to say that we are still firmly behind the implemented reform of the judiciary. At no point have we tried, nor was our intention and our desire to get out of judicial reform. On the contrary, I am proud of the results of the reforms carried out by the judiciary, especially if we have in mind that the persons who were the bearers of crime in the eyes of our citizens are on the maintenance of the prison sentence. There have been judicial verdicts for some after ten or 15 years of trial. I also think of Sreten Jocic, who is mentioned here in the debate, I think of Andrija Draskovic, but I also think of the initiated procedure for international trafficking, drug trafficking, where over four tonnes of cocaine has been seized or, more importantly, cocaine that is worth a billion and 200m euros in the Western European market. One part of that money is coming back to Serbia and was washed up through privatisation procedures, investing in some murky business, and that is enough to indicate how this government is fighting all those monsters she's faced with. Also, it was mentioned here and related to allegations in the media that have been reported in recent days, related to the initiation of a medical procedure. For the sake of the citizens of Serbia and the public, but also of the MPs I believe to be true, something that is primarily, which you care about first, I want to present to you the facts concerning the initiation of proceedings that have been initiated in the last three years only by the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime. Of course, a lot of other procedures have been initiated by regular prosecutors, but I think these facts will talk enough. In 2008, a trial against Mitrovica Slavoljub was initiated, where one of the defendants is a neurologist at VMA. The number of persons covered by this criminal procedure is 15. Physical persons have been damaged and the amount of damage or property benefit they have obtained is 4.150 euros. In 2009, a trial was initiated against Mojovic Goran and 31 others, including two specialists in psychiatry and the head of the clinic for VMA neuropsychiatry. The number of persons covered by this procedure is 32. The budget of the Republic of Serbia was damaged and the amount of damage or property benefit was 40 million dinars. The same year, the procedure against Šubarevic Vladan and seven persons, including the director of the Institute for Mother and Child, director of KBC "Bezhanijan Hair", KBC "Star", Home of Health "Palilu". The number of persons covered by the investigation is eight. The budget of the city of Belgrade and the KBC "Beige Hair" has been damaged. The damages, or property benefits, were obtained by 57 million 432 dinars and the property benefit of 48 million 219 dinars. In 2010, a procedure against Borovic Nenada and nine others was launched. The budget of the Republic of Serbia has been damaged and the amount of damage or property benefit that has been provided to 859m dinars and 91 000 euros. In 2011, a procedure was initiated and also continued proceedings against Borovic Nenad and another person. The Institute of Oncology and Radiology is damaged, the damage is a million and 929. Then, proceedings against Vukajlovic Svetlana were initiated. The number of persons covered by the procedure is three, now four. The Republic of Serbia's budget has been damaged and the damage is one million and 270m euros. When all of this that I have cited is crossed and calculated into the euro, it is 11mm 437m euros. This says enough how, through these concrete examples, the government of the Republic of Serbia is fighting corruption in health care, as well as in some other areas. Today I received information, and this was also published in the means of public information, that the procedure for an affair was continued in the public company Kolubara, that several people were arrested and that the amount of damage caused by these public procurements was 2m euros. These are the results of the judicial reform I spoke of earlier. As far as the remarks regarding the public work of the High Council of Justice are concerned, I'd like to say that just doesn't stand. In the process of reviewing, when it is decided on complaints, when unselected judges or prosecutors present their arguments, when called for a conversation, the public may attend, as well as the means of public information. The records are public. It corresponds to all requests of the Commissioner for Public Information, which speaks enough about the work of the High Council of the judiciary, as well as the State Council of Prosecutors. When it comes to the quorum and the participation of us who participated in the first session of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, it is simply not true that anywhere in the rules says that we do not participate in the work of these two bodies. I'd like anyone to show me, if they can, and I can assure you they can't, does it say anything? So it's not true, and it's a delusion that there are rules that say that we don't participate in the work. We participate in the work, we participate in the vote, and the way we vote is our personal position. We are authorized by both the Constitution and the law. As for Professor... Dimitrijevic, he is fully involved in the work of the High Council of the judiciary until this respected home makes a different decision. I am pleased to hear from some parliamentary groups that they are calling for statements and views of the Association of Judges of Serbia, because this is simply an evolutionary progress because we had the situation that in 1999 welcomed the decision of the then Supreme Court of Serbia on the abolition of the Association of Judges of Serbia as one, if I am not mistaken, of a terrorist organisation. But I'm also glad to see that's what they're calling themselves. Because the Society of Judges is a partner of the Ministry of Justice and we, in view of that position, will continue to cooperate with this professional association and with other professional associations. Unlike in 1999, when 13 judges are resolved only because members of the Serbian Society are now, in this time, such cases are unimaginable to happen. My position is always when we talk about the bill's proposals to be strictly adhered to, but since I was mentioned here, because of the citizens of Serbia, I want to point out that simply the incorrect facts regarding the passing of my judicial exam are incorrect. I passed the judicial exam in 2002, in front of the then committee formed by the minister of justice. The composition of the commission can't be a secret, because it was published at that time and on the Justice Department's website, and secondly, I don't see why it could cause some to suspect it's a secret. Since I have no more time and opportunity to do so today, if necessary, I will publicly read who were members of the then panel for passing judicial exams. I was one of the candidates, with thousands of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65264	Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or someone who has not used his or her right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly want a word? (No) I am concluding a common principle and uniform search. I thank Justice Minister Snezani Malovic and her associates. This concludes the morning part of our work. I'm setting a break of one hour. The work continues at 15 hours and 30 minutes, opening the debate according to the last, 16th point of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65265	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we begin our afternoon work with a single search of the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY COMMUNITY COMMUNITY OF WOMEN, PEACE AND SAFETY IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by the National MP Gordana Komic. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs by a proportion of the number of MPs of the MPs of the Parliament group, one hour 33 minutes and 36 seconds of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group is Dr Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3, but with Article 157(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision on the Commission's education to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for the implementation of UN Security Council 1325 - Women, Peace and Security in the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposing representative, MP Gordana Komic, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The fact that I formally propose a decision on the education of the Commission to monitor the implementation of the National Plan for the implementation of Resolution 1325 of the Security Council of the United Nations - Women, Peace and Security is really just that - since the decision ahead of us for the debate and for the subsequent adoption of the fruit of collective work, I am pleased to say, representatives of all or almost all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, from different aspects, from the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, the National MP Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljevic, through members of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Donka Banović and Milice Vojic-Markovic, through members of the PUPS Group, Mr Nikola Krpićitd, etc. I could name names with an accidental mistake to leave someone out, including MP Zlata Djeric and representatives of the Parliament club Forward Serbia. So, at some point for the last two years, representatives of almost all parliamentary groups participated in the debates, in dialogues, at seminars, at committee meetings, where they talked about how, how quickly and how effectively to involve more women in the security sector, that is, in the case of this decision, to ensure that the National Assembly has, according to the Constitution and follows, exclusive jurisdiction for the supervision and application of Resolution 1325, that is to say to write reports sent by Serbia to the Security Council, i.e. the future Commission to the Security Council of the United Nations, and under the provisions of Resolution 1325 – Women, peace and security. It is not little pleasure to be just the outcome of the collective effort of many of us who felt that this topic is important, that it deserves the attention of all of us, regardless of our differences in political ideas, ideologies, definitions, in everything that makes us different as political beings and members of different political parties. So it's no small thing to be the formal outcome of such collective work, and I am truly personally grateful to everyone who in any way participated in creating the atmosphere, and then by direct work to make today and today's debate possible. Maybe there's nothing, so to speak, more feminine or feminine to describe than what I've just shared with you, which is that by collective effort, we are willing to hear the other, to participate in the dialogue, that is, the outcome is one good decision for both women and men in our country and in our society. What is Resolution 1325 of the Security Council and where does it come from in our legal system? On 31 October 2000, the Security Council adopted a resolution with that name, which basically addressed the requirement to increase the first number of women participating in the United Nations Member States in the Security Sector, then to enable each of the countries, in each of the societies, or arrangements, by creating mechanisms and institutes in certain countries, to increase the participation of women in post-conflict societies, in governance, in stopping conflicts of different intensity across our planet. Unfortunately, there are at each point with a different historical pretext, with a different degree of crisis produced in the region where there are, but there are also mahogany, women are excluded from this process, by nature things, an insufficient number of women in places where decisions are normally made on the planet, especially in the security sector. The security sector is part of countries that women conquer in the end with a sector of financial power or economic power. When we started again with collective effort, and I'm talking about different women's movements, political parties, in one-party societies just as much as in several parties, when we started from the beginning of the century with a demand to be present in the places where we decide, no matter how difficult this struggle is, no matter how difficult it is in the way of winning the shared responsibility, women never wanted to share power, we wanted to share responsibility for what happens to us in society after decisions are made. So, however slow that fight was going, it was being conquered, apparently, by the sector of society. Something that was considered natural for women, it's social policy, childcare, care about the position of mother, maternity, then into the sector of work, then into the sector of culture or the media. So what they usually call in state-rights theories is soft sectors where women have the right to be visible, to show what they are capable of and to show that they are as capable as our fellow men, only we need a mechanism, which we need an institute, which we need legitimacy, in order to even show up at the decision-making sites. Somewhere in the end is this security sector. With little satisfaction, I must say that Serbia has entered into the creation of a National Action Plan for the implementation of Resolution 1325, that the only country where the National Action Plan has been brought into co-operation with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, MPs, different committees, the Ministry of Defence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and members of the non-governmental sector that are dealing with, as well as issues of greater openness of institutions in society, as well as issues of the security sector. During the past two years, how intensively worked on both the National Action Plan and the creation of institutes and mechanisms, we have reached today, after a decision and conclusion of the government made through the National Action Plan of November this year, that the political council and the cross-sectoral coordination body create material for the report, and that the future commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is considering and making a final report on the security sector in Serbia and sending it to the UN Security Council. In modern countries, especially EU countries, it is customary to so-called shadow reports on the same topic are real NGOs or institutes themselves saying they are dealing with it. It is absolutely certain that such a report on the state of security, on the presence of women in Serbia's security sector or at all on the number presence of women in different sectors, will also be present in our country. It is more satisfying that as a state of Serbia, we will also have an official report that will pass, I have no doubt, a very detailed review by future members of the UN Security Council's monitoring committee for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325. All committees involved in the proposal for a decision do not involve a woman as a representative of the commission, i.e. co-operation. Without joint work, without agreement between women and men, there can be no change for the position of a woman, or any female quality of life, or for the position of men in society, or, as they say, male quality of life. Committees from which the Committee will be educated, of course, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Defence and Security, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Labour and Social Policy, the judiciary and the administration and the formal and trustee for the protection of equality. On the committees of the National Assembly, once we adopt this decision, which, within the agreement of the Committee itself, will be decided to be a representative or representative of the committee on such a committee. What will be the theme of their work? What are the conclusions in the National Action Plan and what are themselves, in the way that many committees in the National Assembly do, by research, by working on the ground, by going to the local self-government, by going to the ministry, by going to the Ministry of Defence, to the Ministry of Defence, to the MUP, BIA, VOA, therefore, to collect data in order to make an objective, verifiable, accurate, accurate report on the sector of security, but from, as it is said in the books, gender perspectives, or, first, how many women in that sector in our country, is there a problem if a woman in Serbia wants to make a military career, a police career, whether there are problems to enroll in schools of that kind, whether they exist later, when it is finished, in the security sector only because she is a woman, because it is a sense of discrimination – when someone treats you differently than one of your property, just because you have all of women, as well as men, as well as women, who are equal to men, who are able to be. Discrimination can be against a man if someone treats someone differently just because he has some quality he didn't choose, but simply has it by birth. One small depression about what the number of women means and in the security sector, and otherwise. If we look at the past decade, about a century you can see the number that women are present at the places of decision and you can see exactly, we who know a little more mathematics and physics, we'll know what normal distribution or bell-ring guilt is, but that teaches us in elementary school and high school, that's the distribution by which two parameters form one bell-ring curve and by that bell-to-wall 5% of women you can't avoid whatever you're doing, even in societies where there are strict discriminatory regulations for women, some 5% will appear that you can't go around. When these 5% are made some kind of strategic agreement on changing the conditions in which they work, then decisions on mechanisms, institutes, committees, positive action, so in general, to hear the subject of why a woman has only 5% in a sector. Then, since it's a great difficulty to make 5% of the number that would make visible women in every society, you get to some number between 15% and 20%, depending on the years you look at that range, when you first notice that there are women in a sector in society at all, so until you see how committed, how responsible and how dedicated they are to public affairs. This is the current situation in Serbia. So you have about 20.46% of women at the Department of Defense, but there are 2.77% of them at the decision-making sites. There are currently slightly less than 25% of MPs here in the Assembly, not because there is a firm obligation to be us, but because it has become nature. It's great when you change models where there are women, men or any social group, when first you have a proposal on how to change and then, and without strong legal standards, something good happens. This is the moment when it is necessary to open up a new space for more capable women who can contribute to the development of parliamentaryism or the development of any sector in Serbia. So we decided here that in the next elections, after the 2012 elections, there would be at least 84 women in the new assembly. As much as that, I'd like you to imagine. That's what the Rules of Procedure calls a working quorum, so 84 but only women. It's my pleasure to imagine. I believe that it will be a pleasure for all others who in the next meeting have the opportunity to measure the will of Serbia's women to participate in political life, share responsibility and contribute to what needs to be Serbia's future development. That is the moment of the agreement on Resolution 1325. It is a great pleasure to be in a relatively small number of countries, and we are the 21st country that, through broad dialogue, has reached the National Action Plan and the Commission's proposal, which, according to the constitutional powers of the MPs, will finally draft a report on the situation in the security sector. This will mean a lot to the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, because as much as we know that much of what is thought of Serbia in the world is incorrect, it is a lot of what is said about Serbia in the world is a fruit of perception which is something that people do not fight against, we are witnesses in the domestic public. People don't care about the fact, they have some perception and they talk about what they want, they have an attitude, and it doesn't matter what it has to do with facts. It is in human nature, so it happens with a picture of Serbia in the world. You can check that from the speeches of many of us in this room, and otherwise in public life. So, the news that the National Assembly has decided that the commission will be formed will be good news for a good picture of Serbia, which considers it to have the capacity, will, and institutional, to deliver a report, and based on the work of the Commission to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan to the Security Council. Why is it still good to decide positively on this committee? It's good because research shows that there are two topics around which people who would otherwise never enter the same room, let alone move to the same table, let alone share any mutual views with arguments. These two topics are environmental protection. In this regard, you can gather people who share an institutional historical memory of continuous conflict, conflict, whether or not their origins are ethnic, cultural, simple historical. Excess history has created a barrier between communities, a group of people, or whatever you want. If you suggest they talk about environmental protection, they will gather in the same room and talk about it. The second topic is the position of women in society, representativeness, means the number of women visible in parliaments, in decision-making places, in governments, in the economy, as property owners, as someone whose voice is heard, regardless of what social layer they came from. These are two important things to exchange in dialogue, because we have a very long, unfortunately, list of different communities and ethnic conflicts and religious conflicts and whatever you want in the historical memory of pollution among the various communities that are in the region, and it would be good for us to discuss with this kind of mechanism, using a national action plan. Not doubting the final positive outcome of the vote, hoping for a good debate, dialogue and exchange of views in the end thanks once again to all those whose collective work, a joint effort has created this decision, which allows me to formally propose it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65267	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65268	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when the ruling coalition in the voting day decides to form this committee to monitor the implementation of a national action plan for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325, peace and security in the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2015, which is within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly and when in practice and when nothing is truly formed, nothing will change the situation in the country. In fact, nothing important will change women and will lead to any significant improvement. What makes me say that? This is just one form of satisfaction, and nothing else will essentially change. Women's safety is still very poor today and I hope that these and other attempts by which the Committee on Gender Equality and the adoption of laws imposed by the EU lead to women's situation being improved, not unless the state stands there and disappears behind the project. With these small aids and just some more declarative attitudes, there will be no significant improvement. As far as this resolution is concerned, Mrs. Komic spoke of it in detail. I will just say that it refers to women, peace and security and was adopted on 31 October 2000, and that the UN Secretary-General's report since 2004, calls on all member states to prepare national action plans for a more determined implementation of Resolution 1325. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 27(1) guarantees every right to personal freedom and security. Therefore, the primary task of the state is to ensure the protection of all citizens, i.e. the protection of their human rights. Protecting the fundamental freedoms of the individual is the basis from which all other forms of security should come. In a broader context, security is seen as individual security, or human security, so it is also possible to protect basic human rights, both men and women. In a narrow context, security implies the security of the state as an international entity, including the involvement of all its citizens, including women, in policy making, strategies and guidelines for action. With all this in mind, security should be considered as the basic preconditions of development. However, the facts do not speak. The fact that there are problems, that women and children in Serbia are not safe, regardless of the adoption of laws imposed by the EU, but these problems cannot be solved by this convention must be resolved by the state. Why is that? I'll only list some of the important problems that the SRS is talking about, which is that you haven't solved for four years, and these are the problems that women are facing. In addition to all efforts, 65% of the maternity salary is paid to women on maternity or maternity leave, except for two cities in Serbia. It would be quite logical and normal for women in that period when they are most vulnerable and vulnerable, when they have the greatest needs, to receive at least 100% of the salary. Then, during this period, there are many single mothers who raise their children themselves, and they are also socially, existentially seriously threatened but their safety is particularly threatened by their receiving very small and primary ones, let alone when they receive that maternity leave fee. Then, the law we adopted on discrimination is not fully respected in many large and small businesses women find it difficult to decide to give birth, and even when they stay pregnant and return from maternity leave very often these women return to jobs that do not belong to them, which are much below their professional readiness and even remove themselves from these jobs and send them to far more remote jobs. Unfortunately, in Serbia, greater rights than women have sexual minorities or even stray dogs. For these, it's more separate, and for these, there's a ruthless campaign, and there's huge support from the West. The latest indicators of the 2011 census say there are 380,000 fewer citizens in Serbia than in 2002. This was also suggested by the UN, which suggests that in 2050 there will be less than 5 million people in Serbia, and today there are just over 7 million people. The rate of natural growth in Serbia is increasing, so we are currently in 222 places from 231 countries. So, Serbia is by a negative natural proportion among the 10 last countries. All of this suggests that Serbian people, especially women and children, are very vulnerable and that these are the most sensitive groups that need special attention. The Serbian Radical Party warns that if such a trend, a negative natural growth continues, that at the end of this century, Serbs will at least be in the state of Serbia. These are just some of the problems we're facing, but we're afraid this commission, these problems won't be dealt with properly. In order to avoid confusion, the SRS is absolutely in favour of equality between both men and women and the law that gives equal opportunities and that everyone is equally available to. Also, the SRS is against every form of violence especially against women and children and this problem of violence is largely present in our country and it is even pointed out that around 70% of women experience some form of violence. Today in the world, every other woman suffers some form of violence by her partner, and each fifth victim is sexual violence or attempted act. In our country, the data is equally alarming, each third woman is a victim of physical violence in the family, while every other woman is a victim of psychological violence. As far as this National Action Plan is concerned, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted it on 23 September 2010, a document containing guidelines for implementing UN Security Council Resolution 1325. The national action plan for implementing the resolution provides for the construction of institutional mechanisms. First, a decision was made by the government of the Republic of Serbia on the education of the political council for the implementation of the National Action Plan on 13 October 2011. Then, a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia was made by the same decision on the education of a multi-sector coordination body to implement the National Action Plan. Also, October 13, 2011. And now before this assembly is the decision to educate the supervisory body to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for the implementation of Resolution 1325 and which is within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. The supervisory authority should form, i.e. it should consist of a committee whose representatives are the Committee on Gender Equality, then the Committee on Defence and Security, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Labour, the Boring and Social Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Administration, as well as the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. The question now arises – why is this commission proposed by a decision without it being regulated by the Law on the National Assembly or the Rules of Procedure on the National Assembly. The SRS thinks it would be better if this commission were passed by law, but what is a problem is that we pass the Constitution, and by law and by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly we have committees, but by the Constitution we have no committees. So this one decision is past the Constitution. Since 2003, committees have the authority and capacity of the proposing committees, so the committees propose a governor, members of various committees, trustees, etc. It's completely unconstitutional that someone thinks someone has the right to do what's past the law, it's not entirely true. So someone thinks decisions can be passed by law and that's right, but we think it's wrong. Now there's one question, is a commission like this necessary? It certainly takes one such body that will be one kind of control for the executive. But what is very important, in the education of this commission, and surely the ruling majority will also adopt it in this home, it is to be composed of representatives of the opposition regarding the relationship between the government and the opposition in this parliament. This is one of the conditions, and it should be a practice, because so far many commissions formed in this assembly did not have representatives of the opposition, and therefore the reports submitted to the National Assembly were not the most objective. The SRS believes that in Serbia, a broad field of both stronger and more determined and honest must be fought for both women and children's safety, so as to preserve the traditional Serbian family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65269	Thank you. The word is proposed by Mrs. Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65270	Thank you. Just a few comments and I thank you for all the objections and perspectives made on the draft decision. First of all, the decision was made on the basis of Article 107. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 150(1) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, of course, is the subject matter for the Constitutional Court whether someone assesses that it is in accordance with the Constitution or not. I don't think so, otherwise I wouldn't have signed that decision. Is it the law or the decision? I have to admit that at one stage, I and I were inclined to see if we could make some kind of majority or extend the time of the debate on the application of the National Action Plan, so we could talk about a law that would regulate the work of this commission. However, the first reason is that the deadlines of the National Action Plan are clear that by the end of 2011, the National Assembly should make a decision on the supervisory body. The second is that every time we make regulations and regulations, whether it's a decision or a law, it's a matter of reality. I don't mind that after the first report this commission will send to the Security Council, anyone suggests that we discuss and the legal framework that will be defined by its work. As for the commission, you mentioned that there are no commissions that have been formed so far, there is no good relationship between the opposition and the ruling majority. You'll correct me, of course. The only thing I could think of was the Commission to monitor the execution of criminal sanctions and the president of that commission is Vice President Judita Popovic of the opposition. It is also possible that some other committees have been formed, but if there is no good explanation why the relationship has been violated, then I agree that the Assembly should not form bodies that do not paint the composition, of course with the aim of carrying out the tasks that such bodies are given in power, regardless of whether they are committees or commissions. That is, therefore, procedural. What I would like to comment on in the context is your very legitimate or legal attitude, and that is often heard when a new body is proposed. Nothing's going to change, it's a pleasure form. This imposes EU laws on us, and women's safety is poor. When I hear and listen to such sentences, then I ask, "Well, if you don't want a commission, because it's not going to change anything, and then what do you want?" Do you want something to change, because if we don't do anything, then nothing will change. If we make an effort to form a commission of this kind of work that we're going to invest depends on what's going to change. Isn't contentment a form? That's certainly what I'm saying because that observation that the formation of an institute is just a form of satisfaction. Let's start with the first ones we've formed: the Committee for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy. All the remarks were, it's just form. You won't do anything about it. I think it's proof that we've formed a committee that works together with the government on a poverty reduction strategy that proves that it's not just a form. EU laws are imposed. In this assembly alone, in my last, fourth term, I voted in favour of just over 720 draft laws from different proposings. I have not voted for one because it imposes the EU, but because it changes for the better of any sector in our country. The story of "imposing ourselves to the law" is a story that is always put on, whatever change you suggest. You want safe traffic, we don't need that, it imposes EU law. You want police reform, we don't need it, it's imposed by the EU. You want copyright protection, we don't need it, it's imposed by those from the EU. It's a defense. Please understand this from my personal capacity, I have not voted for any law because it is imposed, but because it is not something that citizens in Serbia should use in some sector. Whether these laws are good, we can lead the debate, whether they are the best possible solutions, and about that we can lead the debate and there are a lot of arguments on the side of those who say they are not good, whether it is a good application of these laws, and about that you can lead the debate, but we will never agree on the position that the laws that are better regulated by the sectors are only because they are imposed by the EU, and we all want to have an orderly society. So, you, too, are making an extraordinary argument in your presentation about how much violence there is and I totally agree with you and I know exactly how much effort you have made as chairman of the Committee not only in the fight against violence in our society, but also in the subject for which little is known, and that is how much work you have invested in budgets, both national budgets and local ones, to see what benefit and whether there is any benefit to the citizens, whether men and women are more interested in the sectors for which women are concerned. It's one of the hard work of this committee that you're chairing. I can only hope that anyone in the next meeting who succeeds you will be able to repeat the results of this four year. So you and I are against violence in society. We need regulation that will delegate violence, say you can't beat anyone just because you're stronger and you need a campaign that will delegate you from the practice of violence, which will give everyone a message that you can't keep quiet in front of violence, that if you hear noise on the floor of your building, the broken glass is human, whether you help yourself or call the police, that you have to learn somehow to provide guidance to someone in the police, because he doesn't know the nature of things. What happens to the violence in which an adult son beats up a father or a husband beats up a woman or you both beat up a child? So we need regulation, and then you tell us about those regulations, the laws, the regulations -- that's what the EU is forcing us to do. No, we need that because the level of violence in society is too high and it's up to us to agree on what provisions will be. It's great to be an opposition if you have laws in front of you that have all the bad provisions, but it's bad to be an opposition who won't be in dialogue as much as and how and whether some provision is bad. Whether the safety of women or men in our society is bad, that's the subject of the report. You say there will be a form and then you describe the state of society in a sentence: women's safety is bad. Who's taking care of that? You'll say there are institutions. Where are they? Who are the institutions? How do they take care of that, which one controls? If we're going to have a dialogue on committees only, and you don't want the commission to deal with it, it's legitimate. What I would like to be one of the consequences of the debate on this committee is to deepen dialogue on how all of us can arrange for a better variety of sectors in our society, regardless of what our political attitudes and ideologies differ from. I was once at an international gathering asked what I could do as a suggestion to tell anyone, anywhere, in any region on the planet that suffers from deep ethnic conflicts of low or high intensity, who has a memory of hatred, impatience over decades and centuries ago, and all I could say is that in such a society, we need people, both women and men, who will decide freely not to deal with what grandfathers whose grandfather, father, grandfather, are going to do, rather than deal with how their children and grandchildren are going to do in 10, 20, 30 years from today. If you characterise such a proposal as being imposed from Europe, I hereby prove to you that making regulation and regulation, introducing, building the rule of law in Serbia and making a decision on what our future will look like has the most to do with us. EU assistance is welcome, both advisory and financial and each other, but the laws I vote for in this assembly vote for them because they change reality for better not only today but for the future. The application of these laws, I don't think I have to prove that I am the last to support or not any government, forgive that it does not follow the law well, and therefore the proposal for a decision to set up a Commission to monitor the competence of regaining power in the National Assembly. We are also your critics for the number of agencies that we have passed by law, the findings of these agencies that many of them stand and that dialogue serves, too, and I will be the first to say when someone is right, as I will be the first to defend my right to know what I am voting for and that you are wrong to impose anything on us. It's good for Serbia to talk to itself about its laws. So, as I believe every law and every government in its application is subject to control, so I also believe that voluntary denial of Parliament's power, by forming independent bodies, is a process that needs to be put under control. Why was I prone to the process of willingly giving up our powers? Because we know that people in Serbia do not trust the institution, politicians and hence decide to form regulatory bodies, agencies, independent bodies in good faith that they will do the job they are entrusted with. Since most of them work extraordinaryly, from the public defenders and the trustees of information to the auditors, not to order further, that one number that doesn't work should be our theme here but it is, again, back to your remarks, I listen very carefully to all MPs and I see that one perception of these independent bodies has arrived, as this commission will be, that they should work for the opposition. For all these independent bodies, I voted, three of the four most important, I worked on making these laws, so that this argument is imposed from the EU, as sweet and popular as it is, to create the will not to do anything on control and to be a popular sentence – it is not my job, that argument simply does not stand. So the commission that I propose this decision is based on collective efforts seems to me to be a good signal that parliament has the power to communicate with its goodwill, asking that those to whom power is transferred work professionally and that they are subject to supervision and that parliament will do exactly what you are making an observation, which is that nothing will change, will, after the first report that the satisfaction of the form is not but the beginning of a new site of view of security in Serbia and that, hopefully, together, will reduce the content of a sentence with which you fully agree that the security of women is bad, that the assessment of violence in our society is too great and that many of those whose job it is to reduce it, are not doing their job well. It's up to us to control them, to do better by working together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65271	I would like to thank Vice-President Gordani Komic, who submits a proposal for a decision on the Commission's education to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325, women, peace and security in the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65272	How much time do I have left? Six, seven minutes. I would like to respond to two important comments from Mrs. Comic, and it is my opinion that she is wrong. These are, firstly, the EU and the rules it adopts under EU directives. I don't think you can deny what the facts are. In every explanation of the law, it says that you are making this or that law according to the directives or EU estimates. On the other hand...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65273	I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to react because the public needs to know the truth. So it's about UN Security Council Resolution 1325.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65274	I answer to Mrs. Comic, not to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65275	Please, would you let me run the session? You can't talk in choir, we're still in parliament. I just want to draw attention to my dear colleague that this is not about any commitment, but about our insight into that the application of this resolution is in the interest of the topic in which you obviously, you colleagues, have entered, but just so you know, no one's request is. Our assessment that the implementation of this resolution in Serbia is a step forward in achieving women's rights to have both the obligation and the responsibility to participate in security issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65276	I only commented on what Gordana Komic commented. You haven't been there, unfortunately, so you're not in progress. I believe that the SRS openly advocates that we do not accept the laws under EU directives and that the SRS will never go to the EU and that the SRS will always fight the EU. That was our attitude, and I hope it stays still. On the other hand, Mrs. Comic said that I said that nothing would change. Within the framework of a committee consisting of representatives of several of these committees there are also representatives of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. I just wanted to ask the question - does the commission have to refer only to the Committee on Security or to the Committee on Gender Equality, which I think has done a lot to improve women's position? I don't know how much on this declaration, on this committee, however, I believe that the situation in the country is that, and that you have already proposed a Committee on Labour and Social Affairs here, however, the data standing, which is that more than 200,000 people, of which more than half of the women, are receiving social assistance. So the average salary is less than 320 euros. That makes women pay even less. Especially when they're on maternity leave. Those are questions, I don't know how you're going to make this committee, about women's safety. Why women's safety? Because you've made this committee have its own representative on this committee. So you have to solve these questions. How are you going to solve these questions? This government hasn't changed anything in four years. The promises were one in 2008, and now we see that after four years, we have over 50,000 users of folk cuisine, most of which are women and children. This resolution concerns especially women, but it also concerns children. On the other hand, we have a lot of inflation. This inflation is much bigger than all the countries in the environment, so, for example, in Greece, it is 4.7%, and we see the situation in Greece with this inflation and, for example, inflation in Serbia is over 10%, 10.3%. Then unemployment and poverty are very big problems, especially women and children. These problems are growing every day, they're not shrinking. They concern the safety of every woman and every child. Also, the condition of women is very bad. With this new budget that we need to make these days, we haven't seen much about improving women's health, especially children. The white plague is a problem that is attacking us more and more every day, but within this budget nothing has been done to bring funding measures that would in some way affect the education of women, the reduction of abortion, the improvement of birth control and everything that is very necessary. The Serbian Radical Party believes that both equality of women and the fight against violence and the security of women is very important, but that is one broad notion that cannot be solved in just one declarative way and we must face this problem, i.e. you as the Government to face, and we, the SRS, if we come to power after these elections, we have methods to address both the social opportunities in the country and the health situation and the security situation not only of women, children, but of all of us present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65277	The word is Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65278	Thank you, President. It is legitimate to be against European integration. It is legitimate and legal to claim that Serbia should not become an EU member. I didn't challenge that with any single word, nor will I deny it to anyone. Your right, your ideological attitude, your politics. What I have tried to explain to you, that the laws I vote for, I vote for them because they are good for Serbia and what I have tried to explain to you, that the way laws are passed, if you willingly accept to use European integration as a means, means an agreement with the EU, means an agreement that makes good for you. I can listen to the freedom of your political commitment – we will not enter the EU, let's break the process of European integration, but I hear nothing else. If you are really serious about this idea, then submit a request to put aside the resolution of 13 October 2004, which started the European integration process. If you're really serious, then you can't do a mythological dictionary, then you can't instead of one quite concrete idea, which flows into reality every day. You want healthy food, you want to make sure that all of us, as many of us as there are in Serbia, eat healthy food. What regulation will you use? How will Serbia be sure that what it gets really in content is written on the declaration? You want safe roads, you want traffic safety, you want the rule of law, then we need to make sure that what we offer people as rule of law is really a rule of law. If we want to put the EU in the face of what we have for emotional reasons, then we need to tell Serbian citizens for rational reasons what to do with economic co-operation, with an economic partnership with the EU. It's all about debate. I'm not going to argue with you, I'm glad to hear any argument that's not emotion. The Messengers of the people say, "They are pleased too. I don't doubt that at all. So we can use our emotions whenever our political nerve requires it, regardless of whether we talk to voters or try to exchange arguments here about a commission, but emotions don't help people who want to know that Serbia's future is guaranteed by the rule of law, a good economy, a stable environment that protects and improves and combats everything that we lack as a state to call society good administration. These are European integrations. Your position to be against is, I repeat, legitimate, but the paradox is that all that you have shared with me in your presentation is the subject of this committee's report: poverty, marginalisation, discrimination, different payments of women and men. That's what the commission is up against, because it's just a form. He can't do both. You don't know what the list of troubles women have. If I were to offer you a commission that would make a report and a proposal of measures and conclusions, what and who would do so that it would not be as bad as you describe it, which I agree with, and then you say, it is a form. He can't do both. You can't even say -- we're against the EU, and by being legitimate, I repeat, you're actually fulfilling the space of argument by not knowing about it and why we're for the EU. You don't care why I'm in. I wonder why you're against it. I'm listening to you, too. And you tell me, this is a list of bad things, bad contexts in which women and men live. I'm telling you -- here's the commission, here's the law, here's the joint work. You say - it's just a form. It's a flaw in our dialogue. It's a shame in common. You're not doing any good here, I'm not. That is why I believe that the dialogue we have had over the past two years on women's participation in the security sector is valuable. He made it possible for us to really hear and listen to each other. Serbia is changing. Our job on this committee is to closely monitor how these changes produce consequences on the life of a woman in Serbia, how safer it will be and how safer she will feel in a year from today, or to analyze how she felt and whether she felt safe a year earlier. So, you need questioning, talking to people to determine how many women in Serbia are afraid to let their child go to school in the morning because he lives in a neighborhood where there's not enough security. How many women in Serbia fear what? - How much does he have? - I don't know. That's all the things that this commission does, and that's why the committee you're talking about. There is no way that people together make a deal about the future, except that they listen to each other. It is my pleasure to listen to you and try to respond to every argument you have against forming a commission, or against a decision I have made as a result of collective effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65279	Thank you. Mrs. Paunovic, as an authorised representative, has two minutes left. You have complete time, 68 minutes and 24 seconds left. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65280	Why we are against the EU, that is our position and that is the ideology that has not been changed since 1991. It is not true that we do not have an alternative to the EU. We have an alternative, which is Russia, China, Asian countries, Serbia that has its own resources, its wealth, agriculture in particular. That is why we believe that we should also turn to our resources without importing everything and everything from the EU. What is worse, which the EU will not accept, imposes on us. On the other hand, what is very important and what is harmful is that Serbia is driven through the country and inserted and radioactive matter, a genetically modified soybean is inserted and everything that can damage the development and future of this Serbia. We are in favour of our children living in a healthy and free Serbia, and therefore we are also in favour of this commission and other laws that we have not voted for, and we have proven this because many of the laws that have been voted here have come to review, supplement, amend, and that has repeatedly been done. On the other hand, there are no reports here in the Assembly, there are reports of how many laws have been passed in these four years, but there are no reports of how many laws have been implemented or how many laws are applied in practice. Many laws remain only a dead letter on paper, which we speak of when we see that the law is bad. We always speak well-intentionedly, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. They're not our opinions that are just the opposite of yours. There is that, but we are primarily in favour of the good of Serbian citizens. That's why we think this commission should exist in some form, I didn't say it shouldn't exist. If you are collegiate and objective, you will form a commission to include opposition parties in that percentage as represented in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65281	Time. Mrs. Gordana Comic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65282	Consent for the composition of the commission and for representatives and representatives of the opposition. I think I've already said that, but I would like to reiterate the argument that the EU's 13 October 2004 EU accession resolution should be put out of effect and that something should happen with China, Russia, or whatever country you choose from a friend of Serbia, I have two arguments. If European integration is a means of changing to the better society you live in, in which you want to make good administration, to root out bad habits, above all, in administration and in various places where there is enough time to create bad habits. If you compare European integration as a means to achieve that goal, you will see that they give you a very easy answer to the question – who does what, how does, when he has to finish the job, how much it costs, and who will pay for it. For the idea that you have, which is beautiful, Serbia, and China, and Russia across the ocean and continents, there are no questions and answers. There is only a good desire to be in a society that would share its power with us. If you ask the economy in this country, then you see that their answer will be contrary and that they will say – the EU. But it's legitimate to dream. What's more, I think everything that happens in reality comes first. So I do not deny you any dream that Serbia, instead of being a full member of the EU, changed by European integration as a means, will be your proposed member of some other alliance of states. What it takes to turn the dream into reality is work. I am glad that very many people, first of all, of the population of Serbia, do not think about politicians and all others, have done very much that much that exists in Europe, in the EU, that now exists in Serbia. The countries you mentioned, then you must mention along with the parameters that describe the position of the woman, in Russia and China. These aren't the parameters they'd brag about. I am absolutely sure that you would not want Serbian women to live in the context of lack of rights or economic, or social, or their female people, as parameters in both Russia and China show. That is, I'm not saying that they too will not change for the better, on the contrary, of course they will change for the better and change for the better, by changing by means of European integration. Finally, certainly a member of the commission that I propose to be the one you propose would be my pleasure, indeed, to have you as the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, because I believe that the evidence of the work you have done as president is the best recommendation for the Commission as well. If it's worth anything, you have my vote on your board. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65283	Thank you. We move to work according to the schedule of MPs declared for the word in a single search for the 16th agenda decision proposal and I give the floor to MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Of course, you have 93 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65284	I'll use it all the time. Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable MPs and MPs, when it comes to the order of human rights issues, it is simply amazing that we cannot find agreement on this topic among parliamentary groups, but well, it is part of Serbia. I am proud to have been an MP for the period when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed such important laws concerning human rights, in particular the Law against Discrimination, then the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, the Protector of Citizens and the Trustee for Information of Public Meaning and the Protection of Data and Personality. Why the gender equality? Gender equality makes today an integral part of the human rights corps. The issue of gender equality is therefore one of the basic indicators of democracy in society. Because women do something over half the population, they also question development policy, social policy, which uses half of their human resources, does not plan its future in the right way. It can be said that gender equality helps the stability of society, contributes to tolerance, strengthens transparency, and introduces modern standards that bring us closer to international modern standards. Why not the law, but the decision? Because this is just one of the activities of the 2010-2015 action plan. Genders are not equal and should not be artificially equated, but must be equal and a stereotype of female and male roles, female and male occupations must be developed, especially today when new technologies are opening up more and more opportunities for equal work. Women and men are complementary and therefore, in an equal relationship and an honest partnership, they should build a society of the 21st century. It is very important that both women and men have equal chances in life, that they are equally treated, equally paid for the same work, are making equal progress in careers, have equal rights, choose their own path and manage their lives, equal rights of happiness. As for the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, all that I have seen in these activities done by the Belgrade Fund of Political Extraordinaryness, I would like to thank Mrs Sonja Licht, who has prepared a number of seminars on this topic, which is the reform part that the Ministry of Defence has just done. It was, in some sense, the proposer of this national action plan. Serbia has made a national action plan first among 20 countries. The government has done its part in a proper manner, political advice has been formed and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has remained to do its job. At the last public hearing and at the last meeting that was held in Zrenjanin, where there were about 15 MPs and MPs and representatives of NGOs, we agreed which committee should propose and what should be the composition of this commission. Of course, after the public hearing, there was also an agreement between one part of the opposition parties and the ruling parties on the formation of a commission that has one special task, and its task is to monitor the implementation of the national action plan and to submit a report once a year with a proposal for a measure to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What has been the practice shown in neighbouring countries, and what is important about the security sector, why does this issue give birth to security? There are only 4.9% of women in the military in BiH, 12% in Croatia, 7.2% in Serbia, in Hungary 19.6%. As for the police, there is a different situation, between 19% and 21% of women in police, 12.5% in Montenegro, 25% in Croatia. It's mostly in Estonia, 33.5%. I am proud to live in Serbia, today, which is probably at the very top of Europe by the degree of human rights. Something important has happened in our neighboring lands, and it is important to mention it today in the National Assembly. On 9 December 2011, the Austrian Parliament decided to change the Austrian anthem, just as regards gender equality. I wish this National Assembly could use natively sensitive language, to separate MPs from MPs, I don't think that's difficult. I get the impression that sometimes we get along quite well, when we're out of this room, and sometimes we try to introduce ourselves differently here or our bosses. I am proud to be a member of the DS, as I see that 80% of the parties in Serbia and 80% of the MPs have practically taken over the DS programme. All these principles we've been promoting for 21 years. It's very important, when it comes to human rights, that we have at least a similar agreement here. I cannot agree with the findings that we are doing this for the EU, because of the pressure and everything else. We do this to strengthen human rights in the country we live in. At the same time, for another reason, I am proud to be an MP in the Assembly where they are representatives of almost all national minorities and because the last budget was also voted by an Albanian national minority MP. That's something that's huge progress. Despite this throw, I will support the formation of a commission like this, and I hope that most MPs, I am convinced, will vote for something like this. This is important to change society, to continue through strengthening human rights. I think it's something we can all agree on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65285	I thank Mr. Milovanovic. I give my word to the MP Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65286	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, women in Serbia, make up 51.4% of the population, although in most of those in our society who are declared democratic, do not have an impact on the decision or in their business, provided they are employed, let alone the impact on the security sector. The role of women in decision-making in our country only reaches the capital or possibly the chieftain in the health sector, for example. while the executive posts are reserved almost for men only. The relationship between our society and the authorities, according to the role of women in decision-making, is also reflected in the composition of our government. There is also a declarative commitment to women's higher participation and political life through candidates for MPs and councilors, and that is, by the way, a legal obligation. But it's only about proposing, not about selecting national representatives in republican and municipal parliaments, not at least 50% of natural, as much as it should be. Our country, as a member of the UN, is obliged to adopt a national plan for the implementation of UN Resolution 1325, women, peace and security in the Republic of Serbia from 2000 to 2015. The UN SB resolution was adopted on 31 October 2000. It aims to include women in the country's security and inclusion process. In addition to this, two other accompanying resolutions were adopted, 1820, 1888, and 1889, which triggered a global debate on the role of women, about change and the very approach to security. The country's security issues have always been men's jobs. In this century, attitudes on this issue are changing in line with the general democratisation of the entire society. This is not a bad idea provided that women who are in a position to decide on security, global or local, listen only to their female intuition and a positive attitude towards society without conflict. But in practice, those women who decide on global peace or war followed male politics, probably proving themselves equal in that position. It's an example of Golda Meir, Madeline Olbray, Margaret Thatcher, Hillary Clinton, Angela Merkel, and not going into the past. These women cannot in any way be an example to those women who, in the future, will decide to be safe in the world. Golda Meir fought a war between the Israelis and the Palestinians, and about Madeleine Albright and not to speak, we all felt it on our skin during Serbia's bombing, and before that, the Republika Srpska. Margaret Thatcher fought Argentina for the Foklon Islands, while Hillary Clinton and Angela Merkel are already on the way to their male predecessors. The resolution also obliges Serbia to apply it and this is the proposal for a decision on the education of the monitoring and implementation committee. The commission should also consider regular reports and six-month reports on the work of the political council to implement the National Plan. According to this decision, the Commission is educated in the following composition: a representative of the Committee of the National Assembly, whose work is surrounded by a number of issues in the field of gender equality, a representative of the Committee of the National Assembly whose work is in the field of defence and internal affairs, a representative of the Committee of the National Assembly, a representative of the Committee of the Foreign Affairs, a representative of the National Assembly whose work and social policy issues, a representative of the Committee of the National Assembly, the issues of which are in the field of justice and state administration and a representative of trustees for the protection of equality. What does it mean that a commission is being educated without being offered its composition, we don't know who's going to be on that committee? The national plan provides for the education of the supervisory body to be followed by the implementation, or supervision of the implementation of this plan. You say in your explanation that no financial resources are needed in the 2012 budget, which means that members of the commission and the supervisory body will work voluntarily. An emergency procedure is proposed to allow its adoption before the end of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to be appointed as soon as possible by members of the commission and thus allow the commission to start working on time. Indeed, after 11 years of adopting the UN Security Council resolution, the commission should start working as soon as possible, that is, since 2004, at the recommendation of the UN Secretary-General. This is also inconclusive according to the contents of the resolution and according to the UN Security Council. It is much closer to the truth that you put this proposal on the agenda by emergency procedure, because it has been for a decade in some drawers, because the democratic government has been dealing with itself and coalition capacities for as long as possible in power. There are only three years left for women in Serbia to engage as planned, on the security plan, but you will obviously not be able to do so, but it will be the job of a more serious government, in which I hope you will not be.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65287	National MP, Vice President Gordana Comic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65288	I will be very pleased that the future government, as you recommend, is really seriously achieving all the backlogs and that the future government is responding to this commission in the way that the Commission's decision is prescribed, because this is not at all about any government, on the contrary, it's about the control body of the National Assembly. You have a good comment on the need to answer questions about composition and financial resources. It's the committees who decide. It has been stressed here several times, I will repeat, that it is necessary to make sure that the commission has representatives and opposition and the ruling majority. As far as financial resources are concerned, our committees also have in the budget of the Assembly the means for committee work and, if necessary, the funds for the work of committees and other working bodies, this is understood as being in the budget of the Assembly for the work of committees, working bodies and ad hoc bodies of the National Assembly. What I'm glad you shared with us is also the part that can immediately be in the report that this commission will be making, because you consider a security risk the fact that there are no female directors, that executive posts are for men. I fully agree that this could be a security risk, especially if it's companies where most of the workforce and that management layer to the board or director make women. I had a chance to listen to different views on how it could be a security risk and I listened to different arguments. And then and now I'm on your side. So more women in the leadership positions means greater security, greater sense of security in society. The composition of the government, and here I fully agree with you. It's totally inappropriate if you think about the government's composition only think about men. In order for any government to seem to have more women, we can see in some governments that were in Spain, which were in Portugal, Sweden, or Norway, and one government in Great Britain. Is that a guarantee that this government will work best? I think that the two of us will agree that it is not in itself, but it is better that in a government formed by one party or coalition, however, a simple majority who proposes that governmental composition, which proposes that not only men live in one society, but that they live in extremely capable women and that for various historical reasons they simply live, I will not say, is a harsh word, discriminated against for capable and strong women, who are in various sectors both in Serbia and in the world. It's not understood that you're looking at a data bank of capable women when you think what would best be for the minister's office. Is that a security risk to this committee? It is for the debate, therefore, for the future commission that we will form to see whether or not it is. What I also agree with you is the claim that security issues have always been reserved for men and that's the topic for this commission's report. Why is that so and what are the results? Is there anything to change about it? I think that the commission should be fully open to any kind of dialogue and that it is more important to discuss whether dialogue makes sense than whether it comes from a political or ideological context. It's a general lifestyle for me, I can't recommend it, but I have it and I think it's good. I wouldn't have it if I didn't. You have cited examples – women follow male politics and follow the male model when they reach the position of power. It's a very common example. Just, what can we forget? Let's forget the context where you look at Gold Meir. How many other prime ministers have there been since 180 countries in the world? When you mention Margaret Thatcher, how many other prime ministers did the UK have or how many were in the context and time in which she worked? You mention Angela Merkel, how many Chancellors did Germany have? I ask the MPs who know the answer to this question, to have the patience to listen to me. I will gladly learn from the MPs who think they know. I can't hear them loud as I speak, so I beg their patience. So if you're looking at a model and you say -- you shouldn't be a woman in politics, because you see these seven women. They act the same as men. Then it's an argument in favor of the request to be at least 30% of women, to be the wife of the director, to be a woman in the government, to be 84 here since the next summons the Assembly, to be in places where responsibility is shared. I think we fully agree there and that one such analysis, why you take the example of Golda Meir and in what way it is Golda Meir, or any of the women you mentioned from politics, such a bad example, is just in favor of the future debate to see how bad the prime ministers are, or the president in the same time frame was in relation to her one. She's so likely to have to be the prime minister of Margaret Thatcher, or Angela Merkel. The last thing you said and I don't agree with it, is the comment you make as a comment on the reasons why I submit the proposal for this decision, that, as for the past 10 years, it only takes care of itself and coalition capacities. Two inaccuracies were made in that observation. First, when it takes care of itself, then you do not publicly advocate things that are not popular, for things that everyone thinks can easily be adjudicated as an argument, which is – let us give the commission that will report on the role, the number, the participation of women in the sector of security and women in low-intensity conflicts, women in conflict management and post-conflict societies. No one can do it for themselves, because it is a subject that comes across a mildly said misunderstanding of the majority, because the power of a stereotype that exists on whose security sector is so great, that you need a lot of joint work to prove that the exact sentence is – we will not be able to do any power in the security sector, we will not even male models for women who will naturally have power. We want to share responsibility and increase the sense of security of each of us. Secondly, mentioning coalition capacities shows a lack of information about governments that Serbia has had since the restoration of multi-party in 1990, except for the government in 1990, and one that was minority. They were all coalition. Serbia will always have coalition governments. It's the nature of the electoral body. Mixing a view of how strategic coalitions are formed, or how coalitions are formed with a mission to make something good happen in society, with the motive for me to be as a formal, practically a proposing, to be the starting point of work of many is simply not a good enough argument. With most of the things you put forward, I agree that they will immediately enter the report and present a practical argument in favour of your vote when it comes to a commission that will monitor the application of Resolution 1325 in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65289	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65290	To remind ourselves, we are talking about a proposal for a decision on the education of the monitoring committee to implement the National Action Plan for the implementation of UN Security Council 1325 – Women, Peace and Security in the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2015. You were probably, when this item of the agenda was proposed, expecting something not to be discussed, that it would go like a nice story, a fairy tale, but this is much more serious and this really deserves to be paid attention to this, to talk about this, not only from the aspect that Mrs Comic was talking about here, but from the point of view of what was happening in Serbia and in the last 11 years, and also from the territory of the former Yugoslavia, given one of the points of this 1990 resolution here. Of course, I will point out at the outset that the SRS will fight and will always fight any kind of discrimination and violence. I must say, I have never experienced in my life being discriminated against as much as Mrs. Comic does when she presides in parliament. Until today, I was convinced that she was doing it because I'm a woman, so for some reason she can't stand women. However, when she talks so beautifully about women and women's rights today, then it became clear to me that she can't really stand me because I'm a member of the SRS and that she's discriminating me as an MP for the SRS. Now, of course, I wouldn't, you don't have to for the key, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanović, but we're talking about discrimination, we're talking about the position of the woman. If someone doesn't talk to me, like you just turned on your red buttons, so now you're going to distract me, here we've been listening from a representative... (President: it's good to see you need attention. No, I'm distracting you. We've just heard from the committee's proposing representatives a story wide and deep, I don't know how much. Of course, we in the SRS have nothing against it. We are truly fighting for every kind of equality and we always say that the MP can talk as much as he wants and about whatever he wants and that the MP only answers to voters in elections. It's nice that you accepted it today, but only as Mrs. Comic spoke. As soon as I'm on my way, you red buttons. It's not right and it's not in line with this resolution. I also want to point out that I have never seen so much legal violence in my life as I see it in this House, thanks to 126 buttons. These 126 carry out such legal violence, violations of the Constitution, trampling of the Constitution, disrespect for the resolutions of the assembly, disrespect for the law, the Rules of Procedure. Whatever comes to your mind, just to make a deal and rip it off with 126, you can do anything. This may not seem to have anything to do with this, but slowly, I'm just in the introduction, we have a lot of time, so we have to use time not to mind how the MPs sit and don't do their jobs. Of course, it was never possible to say that about Serbian radicals, because we are really doing our job as much as possible. Here we have heard, when it comes to these women's rights, a woman's right to happiness is mentioned. That's what I recorded, and I found it interesting. I don't know how there can be a woman's right to happiness and a man's right to happiness. Happiness and the right to happiness have nothing to do with sex. Why did fellow Milovanovic want to sound so nice what he was saying, I don't know. I did throw it when my colleague Milovanovic and Mrs. Komic spoke, I threw it away – wake up, let's talk about reality, to talk about what it really is. Mrs. Comic says she is proud to vote in favour, it seems to me 770 laws in parliament and says she did not vote in favour of those laws because they were passed by EU order. Of course, we know that at least 98% of these laws were passed because you had to, because you were ordered from the EU. Defend yourself as much as you want from it, that's a fact. It is not in the proposal for this decision, but in the proposal for each law is based on this and this EU directive. So you can't defend yourself from that, but that's not the point. It would be good if Mrs Comic told us, out of those 770 laws she voted proudly for, to list at least seven of whom Serbian citizens live better, at least seven who have opened up new jobs, raised salaries, reduced the cost of treatment, education, have brought a truly equal position for women with men. If you count those seven, then we'll be able to talk a little differently about Mrs. Comic, as she advocates dialogue, for parliament democracy, etc. So she mentioned the agencies and said she accepts a lot of the moments that we from the SRS have brought when we claimed it was unnecessary for Serbia to have agencies as para-state authorities. Of course, Mrs. Comic didn't say they were para-state authorities, she didn't say all the agencies, she said some agencies, and I say in the SRS we tell all the agencies are para-state authorities and we don't need them. But the question for Mrs. Comic, if she agrees that she does, said she would first raise her hand to remove some agencies, she said, and then it's only a question for Mrs. Comic, whether she would vote for a budget that has not abolished any of the only agencies. What year will it be that Mrs. Comic will vote to remove the agencies? When there is not a single dinar left in the state of Serbia, and the question is what we have left. If, as a promoter, Mrs. Comic truly advocates women's equality, then it would be good to, as someone in the ruling coalition, make a real effort, to do something to change the economic position of women in Serbia, which is disastrous. To ask Mrs. Komic, for example Miskovic, who has this big chain now sold it to Delez but until recently it was Miskovicev, a large chain of mini and maxi market, the largest number of employees in him are women. Have you ever asked him why these women work at the register for 14,000 to 16,000 dinars? Then how are they going to ask for some equality, can they out of that 16,000 if they make money, can they pay for a kindergarten, can they pay someone to help them with something in the house after they've been working all day? Can they in any way, can they deal with politics? Do they have time after that hard work for 16,000 dinars, plus what comes home, and first he has to see how he can make dinner and lunch for tomorrow, so he can keep the baby clean, cook, iron, wash and when he's going to do politics, Mrs. Comic? So you have to set up an economic relationship to include women in all segments of society. You're talking about how you stand for it, but that's all it sounds like when you talk about it, you know, and it's a little bit earlier than Mrs. Comic on stage. But Mrs. Comic, we've turned your attention here more than once. You are two years, when I say you mean the ruling coalition, and Mrs. Comic is part of the government. For two years, you've charged double contributions to women who have private jobs, so they've been on maternity leave. We've distracted you from here, but you don't care that you've put women in an unequal position and you're only changing it now, and we've been talking about it for two years. Why are you changing now? Because soon the election will take place, so it's gonna take those women hairdressers, salesgirls, I don't know what they all had, which all kinds of shops were at stake, and now they need to forget that they had to pay double contributions for two years, and in pregnancy, you're fighting a white plague as something. Yeah, but only on the witness list. Do you know, Mrs. Comic, that is, we regularly tell you from this place, but did you do something as part of the ruling coalition, let's say you tell Boris Tadic when he goes to the Kopalnik with the businessmen to draw attention to them so they can't discriminate against women. That no one can ask a young woman when she comes to hire if she's married, whether she's going to marry, whether she's going to give birth to children. It happens and it's a regular phenomenon. Here's the case from the neighborhood, and I know by chance and there are cases like that as many as you want, but I'll tell you the case. A woman works with a private and wants to report her and she honestly says she's pregnant. He says it all, works until you see your stomach, you'll be working on black, but you know I can't report you. It is a problem, and that kind of problem, Mrs. Comic, should be solved by you who are the government. We draw your attention and we try to help you through various amendments to various laws, but you won't hear it. You think now you're telling a nice story and everyone who listened to the session today says, "Oh, good for us, I don't know that I'm this good until Gordana Komic tells me." He knows how the people live, Mrs. Comic. You talked about it, about women in politics, how many there should be, what number, etc. Well, Mrs. Komic, we in the SRS don't have any female networks, youth organisations, etc., we're all members of the SRS. Many of us in the SRS, which is a party and party programme, have convinced that this is the best programme not only for women but for Serbia, for Serbian national interests, for economic development, in the social sphere, etc. That's how they should be attracted to politics. So we also have the wives of the vice president of the party, and of the Presidential College, and the presidents of the district committees of colleagues sitting here, the presidents of the municipal committees, the local committees, etc. But we've never chosen for the key, God forbid, but if a woman shows interest and the need to advocate implementing the policy of the SRS because realising that policy will make her and her family and the whole society better, then it's a success. And not for the sake of order, the keys are long gone, Mrs. Comic. It's from communist times, the keys determined who should be somewhere. Don't do that anymore, forget it, it really was a long time ago. Question, counterpart Dusanka Plecevic noted that only women in two Serbian cities who are on maternity leave receive full salary and others do not. We're offering you a law. Why didn't you accept to discuss the law? Why would women in Belgrade, children in Belgrade, be unemployed in Belgrade, why would they receive some donations, and in the rest of Serbia there is no grant? Why? Because you want to promote Gilas, so Gilas gets state money, and then Belgrade is paid three children a full salary for women in maternity care, a pension allowance is given in Belgrade. Of course we don't mind what it is in Belgrade but we are very opposed to why only in Belgrade. Imagine how you discriminate against your citizens, Mrs. Komic, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You underestimate the one from Black Grass, the one from the White Church, the one from Kosovo Mitrovica, and you force Belgrade. Why? Because you have an interest in forcing Gilas, the state money, and the one from Black Grass and the one from Somboro, all that money comes into the budget, and they're dividing from the budget. From these budget pairs, Gilas is getting money to discriminate against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and you are helping him, and here you are telling us about Resolution 1325. It would only be nice if in this way and if Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic had allowed what we have been asking her for months to discuss the problems in KIM, so we could discuss the importance of resolution 1244. Believe me, she's more important than this one. A lot. Of course, I don't think this one is insignificant either, but if we compare it, then it's really much more important. Mrs. Comic, another example, to show you that you are not consistent. You're talking one thing and the other is the other. Do you remember that in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the delegation of Serbia was the only one who did not have a woman represented within the parliamentary assembly. So we almost got us back. The question has been raised whether they will let us into the Council of Europe at all, because Micunovic did not allow one woman to be in the entire delegation. Who's to blame? You who are in power. You voted. You. You say, Mrs. Comic, that there should be more women's directors, so that's why we're standing by. We have advocated it since we were in power together with the Socialists to make Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic the director of the Clinical Centre and she was. Your Mrs. Comic came and threw out a woman and brought in a man. Do you have an explanation for that? Yes, you do. You've got crisis headquarters. Tell Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic how she was treated then and what happened to her when she didn't want to leave the Clinical Centre. How'd it go? It's not forgotten, Mrs. Comic. This resolution was made imagine October 31st, 2000, and you were born on October 5th. Now, after that, this happened with Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, but the question is, what have you been doing for 11 years? Why didn't you say 11 years ago that we had to form this committee and fight for some rights? You're waiting for the end of your term, now I'm going to show you how absurd this is. The commission's task is to look at the situation and monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for the implementation of Resolution 1325 of the Security Council, etc. Now how is this commission going to follow that? The term of office of a committee member appointed on a proposal from the Committee of the National Assembly shall continue until the end of the term of office of the National Assembly in which the MP has been elected. Isn't this funny, my people? Isn't this funny that we're discussing this today? First, today, that is, in two days you will vote for this decision, and then you will have some composition that the committees will determine the members of that committee, and then one day you will set up committees. Perhaps this is the last session of this parliamentary assembly, the last in a regular session, is certainly, the question is whether we will have an emergency or not. And then why are you bringing this in and why are we wasting our time today? So that you can advertise before the elections, that what you often say to us, that you can use that pay phone as a place for the stands. And that's what you're talking about. Don't talk about facts, you see, I tell you all the facts. Not a single word, past what's here. The government concluded a political council for the implementation of the National Action Plan. I'm reading what's written in the explanation here. When - October 13, 2011. So it took the government 11 years to reach this political council to implement the Action Plan. I have to point out that it would be better, the government did it on October 13th, if it had respected the resolution on KIM since July 31st, so that it respected the deadline for it to make a report by October 31st and deliver a proposal to the National Assembly, so that we could talk here about solving the problem at KIM, not dealing with what really doesn't have any effect. In fact, you're adopting something that can't live. No more of that parliament, or not now, Mrs. Comic will think I don't know, and then she'll jump and say yes. Yes, we are Parliament in this assembly, we are MPs in this assembly, the question is the day when elections will be called and will parliament work then? He won't. It won't be safe, and until the election is called, if that's what a number of MPs ask for... Now let me remind you what this resolution 1325 is, so that the citizens, first of all, know what we're talking about. That everything is not so beautiful and that it is not everything that Mrs. Komic represents. Resolution 1325 of the UN Security Council has launched or further encouraged many women and men around the world to talk in a different way about violence against women and children in wartime, but so on. peacetime conditions. Of course, there's violence not only against women and not just children, there's a lot of violence in this country, there's a paper full of black chronicles, daily unfortunately murder, in a drunken state, under the fact of drugs, fighting, fighting, etc. Of course, it's a problem that a serious state needs to pay serious attention to. You are here saying that in the Republic of Serbia, the legal institutional framework to combat violence against women is significantly surrounded by the adoption of a set of anti-discrimination laws, as well as the Law on Gender Equality, but this problem remains extremely pronounced, etc. These are the laws you had to pass, I don't know what you voted for them, Mrs. Komic, but you had to vote for the EU. The ones that are listed. But I ask you what we asked you when these laws were passed, whether these laws apply and what is better in this country by passing those laws. We support the need to find a solution, but you don't accept what we say through amendments, etc. The aim of this resolution is to increase women's participation in the decision-making process, preventing conflicts, etc., women are not only victims of war and violence but also play an active role as participants in conflicted parties as peacemakers, political activists, etc. Mrs. Komic, we need to mention some names in accordance with this resolution. Catherine Ashton, who is she, according to Boris Tadic, told me Kati, and Kathy came to hit him on the fingers and tell him to take care of KiM is a Kosovo state. And he's quiet. She told Kathy. Angela Merkel, who came here to sing and say you're not in the EU until you recognise Kosovo, and you say that's not true. Boris Tadic, when he did not win the candidacy on December 9th, said they spoke to me, I told them. It's like he was talking about Dad's field, so they told him, so he told them, he won't tell who, he won't tell who he was talking to. No, he was ordered by Angela Merkel. In the context of this resolution, and this just before-read attitude, as Serbian citizens say about Hillary Clinton, about Madeline Albright, about Carla Del Ponte. It is the image of world and European women. Is that supposed to be our role model? Women of blood, villains. Is that supposed to be something we need to talk about and what we need to keep going on in this business? So, about these women victims of war and those who played an active role in the war and I'm going to end this, I'm left with my Krasicbez time, I'm going to say, Azru Basic, woman. What's she famous for? Because she was bloodbathing in Logor Derventi Serbs, killing, slaughtering, cutting the cross on their foreheads. It's about this resolution, Mrs. Comic, and you're talking about colorful flowers here. It's because of her, because of Vesna Bosnian, that resolution was passed. Do you know what the Vesna Bosnian was doing? You know who Vesna Bosnian is? The doctor, who once took Hippokrit's oath, who trampled everything, who killed civilians in Vukovar, Serbian civilians, which was the worst possible way to torture civilians, what the Ustasha did in white coats as if they were hospital employees. They're the resolution we're discussing today, Mrs. Comic, not because you're talking about how long it takes for a woman to be somewhere, etc. Mrs. Comic, it is your duty while you are still in power to raise the true level, as you like to say, of the lives of not only women, of all citizens in Serbia. When everyone gets better, there'll be women, of course. You're not doing anything about it, you adopted a budget yesterday that will make them even more hungry. I guess we're the only country in the world that, instead of boasting about new production plants, boasts about new folk cuisines. Who's the most in those soup kitchens? Women who are over 50 years old and who are out of work because of your criminal privatisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65291	Proposer representative Mrs Gordana Komic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65292	Thank you. As usual, one part of your presentation can immediately be part of the report that the commission will make, because you have dedicated it to the difficult economic position of women in Serbia, poverty as a security factor in human security. It is in theory and practice so, so it is difficult to explain that you are against the commission when a third of your presentation goes into favour to produce a report, which, I quote, will require a change in the economic position of women in Serbia, because a woman who works for a little bit of money, 14,000 to 16,000, cleans, washes, cooks, irons, cannot be able to deal with politics. So it's also in security risk theory. It's no problem that we don't know things, dialogue serves to teach each other, the problem is when we're proud of our ignorance, and the particular problem is when we think that argument can end in rhetorical speech. That's what-- I ask, I answer. It is very effective in the Assembly debates, but little useful for the result of the dialogue. So, I would suggest a third of your speech to the members of the commission to form a report that will work after they get from the political council and between the sectoral coordination body because I have already said I cannot agree more than I already have that poverty is one of the security risks in the world and that is also in the theory of security, human security, and otherwise. You asked for laws that improved and you mentioned at least three. So you're talking about the law not to discriminate against a woman who is employed. This is the law we voted for, and this is a great example, and I am grateful that there is no argument that you have EU orders. I like listening to you. I know you don't like me, but I find it infinitely interesting to listen to you, because that dictionary -- you have a warrant, so you're traitors, so they order you, so they dictate to you, especially this passage that... There are various expressions, here, added by the MPs. That ancient mythological dictionary is interesting to me. It is never a reason for you to have the support of me as a result of your policy, but I find it interesting to listen, especially to the passages that, using various adjectives, should prove closeness with, say, the president of Serbia or to places where it is imagined to have been when Serbian President Boris Tadic spoke to anyone. That's sweet for a congregation debate, but it's not the subject of argument. So that's the question of style I'm not getting into at all. The issue of the economic situation in the country is I repeat, part of this report. You mentioned that law, I voted for it. I also voted in favour of laws that must be taken into account in the Labour Act. I also voted in favour of the Law on the Employment of Persons with Disabilities, on the criminal laws that introduce domestic violence as a criminal offence, on environmental protection laws. There's already more than seven. So you yourself have listed at least two good laws. It is your freedom to continue with that kind of style that it says - you have passed a law that prohibits discrimination in employment because it is ordered by the EU. That in itself hides the illogicality of me as a listener, but it does not in any way deny you the right to say it. You're saying the budget situation is proof there won't be any reports on the agency's work. I have to make both of us happy, and that's to make a mistake. Therefore, this assembly of the Assembly in the future will certainly require very detailed reports from both the government and the committees on the work of the agencies. I repeat, the agencies and the regulatory bodies this National Assembly has brought forward voluntarily by giving up the power given to it by the Constitution. I also said motive in the good faith that trust in institutions can be gained because of the general attitude of Serbian citizens about how they make decisions in politics. And you and I in this room know that, fortunately, that attitude negative about our home where we work together, it's not true, it's perception and it has nothing to do with facts, as we know the amendments are being adopted, as we know that more amendments to the opposition were adopted than amendments that any of the ruling majority bear, but it doesn't help if people have the perception that it's not good enough. It is an obligation to bring the law in good faith. I will always support it again and, I repeat, for no reason of the EU. The Commissioner for Information, the law, here, let me give you an example, the Free Access Act is something that one of your activists is extremely useful. So, he's looking for access to documents, he's got a law. Who voted for that law? Me, you didn't vote and don't vote, it's a political stance. I did not vote in favour of the Free Access Act in order for the EU to order me, but to have a visible SRS activist have a place to say -- here's the law, give me the contract, give me this information, give me that information. That's why I voted in favour of the Free Access Act, and I would vote again on the Civil Protection Act. So I have a series of examples to tell you when people benefit from the fact that there is a protector of citizens. Voted I, you are not and you are not, it is your political right, but it is my political right to tell you that there are laws that we can vote for together, it doesn't matter that you are the opposition, that we are the ruling majority, that is the parliamentary spirit, like I was the opposition, so I voted for the President of Parliament that I was an opposition to, because it's totally insane that we all vote for the vice presidents of the Assembly, and only 126 or most of them for the president of the Assembly. It's only when you think about it a little bit and turn your brain on that's something we need to change. Is that what the EU is pushing us to do? No, that's what I suggest, if you want, you will, if you don't, someday you will, much sooner than you think. What laws are bad in application? Many. That's the thing I repeat on the Committee on European Integration. Fortunately, there are colleagues from the Committee on European Integration, when I asked for what the Committee's job is, which is to explain to me why it proposes changes and additions, to analyse what is wrong with the basic proposal, no matter what law it was, whether it was the Committee on European Integration in which some of us are members together. I don't vote for those laws that command me Europe. I want to check how laws are applied, because we are in the process of building the rule of law, when law enforcement is a problem for various reasons, and when from bad habits and mentalities that mean that the rules don't have to apply equally to everyone, to petty and large corruption, so far up to the point of view – it doesn't matter and so far we don't have to apply, so we don't have to do it from now on. It's all work for the committees of the National Assembly. Is the budget theme connected to the agencies? People's MPs who don't know, I'm in the position of decision-makers right now. The promoter has unlimited time under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm sorry if what I'm saying doesn't hold your attention, but I hope you all feel that we all have equal rights when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. If you think that your political will of your political group is such that I need to determine whether or not I will use my rights in the Rules of Procedure, I will have to tell you that you will not be able to do so. The rules are the same for everyone and that's the practical answer to both the budget and the agency topic, currently in the budget, yes, they stayed. The debate that follows us is the debate on the work of the agency and will work in both January and February, and the reason why I don't mention the answer to the beginning of your presentation is because I deeply believe that this is not done. So your question about a kind of job that I've been entrusted with in the National Assembly is not a question for me the moment I've been entrusted with another job in this assembly. This is my position, and with you on whether or not there is discrimination in the National Assembly, I can only repeat the definition of discrimination. Discrimination is when you are denied your right, thanks to or because you have a quality that you cannot give up, which is innate to you. The only reason a woman is being discriminated against is because she's a woman when she's told she can't enter the security sector just because she's a woman. A man is being discriminated against when he's defending himself from having any right just because he's a man. Your reaction is proof that you're not interested in actually talking about discrimination. I'm surprised. You know, the amount of hypocrisy in response to my speech on discrimination is amazing, because your party president Vojislav Seselj, for my great pleasure in 2002, had an amendment to the Law on Elections, where he demanded the percentage of women on the lists. That's a great amendment. He had a great amendment and an excellent explanation. Part of the reasoning he gave in making amendments, I practically repeat, because he and I learned about discrimination from the same books, and I'm sorry that you're making fun of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65293	It seems to me that Mrs. Comić has made some of the dilemmas that were the cause, which may be for a replica, clear with her participation in the debate, so I ask, do you stay at the request of a replica, although there are formal grounds, Mr. Milovanovic? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65294	I use the right to reply, since the same situation has been repeated when we chose the Commission to monitor and enforce prison sanctions, where it is a Member, which is why I am proud to say the MP, Verica Radeta, also took me in my mouth in a rather offensive way. What's the difference between my party and yours? My party takes responsibility, fights actively against discrimination. Unlike you when you were in power in 1999, you passed one of the most discriminating laws in Serbia, the Information Act. The minister was from your party. That's when the media choked, shut down, and punished. It was a time when you took responsibility. The president of the state has taken responsibility for doing the work he is doing. Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas remembered and assumed responsibility and the idea of helping families. Why didn't the president of the Zemun municipality do it when you were in power? It is not enough just to make fun of and criticize, it is also necessary to propose, to give ideas, but to take responsibility for something. I personally think that when we talk informally, you have a completely different attitude. There's an int that follows your party, and that's likely to show up in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65295	The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65296	The People's MP, Verica Radeta, has never had a different relationship between colleagues in some informal conversations compared to this. I don't know why you need to repeat that more than once. I must note that Mrs. Comic, God forbid she presided over herself, that at least four warnings would have to tell herself, compared to how a woman normally presides. None of us who spoke to the SRS said we were against the formation of a commission like this. We were talking nonsense, nonsense, forming a committee of MPs that would be a few more months. There's no way that commission can do what she does. This is the way you work – you wait, you start and you do nothing. You were talking about the laws you claim to be fighting. I didn't ask you how good the laws are, but how much they really contributed to a better life in Serbia. You're talking about the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination of Women, and I asked you, "How can I answer my neighbor what the boss told her, do until your stomach is seen, then go home?" That's what I'm talking about, Mrs. Comic. You make laws because they order you. You say it's funny and you say it's nice, when we tell you they're ordering you from the EU. Not to order you, but to stand still. You have to act as they say. You don't think everyone sees it? Because of the EU's enough, Mrs Comic, we are both left without the EU and informally lost KIM, thanks to your courtship, you said that it is interesting for you to hear also traitors in your treasonous policy. Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65297	Time. He works for the public, just one piece of information. Formatting individual working bodies, type – Child Rights Working Groups who will be a child's rights committee. These commissions and their personal composition absolutely cannot be attached to this mandate, but it is something that will be transferred to the amanet, let me say, the parliamentary and the next convocation. So it doesn't start all personal with us and it doesn't end. Parliamentary dynamics and duration are something that is reality, Mrs. Radeta. Don't misinformation the citizens. (The Faith of Radeta: May I know if I can replicate it for you?) If I can't, then I'd like one minute from our time. You can't. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65298	I want to thank you, regardless of whether there will be more participants in the discussion for the debate so far, because it is important that we enter the dialogue with arguments. I regret to say that some of us don't care about the arguments. It is completely natural in the parliamentary life of Serbia and other parliaments. The truth is also a clear definition of the decision that lies ahead and which is under investigation, it is a decision to appoint the representatives of the committee. That decision will be in force as long as some assembly assembly does not put out of force. It's a simple fact. How much and how is the law we make, not because anyone orders us, but because we agree that the laws are good? Why don't we vote together for good laws? How difficult it is to monitor and control the application of the law, anyone who can look at objective facts about Serbia today, the kind of economic situation that is difficult for too many people. That's exactly why laws are passed. Advocating enmity and barriers, I can't, nor could I ever. I have opponents in politics, I have people who think ideologically differently, I don't have enemies in politics. I hope that I will stay in that I will never get them, and all those who think I'm an enemy in politics, which is why they feel they need impatience, I ask them to give up because we have far more important things to do than anyone else's personal, emotional attitude about any of us, so thank you. I will pay attention to the next participants in the debate, hoping for even better dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65299	Did I get it right, Mrs. Radeta, instead of Mrs. Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic? No, I don't. Then Mrs. Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic has a word. Sign up, please, if you want a word? (Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic: Mr Krasic has a word. ) Okay, MP Zoran Krasic has a word, 28 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65300	There's something suspicious about the number, but it doesn't matter. Let's get in line. We're talking about something that has to do with the UN SB Resolution. So it has nothing to do with the EU. You see, it wasn't hard to understand, it was just a matter of reading material. First thing. The second thing, I got the impression that it was such a significant topic, but there are no MPs, there are no these fighters for democracy, for equality, fighters against discrimination, escaped into some holes, there are numbers of money, as I see it. Seems a little hollow to me, this story. Some swear, etc., fled for democracy etc., but I know that the biggest problem of democratic Serbia is to elect a vice president of the DS, because it is a general conflict whether it should be two women or one. Whenever it comes down to one, Mrs. Komic hangs out. Now the election campaign is on its way... (President: I will ask you to respect my colleague, Komic, and to respect the colleagues sitting in the parliamentary benches as you do, regardless of which political option they belong. ) I respect Gordana Komic the most here, and I even have awe for her. (President: I know it, you do it in breaks truly, but verbally you do not show it and make an impression that does not correspond to the truth. I even have a large dose of awe that I tried to define as a mobing, so you gave me a warning, and now you say it as some respect. Of course I have respect. I have respect for all who participated in the elections, received mandates, unlike those who stole the mandates. I suppose that's clear to you, as he has great respect for political opponents who are defined. For LDP everything is clear, there are no problems, with DS one-third of the executive Democrats – clearly, what the resistance has taken is cloudy. Mrs. Comic is in that first group, right, Gordana? That's right. We can move on. When those dice came together, that election campaign started... They're running away from me, Gordana. Why did you send Gordana Komic away? Now you've ruined my whole concept. Imagine, and Gordana Comić came out, I'm simply offended, this is disrespect for me. (President: Continue, please, Gordana will return, do not worry. Nothing without my Gordan, to tell you the truth. There were some women, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, who voted from Bodrum, the DS, not to go any further. What is the purpose of this resolution? Just to increase the number, nothing more. Yeah, you didn't read well. You didn't read well again. Take care of your shoes and let me read it. So the purpose of this resolution is to increase the number of women who will participate actively in this area. That's what it says in the text of the resolution itself. So, participation, or representation of women. What are the areas? Peace, security, not defense. When something like that is written in some resolution, there's something that's text, there's something that's reading, there's something that's interpretation and there's what's most important, it's background. What's the background? Let's let it go, let it end. How do we do that? Churchill's commission. And then out of ignorance comes the variant that, let's say, Angela Merkel, even though she's a woman, acts like a man in politics. That's not true. There is no male and female behavior in politics, but there is ideology. A man representing ideology and a woman representing the same ideology have predictable political behaviour. That's right, let's say, completely clear DS. Does a man, does a woman represent that policy, it doesn't matter. It's politics - cabbage watching, meat practicing. So one thought, one story, the third one works. Whether it was Boris Tadic, whether it was Jelena Trivan, whether it was my Hope, my Gordana or my Milan, the same devil, that's the matrix, that's the ideology. Discrimination is something else, but let's not talk about it. Is there a legal basis for making this decision? Since, as the most punished MP, I need to know the Rules of Procedure, I am telling you that there is no such thing. Why isn't there? Read Article 68. Rules of Procedure. So you can form a survey committee or commission. Legally, there's no difference in business, there's just a difference in the name. Come on, tell me. Would you like to make a survey board for this? No, you wouldn't. Would you make a commission for this? You will, because the word committee is better, and everything else is the same. What's to be done? To look at the situation in a particular area. What is this area? Explain to me, please. What is this area? The area of resolution is here, but it is not a constitutional area defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What does it say next? National strategy. How can a national strategy be an area? Some questions can be an area, not a national strategy. It says – to look at the situation in a particular area. Catastrophic condition, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. The resolution was adopted in 2000. It was only a year ago that the government came up with some kind of strategy. For ten years, they didn't care about women and the security sector, but that doesn't mean the resolution wasn't applied. The resolution was applied in the most brutal way. NATO's pact has introduced Snow White Markovic-Samardzic to be the defence minister's assistant. Advantage – he knows the Norwegian language, and Norway was an extension between the NATO Pact and our army. Now we have Tanja Misčević. So, a woman. That's the point, to increase the number, participate, to get them involved in the security sector, and they got involved. We also have during Kostunica's government, we had a police general's wife. Please don't talk about Serbia so black, aman. You think the more you spit on Serbia, the bigger the money will come from abroad. There isn't, and there's trouble for money. It's worn out, brothers. There isn't. And that's where the lack of property hit her. You guys don't add any stuff here. What else could be done? It says – this commission would follow, determine the facts, we don't know which, about certain phenomena or events. What would be the phenomena and events in the area of the national strategy, please explain to me? Doesn't that seem a little diabolical to you? (President: Action Plan. () What is the Action Plan? You don't know what it is? Now I'll explain to you what the Action Plan is. Action plan is when a group of people sit down and write a program. And where's their legal basis? He's gone. And why should the congregation deal with a program that has no legal basis in the Constitution or in some law? That's the main point. There's no area for this... (President: Mr. Krasic, you're still misinforming the citizens and I'm going to have to interrupt you. You can't interrupt my exposure to your choice. Stick to the Rules of Procedure. If anything, at least formally, hold it in your hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65301	Since you're misinformed citizens, I just want to remind both MPs and citizens that we're based on article 107. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 150(1) of our Rules of Procedure adopted a decision on the training of the Commission for the monitoring and implementation of the National Action Plan for the application of the Resolution. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65302	We didn't make that decision. When did we get it?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65303	Please, the Assembly has come forward on this agenda point. Don't say we're breaking the Rules of Procedure or the Constitution because that's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65304	You can't interrupt me when I tell you to break the Constitution. Why are you interrupting me? You think you can do anything from that place. You can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65305	You can't tell a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65306	Who are you to say is it true or not true? Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure that you are the cantar of truth?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65307	Don't yell.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65308	You can't interrupt me. You'll get a warning from me. What kind of way is that to interrupt me? Why didn't you interrupt her?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65309	Don't say there's no constitutional basis and no business opportunities.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65310	There isn't. Let me explain why there isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65311	Then make an argument as to why there isn't, don't tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65312	And you listen to the argument a little bit. Article 107. The Constitution says the National Assembly can make some decisions. Where is the constitutional basis for this very decision? Article 68. The Rules of Procedure are a fundamental legal norm for this decision. What follows is that it monitors phenomena and events and determines facts in certain areas. What is the area of national strategy? What national strategy? The government gathered and reached a conclusion on December 23rd 2010, counting on some other obligations with regard to the UN Security Council. Out of nearly 200 UN member states, only 21 have done something about it. What about the 170? Is it possible that we are, like, 22, the smartest in a 190 or 200-nation group? Why didn't they do it? Because they didn't interpret it that way, but each state has defined in proportion to its constitution which authority would be responsible for implementing this resolution. Well, then, whatever it takes from that resolution to the law, it goes into the law. What's supposed to be good practice, gets into good practice. What should be the recommendation, enters the recommendation. Then the government decides who's going to take care of these things. Not here. We're on our way to EPP propaganda, and now let's go, let's keep the stands here. Apparently, someone's for a greater women's rights, and these dirty and sneaky radicals are for discrimination. On what grounds did you conclude that we were for discrimination? Based on the fact that we disagree politically with your views? So that's the only reason and nothing else. Then how well did you organize yourself so you wrote here, imagine now one thing, in that national strategy this commission of yours should be a supervisory body. How is it possible to comply with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia? How can it be the Supervisory Board for some things that are not regulated by law, something that is the working body of the National Assembly? Where's that shiny mind that could come up with that? So the government wrote some strategy, adopted in conclusion. Watch out. It's not a regulation, it's not a rule, it's nothing. In conclusion. What's written in the conclusion? A national strategy is being adopted. The national strategy has become a source of law. How is that possible? She can only be a guideline for activity. And they wrote -- that committee, that commission that we're making -- which will be led by Mrs. Comic, that will be the supervisory board for everyone, and that will serve as a ID to the SB as we fulfill some obligation. Please. Not to tell you about these dates that may not be so important, when this is brought, why it's being brought, etc., etc. What is taken as a bright example? There was a board, I think it was called the fight against poverty. Since we created the Committee on Combating Poverty, poverty has increased in Serbia. Tadic no longer has a folk office, now he opens folk kitchens. It's these hooks, political tricks and political games. Now, before the elections, of course, it is not a problem that Gordana Paunovic is the best president of the Equality Committee. Now it's no longer a problem for Mrs Radeta to sign a third of everything she said, any Democrats can sign it. It's not possible! And when did you cost us our warnings? Kicked out of the O.R.? Carrying her out? For these same regulations. That's when we were primitively simple. In the absence of argument, something like – we do nothing under pressure, we do it because we want to. Because 126 people have perceptions. What's your perception, let him go to hell. Someone earlier called for a resolution adopted by the National Assembly on October 13, 2004. From that resolution, someone concluded that all parties in Serbia are for the EU. Where does that say there? Under what conditions has this resolution been passed? Under a very clear view that a compromise has been reached in the Republic of Serbia. If the EU thinks it cannot survive without Serbia, here, we accept that we are EU members and overnight we will pass 2,300 laws in English, one vote, but that the EU guarantees us that it will not kidnap KIM. What happened? The EU kidnaps KIM, finishes the dirtiest jobs against the Serb people and you still want to check the EU. This is in the system. They spit on you, and you think it's raining, so you can stretch the umbrella. That's the system. You can think of it personally, but you have no right to lead such a policy that will ruin the entire people. That's what this is about. Here next beautiful songs – peace, peace, peace, no one is to blame. You know those children's songs. Further – increasing the number of women in the security services. Let me explain one thing to you right now. Since I'm visiting those international conferences, they're sending me there to kick their ass. It has a narrow and broader aspect of every resolution, every declaration and every area. The narrow aspect is based on the interpretation and the three words in the title. The broader aspect goes too far, so it's safe to put both oil and climate change and poverty and misery and the quality of food products, so I don't tell you what can be a security challenge or a risk. In that broad version, he discusses everything and everything. That's why someone had just had that discussion where some statistics on black dots or black holes were mentioned in the ruling of the DS and SPS coalition headed by Ivica Dacic. This statistic is yours. That's your score. It's your seal that says "Black Weed", the whole of Serbia "Black Weed", every place "Black Weed". A little bit now to ease this. Now let's go with this so we can demonstrate unity, because by the logic of things, everyone should vote. Why? Happy to. Who's against this? There's no man against this. Is that in accordance with the Constitution, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that we've shown the people how much we want more women to be in security structures. That every third woman wears a uniform, gives a cop a chance to give this military, but she's gonna strike again, like these cops who were strikers. You know them to guess they don't have a salary, the uniform hit. The service hit, not whether it was a man or a woman in uniform. That's your problem you can't solve. So now we're starting with stories and I'm asking you right now Veran Matic to put in, he had that baby action, did you see, it's resistance, the baby lifts his fist like a resistance. Social, social, responsible behavior, immediately the Divac gives him a reward here, have you solved the main problem of poverty? You're not. Have you solved the main problem of women discrimination, of effective discrimination, not only of women, but of men as well? They're all being discriminated against today. We have accepted the story of positive discrimination in some variants. You remember the list of MPs. We have accepted in some laws some provisions on positive discrimination, where it is necessary to help a specific group to equalise if possible in rights. But please, human rights are seen in a general way. They belong to every human being. Don't share people. You share people. Don't share them. Because if that logic of yours were to apply, then now someone would have to pass a law of equality here in courts, since 70, 80% of the judges are women. Is that right? Or it's equal when it comes to health care. There are no more employees there than men. And that doesn't occur to us from the Serbian Radical Party. It doesn't occur to us to think of something like that, let alone do it. But no, where you feel a tiny political profit, let's take a detour. There is no political agreement within the ruling coalition's parties for this item of the agenda. For this part of the agenda, there is no agreement in the Democratic Party itself. You saw when they set up the agenda, they wanted to take each other's eyes out here. How come we didn't agree, it's too early, you don't have to. Now here we have an authoritative lecture about how far-reaching Democrats are, and you're radicals are primitively simple. You're for discrimination, you're for violence, you're for this, you're for that. Then the story began, if women's elements were introduced into politics it would be better. The highest punishment was for women who were presidents of the congregation. Natasa Micic, Gordana Comic, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, so Tomic did not punish so much in Slobina's time there was not so much punishment. And even that Martian, and even Oliver Dulic, did not punish so much without talking about Predrag Markovic. He once punished Junior and once punished Wolfie, and here is the serial one. They, according to Comićka, do not need the power of women but to share responsibility. Please don't share your responsibility. I don't think you did it as women, but you as a member of the SPS, and she as a member of the DS. New Tadic calls nicely in the morning when she's headed to work and says it, you have to do it, and Tadic doesn't have to tell you because it's another relationship. This is where the thesis changes, the story turns, and now for God's sake, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, has gained human rights, and has never raised her voice because of Vojislav Seselj, who has been in the tribunal of The Hague for nine years. Not once, Gordana Comic did not raise the voice of that kind of discrimination and torture. Boris Tadic ever raise his voice? No, he rubs his hands, I don't care if he's gone, but as soon as he gets to the airport, 80% of the citizens will be there for him. What if he takes 80% of my money when I have to finish this job? When did you raise your voice? You will not raise your voice, and you have neither raised your voice nor your voice on Slobodan Milosevic, and what would you do for Vojislav Seselj? Who else raised his voice? Where are these NGOs? Where are these powerful organizations that are fighting women's, children's rights, etc., to raise a voice that has suffered torture in The Hague for nine years? No, hands rub, job done.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65313	It would be nice if you went back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65314	And the subject is discrimination? The topic is discrimination, and I was simply amazed that Mrs. Komic mentioned Vojislav Seselj, so she can, and you forbid me to? See what you're doing? You see when it's too thick how you make a mistake in applying the Rules of Procedure. There are no problems, of course the Serbian Radical Party is not opposed to women participating according to their security capabilities, let's say peace, etc. It's just that we're against it. But the legal basis for one such decision does not exist, so far it has been a rule when such decisions are made to go to the widest possible consensus. Once upon a time during the time of that Slobodan Milosevic, there were round tables on the appearance of laws on the selection of MPs, and they agreed that distribution would be proportionate to the size of some functions within the board, working bodies, etc. Ever since democracy came, when Bodrum votes, it's gone. These are European standards. These are EU standards. Since I am near the end of Mrs Djukic – Dejanovic, there is another minute to tell Mrs Comic, since she has left the session now. It's a wide repertuary of words and synonyms with which the SRS convinces citizens, describing what it means to be a pro-European party, and that's where it all comes from. So that's where we use the traitor, we agree to use it. We're using the fifth column, the most I'm using, October 5th, that matches, so you know. There's a time out there where, for some time, "you freak," there's this "who with Boris Tadic, that God gives him..." "and we used that, and it's all true about Kosovo and Metohija. You see, the radicals have never been so wrong. Whether your ears like it, it's an aesthetic artistic impression of you, but in terms of facts, be absolutely accurate. And secondly, did you see Mrs. Radeta defend you? How much she praised you, how good you were director of the clinic center when these of yours attacked you. But on the basis of this, there is an impression, Mrs. Djukic – Dejanovic, that you have really learned the true range of that old Serbian saying – the beating came out of heaven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65315	Dear People's MPs, the occasion for the agenda point we discussed was the international document, Resolution 1325. Just once again to ask if anyone who hasn't used their rights under Article 96. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? Mr. Colakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65316	Dear Presidents and the Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, I feel the need to say something on behalf of the parliamentary group after these discussions. I express great satisfaction and support for the decision we are now discussing about the education of this congregation body. As much as we talk about inequality or equality or gender equality, we have to admit that in our society, it's getting worse. Unfortunately, I also have to realize that it goes to the harm of women, and that's well known to us. There's a lot of examples. Just this one example. I think 30 committees in our parliament are all one woman president of the board. Women are, why I say it, in any case, we have to admit it, better than us men, that they are more responsible and more secure. In this regard, there is no dilemma with us in our parliamentary group. I'll just give you a few examples. We have the president of Parliament's assembly and everything he does in the course of 24 hours deserves special attention and special commendation. In this regard, I am pleased that there are examples and that better work and action can be done on this issue. One more thing I'd like to point out, there was little to say about it here, and I'd like to remind you that we have a rich tradition on this issue, and that should not be ignored and let out of sight, especially when it comes to the promoter. We've had bright examples in the NOB, in the construction of society and that of the socialist and the present, and that should not be ignored. We're not the coaches who brought the ball and start playing some sports branch from us. I think we dropped it a little bit and ignored it, and we pointed it out in the public hearing that was recently. The PUPS parliamentary group will make a full contribution and support to the achievement and resolution and work of this body. What I can say, as a first example, is that we will show it in the next election and I hope it will be some woman in our parliamentary group. That'll be our contribution. In the end, I want to congratulate the New Year's and Christmas holidays of all the women in our beautiful country, to wish for a lot of health. I would especially like to express my satisfaction and greeting to the pensioners and to keep as many of them in the security zone as possible in new times and in new years, but also in politics and in other functions and in the political life of the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-12-27-0.u65317	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee on Monitoring and Implementation of the National Action Plan for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 – Women, Peace and Security in the Republic of Serbia 2010 – 2015. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. I thank all those who have been active and every other part of the work today and with the work we continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
