ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54080	I have a question for the president of the reconstructed government, and for those before the reconstruction, Mr. Cvetkovic. Before that, I will ask a few questions or a number of questions, but above all, to the citizens of Serbia, to ask themselves, all those who watch this transmission, about everything that is happening today. Of course, the last question will be for Mr. Cvetkovic. I wonder and ask all of us here together, Mr Cvetkovic, Mr Tadic, but also all of the citizens of Serbia, who has been guilty of 400,000 unemployed since this coalition was in power. The newly unemployed, otherwise, have a million-and-a-half in Serbia. Is it Tomislav Nikolic or anyone from the opposition? Who is to blame for the fact that wages are lower by at least 100 euros on average compared to when this coalition was made and this majority? Is it Tomislav Nikolic's fault? Who's to blame for having a record inflation in Europe? Who's to blame for having a daily jump in the price of food? Is Tomislav Nikolic guilty of rising the prices of everything this government controls? Whether it's electricity, gas, heating for citizens, city transport. Is it someone in the opposition or the one in charge? Who's to blame for the fact that pensions are far lower than when you took power? Who is to blame for building a bridge in Belgrade that will be allocated so much money from our country's taxpayers, and in the same EU that we all want to go for that money can three such bridges be built? Who's to blame for giving a company that went to their country to bankrupt a job to build a bridge? Who's to blame for giving Željev's bridge five million euros more than the best price offered, and then it turns out that whoever got the job has no possibility of making it, and to this day they didn't start working? Looks like they've given up. Is it anyone from the opposition or Tomislav Nikolic, for example? Who's to blame for ruining Serbia's stock fund? Who is to blame for having an unreformed or poorly reformed judiciary, as everyone in the EU says? Is that someone who is the opposition or Tomislav Nikolic? Who's to blame for not solving Ranko Panic's murder? Today, when citizens demonstrate across Serbia, the same units of gendarmes are being performed on the same streets of Belgrade and Serbia two or three years ago, without being resolved, I repeat, the murder of Ranko Panic and whoever may have done this murder may, and possibly, be among those gendarmes. Is it a risk to go out in front of people like that or with people like that, and is it a risk for you, too, for those in power, to prevent citizens in, otherwise, peaceful protests? My question for the Prime Minister is – how long does he think his government is destroying the state in this way and impoverishing the citizens? Is it such a problem for him and President Tadic to say no tomorrow, but in December there are elections? You're afraid there'll be elections in December. When will Mr. Cvetkovic resign? Is it possible for him to take it tomorrow, so we can have an election right away?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54081	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to ask a few questions to Serbian Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. First - is there even a Government of the Republic of Serbia? Is the finance minister there in Serbia, when it is allowed that after the adoption of the Ministry Act, which we have adopted in this House, the budget adopted under some previous Ministry Act, simply works? Does this government, especially the finance minister and prime minister, have the credibility to have the people's money coming to mind, breaking the Budget Law that was passed here in parliament? The budget law has clearly and loudly defined individual positions of ministries that do not exist now. What about NIP funds? How does she spend it? How are the funds of the Ministry of Mining and Energy being spent? How are the distributions, what key, and who distributed them? How do you spend the funds of the ministries that have been shut down? The finance minister makes financial violations because it allows for a total anarchy in finance and is done literally whatever it wants and is not respected by the law passed here in parliament. Therefore, calling elections is perfectly normal. After this chaos that occurred and from the previous speaker we heard, I'd like to suggest that the most frequent thing is to call the election. Because you don't exist, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, with your government, you don't respect the Budget Law, you don't respect the Constitution, and that showed the last meeting in the World Bank, when Finance Minister Cvetkovic got $800m per four years, which turns out to be 70m euros a year, which is one crumb, and 70m is for the budget, to fill the gaps in the budget. With 70 million euros, you can't do anything. You have based all your projects on the sale of Telecom and, of course, on the help of the World Bank that you have repeated here countless times, that the World Bank will provide credit funds for large investments in Serbia. I don't know how you're going to explain the current arrival of Cvetkovic from New York. With 70m euros a year for investments in Serbia from the World Bank, it is a disgrace, it has nothing, no holes to patch up in Serbia, let alone something to do. What about this number of unemployed? What about the 67,000 companies that went bankrupt? What about the 50 grand that are in the pre-determined procedure? How do you plan to resolve judicial reform? How do you plan to complete the laws necessary by June? How come the restitution law ends when you didn't even start doing it? How can anyone from the opposition make a deal with you when you don't want to talk? This disgrace that happened recently when the president arrived at parliament during the weekend to visit Tomislav Nikolic, so I don't know how to explain it. One cowboy incursion of a group of bloated, wretched who flew in, flew off like a furry, and simply held a conference and left. Is this your serious state-leading? You see where you lead Serbia, a total mess where citizens take over certain activities throughout Serbia and let you know that they are against you, the whole of Serbia is against you. Your membership is against you. Part of your MPs are against you. Don't you embarrass yourself so much and call elections, because it's necessary to preserve face, not you, you don't have cheek, but the Republic of Serbia. So please consider this seriously. Let this visit be to the World Bank of Prime Ministers and this humiliating figure he received annually for investments in Serbia, a guideline that you are not on the right path, but to go to a dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54083	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54084	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have only one sentence first. I was surprised by Mr. Shormaz, who suddenly got so scared of the police in the streets, and now he's in so much trouble with it. He did not mind members of JSO at Gazela in 2001, then it was a wonderful and legitimate national protest. To go back to what is a topic, to stay away from some of these bizarre things that have occupied Serbia for the past three or four days, it is also a reminder of the ruling coalition, that under the shadow of what is happening, they do not pass without public attention some much more important things. Today, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov visits Belgrade. We've heard very superficially what will be the subject of conversation. Apparently, the accuracy of some points of a potential strategic partnership agreement between Serbia and Russia. We think that this must be discussed much more seriously, to see what the government or foreign minister platform is, which will obviously lead these talks today, alongside President Boris Tadic, because Serbia has a whole series of serious problems or unresolved issues or open issues, to use the diplomatic dictionary, in relations with the Russian Federation. Last time Russia was discussed, in the evening of elections and in the atmosphere of expectations that elections would be called either before the May 11th 2008 elections itself, the country was introduced into a whole series of problems we cannot solve today. Let me remind you, that's when we happened to lose, as the only country to enter the South Stream project, the majority property, or equal status in that future project, we lost the majority package and equal ownership in the sale of NIS, we're still the country that only has an intermediary, and that's foreign ownership of gas imports, etc. The country has concluded a strategic partnership agreement with another country over the past few years. We didn't get it from the public, or from what's been announced that there are more serious problems. What are the problems with the talks with the Russian Federation? What was it that couldn't be solved about a month ago, when Russian Prime Minister Putin was visiting here? If you've been through this fascination with the Russian prime minister, let's see what these technical issues are today that cost us a billion, two or three dollars or euros a year. Russia is a country with which we have a huge foreign trade deficit. Russia is still not a market for our products for a number of reasons, at least because of Russia, more because of the inability of our policy, political economy or economy to produce, export these products. We have an obvious problem with the reconstruction of the Đerdupski hydroelectric power plants, which is very little to talk about in public. Once again, I call on Prime Minister Cvetkovic, above all, to address these questions to this parliament. The same goes for the President of the Republic. It is nice to come to the appropriate visits to parliament, which apparently bother Mr Ilic, but other than four talks or four meetings with Mr Nikolic, it is time for him and the prime minister to turn once over the past two or three years to this Parliament where decisions are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54085	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54086	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question has been addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Zoran Stankovic. For more than half a year, a professional association, Serbia's dental chamber, has not been operational. At the end of last year, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted an amendment to the Law on the chambers of health workers. We also warned the current Minister, Mr Milosavljevic, that such a change and addition of the Law would not allow normal work of the dental chamber. This was confirmed some time ago when the Assembly of the Dental Chamber was convened, which was not maintained because the conditions provided for by law were not met. In the course of January, it is the following, former Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic sent a memo to the Serbian Doctor's Society asking that the most responsible, most important and honorable people who will organise the Parliament of the Stomatology Chamber be delegated from professional associations. The proposal to the Association of Doctors and Dentists sent its proposal to the academics, Radoj Colovic. The proposal arrived at the health ministry on January 21st this year. There's been an unexplainable change in two names. In view of the fact that there has been a change in the initiative committee calling on the Assembly, I believe that the Chamber of Denomination could not be maintained under the law laid down. Appreciateing Mr. Minister's work so far, I hope that from his staff at the Ministry of Health, he will be held responsible for what way these two names have changed, what will he do to maintain the Chamber of Tomatories of Serbia in normal time within the prescribed time limit. It is important because the whole profession is in one doubt about the licensing of dentists and the continuation of further work in providing services to patients across Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54087	The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS asks by who knows which way the regime's competent representatives are going to do what and do they have any intention of doing anything with local kabadiahs in Serbia who are trying to create a political scene in some places in Serbia's interior? The direct cause of our and today's, as well as several previous issues, is the brutal beating of Ivan Markovic, a member of the Municipal Council in the municipality of Bajin Bast. We warned that a man was brutally beaten in a cafe where Radovan Krelic, a member of New Serbia and former vice president of Bajina Bast municipality, came in. One of his beatings beat up Ivan Markovic brutally. The police have only been notified of order after our intervention from here. One of these beatings has been heard and nothing further has happened in terms of suppressing these local cabadias and their behaviour, but unfortunately, in the meantime, there are much scarier and more brutal things going on and we are really wondering what you in the regime have turned political life into in Serbia. A session of the Bayin Basta Municipality Assembly was held on Friday. We warned that pressures were being made, that money was being offered to committees supporting the SRS and NS coalition, which is the new coalition in Baja Basta. We also spoke to that woman, a widow with two underage children, who was called in during the night and convinced her to betray that coalition, or to stop supporting that new coalition so that those who apparently will not even have their own committees come back. On the night between Thursday and Friday, Mr. Milic, one of the council, received two monstrous messages from the phone number 063/721-00-25. The first message was, "Mr. Milic, time is running out. If you haven't done that, you'll be watching your baby with blacks, and Marco and Martin are at stake. With Maria, we'll be easy. We're on three points of my money, we're fighting, we're torturing, and you're ready for a bullet." The second message is, "Your kid's gonna get kidnapped and raped, you're gonna watch the video." These messages and this number of phones are handed over to the local police in Baja Basta and, unfortunately, nothing is done and it is truly amazing that you in the regime allow them to be intimidated, blackmailed by Serbian citizens, by the councils, because they want to change power, because they have managed to change power in Baja's garden. You, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, especially you from the DS, and not only you, but also those who exercise executive power, do not seriously deal with political issues in Serbia, and it should be high time. You of the regime have allowed these days and given incredible publicity to this farce, Tomislav Nikolic, as if he were really strikein' hunger. Instead of dealing with and the media dealing with what problems are in Serbia, you are dealing with this farce. You show Serbian citizens in Nikolic's hand an infusion cannula, he forgot to tell Vukic to put his hand under the covers, and here they convince him not to receive an infusion, not to drink water, etc., as if he could behave like that and talk to him, without even drying his mouth, and not drinking water, as they lie, for several days. It's all saying that I'm ending up, actually you're from the regime, or DS and the Progressive Party, in fact, exactly the same. You are only two sides of the European Medal of Evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54089	Anyone else answer for a word to use their right to Article 286? You can't. National MP Dragan Shormaz has been reported. I refer you to the Rules of Procedure when the session is under way. On the basis of Rule 286, there is no statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, no replicas. When we're done, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please read the Rules of Procedure concerning how the sessions work when asking questions. Before we continue the work, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the members of the Serbian Society "Sigelic" from Geteborg, who are visiting the House of the National Assembly, and are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Attending are: Tanja Antic, Dejana Bastajić, Marija Božović, Angela Pavasović, Katarina Pavlovic, Stefanija Petkovic, Sanja Savković, Milena Radulović, Tanja Stevanović, Nikola Milošević, Sandra Djordjevic, Andreja Pavlovic, Irena Pavlovic, Branko Majnović, Milan Mitić, Radoslav Mima Jelačić, Darko Mišić, Milan Radulović, Boban Bozović, Srdjan Savić, Andreja Mitrović, Petar Đukanovic, Marko Antic, Nikola Radulović, Nemanja Albianić, Martin Markovski, Marko Stanković, Nagam Jaravan, Nemanja Jankovic, Dobrica Đordjevic, Tomisa Radulović, Novica Milošević, Miodrag Krljić and Aleksandar Luković. Welcome to the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, Branko Ružić, Zoran Nikolic, Konstantin Samofalov, Maja Vidinović and Aleksandra Jerkov. Notification of the invited to the session. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly Chairman Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, in addition to the representative of Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, and Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Energy, also called for Minister Oliver Dulic, and also for Dragan Mladenov, adviser to the Ministry of Finance, Vladan Manic, adviser to the Ministry of Finance, Dijan Montiljo, adviser to the Ministry of Finance; Sanja Saric, Head of the Finance Group and the Capital Market in the Ministry of Finance and Zoran Sandic, Head of the Payment System Group at the Ministry of Finance. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE CAPITAL MARKET (individuals) We have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vladan Jeremic, Dragan Stevanović and together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Šormaz and Dragan Šormaz, as well as the amendments of the Finance Committee. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as from the Government on amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 54th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? National MP Dragan Shormaz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54090	Madam Chairman, I wanted to go by article 27 a moment ago, and I guess he does, and your presidency applies when questions are asked. Now, I am also reporting by this article, and not by amendment, Article 27, I guess the attitude it says – the National Assembly president is looking after the application of this Rules of Procedure, also applies at the time of the question. You're obliged to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54091	People's MPs, just because I'm taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, you didn't get the word. If you intend to violate the Rules of Procedure, I am at your disposal. If you intend to use the Rules of Procedure, I am also at your disposal. If you intend to abuse the Rules of Procedure, I am at my disposal. So, I'm taking care of it. You have received your word as an amendment to Article 54. You are at your disposal the total time of the parliamentary group, as well as two minutes per amendment. Please sign in and use your time under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54092	All right, you're taking care of yourself, I didn't say you weren't taking care of yourself, but you're doing the old good thing, and I didn't say you weren't taking care of yourself, and I don't know why you threw yourself at me. I haven't said for a moment that you don't care. But everyone here heard that a question is being asked about Baja's Garden, and it is said that Tomislav Nikolic does not strike hunger and that he is happy on TV when someone sees him, and you have not responded to it, and that has nothing to do with each other, as well as a colleague who is calling for something that happened 10 years ago, when no one was killed, for a unit that doesn't exist today, compared to what may happen today, compared to what happened two years ago, which is the murder of Ranko Panic. If those weren't enough reasons, I don't know what they are. If you expect us to work normally in this situation and keep trying to make everything look normal, while everything that's going on in the country happens, I really don't know how you thought it would happen. It will not be safe and I think that we should all work together to make sure that parliament participates in what is happening in the country in some way, and to agree whether we will have extraordinary parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54093	Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact that what is happening these days with Nikolic is the most common farce all citizens of Serbia see. They may have a problem, some who intervene or representatives of the Progressive Party, which they realized that Vukic had succeeded in bringing Nikolic down, only because he wants to get rid of him politically as soon as possible. Publicly, reports of this private hospital have arrived that, imagine, someone who strikes hunger and thirst to go to the hospital to monitor his condition so he doesn't overdo it, which is amazing, because if someone decides to strike for some idea of hunger and thirst, then he doesn't go to the hospital to do it under the control of a doctor. And what was under the control of the doctor, came public, so the report on the survey and found Tomislav Nikolic after 30 and a change of hours of not taking water, shows that it is not so. Every layman knows that when a diuretic is taken, it is mandatory to drink with one tablet and one bag of sodium powder, because each dehydration leads to the serious fall of these electrolytes, first of all, sodium, potassium and chloride. Imagine what it's like in Tome Nikolic's case: sodium is 140, and the benchmarks are between 135 and 145, so ideally, potassium 3,60, and the reference values are 3.5 to 5.3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54095	Right on the line, MP Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54096	I am reporting under Article 104, I do not want to replicate, but Article 2, if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or to a political party. To call something like this a farce, it speaks of those who speak so. Data, all witnesses are that the medical team didn't want to present any data, and here they're read as some data. It's all less important. The most important thing is to respond to citizens' problems, and it is known who can answer these problems, who is an alternative to this government, those who speak in vain can continue to speak in vain, but the fact is that the citizens of Serbia know what is happening right now, and in the hospital where Mr Tomislav Nikolic lies, and they all know that he strikes thirst, they know that the situation is very critical, regardless of who is talking here. As the media in Serbia are trying to banalise this whole case and bring down the importance of this whole case, which is under control, I can openly tell Dragan Gilas in Serbia, because everyone knows who controls the marketing space in the electronic media in Serbia, so I'm not surprised that some colleagues here are also trying not to give that case that much, but I'm telling you that it's a serious situation and it's not for that kind of comment. Here, first of all, we have to act like people, and not only as politicians in every situation, and I think if one of the bishops was with Mr. Nikolic yesterday, and if there are going to be other very significant visits, I think we should all consider it and behave politely if we don't support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54097	There's no harm done to Article 104, nor did you explain it. When you want to explain the attack on the party, then in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I gave you the opportunity to do it in a replica. Your choice is not to report for the replica, but for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and by my obligation I answer you that the word "farce" does not fall within the terms for which the MP should be interrupted and that I am trying to hold a session so that all MPs, in respect of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, have the right to say what they want, explaining their position, and you, as well as anyone else. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Shormaz has injured Article 107. By jeopardizing the dignity of the National Assembly. First of all, he was asking questions about who was responsible for this and who was responsible for it. I would like to remind Mr Shormaz and the other MPs that until a few months ago he was a senior party official who held the government of the Republic of Serbia from 2004 to 2008. It is a threat to the dignity of the National Assembly when Mr. Shormaz as a newly-roasted MP, so-called The SNS is seeking to find the murderer Rank Panic, a man who protested the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, and is a member of the party that would do the same today, as the same Tomislav Nikolic said he would arrest Ratko Mladic. Furthermore, as far as this healing expert team is concerned, and reportedly taking care of Tomislav Nikolic, who plays a hunger and thirst strike in front of TV cameras, and do you know who's a member of the medical expert team? One is a specialist in social medicine, and the other is, let the ladies excuse me, sexologist. For all I know, Jovan Maric is a sexologist. What does that have to do with a man who allegedly strikes hunger and thirst? It doesn't matter. Tell me who strikes hunger and thirst for three days, and is able to talk, as Mr. Shormaz says, to the bishops, to the press? Today, it has been announced that at 1:00 p.m., a half-dead man is reportedly going to address the public. I've never heard of such hunger and thirst strikes in my life. All of us in Serbia are now abnormal, rude, liars, bastards, all of us working for the regime – only one man all the opposite of that. Excuse me, let me be a little haunted by the regime, as Alexander Vukic was persecuted, so I don't get off Serbian Radio TV, from Pinka, from B 92. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54099	National MP Dragan Shormaz, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54100	I get the impression that some people here need sexologists because that's all they know about thinking, not where they're supposed to be, so they act like they're acting. On the other hand, I would remind my young colleague that at the time of Ranko Panic's murder, I spoke much more often about it than he did, regardless of which party I was a member at the time. Also, I was saying that I would never, as MP Dragan Shormaz, stop asking questions. While I was a member of the Committee on Defence and Security at each session, I asked questions to Minister Dacic – when this issue will be resolved and until today is resolved. As far as I know, the Ranko Panic family is right with Mr. Vucic is in the biggest communication and right in support of the SNS has the greatest support to address the question of their son's murder. And it will be resolved, surely, in the next period and the murder of their son and know who killed him, by name and last name, I can guarantee it from here. Because it's a foreigner who's going to lead the next government and who's going to solve everything that's been unsolved so far, no matter how much anxiety you're showing and what you're all so sour about. The fact is that it will be so and all Serbian citizens know it, whether the elections are held now, in December, or in April of next year. There's no need to worry so much. I wish you'd shown as a folk MP so much that you supported all of this in order to solve the whole case, and not now that you're trying to kill Ranko Panic to banalise, as previous LDP colleagues, as if there was really no possibility, which I asked – is there a possibility that whoever killed him would still go out on the streets of Belgrade today and is standing in front of Serbian citizens? I am not afraid for myself, but for the citizens of Serbia, of such gendarmes and such murderers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54101	Right on the line, the People's Parliament of the Witch of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54102	As I said, since the ruling regime gives incredible publicity to this farce and shows that Nikolic really strikes hunger and thirst, yesterday we were able to see who visited Tom Nikolic, so we saw that Milan Beko was also visiting. I guess the man went to visit his investment, to see that his investment didn't fall apart by accident. As far as these findings are concerned, which Mr. Shormaz says are the least important, the medical findings are from the chosen hospital. They say the only patient in the hospital is Tomislav Nikolic, who, by the way, is not a patient, but only a man who went to lie down for a while and made a comedy in such a difficult time. But if your findings aren't correct or if they don't matter, let Tomislav Nikolic go to VMA so nice where there's nothing to hide, let them be there and see if his chlorines are there, where the reference value is 98-107, in his case 103. So, the man is really, what Krasic said earlier, healthy as Rambo. You can't convince anyone normal that he strikes hunger and thirst. As for that comment, do we understand what it's like to have a thirst striker, we all know, we who speak at public meetings in this assembly, if we talk for more than 10 minutes, dry our mouths and can't wait to drink a glass of water, let alone Nikolic, how much he spoke first at that rally, then with journalists, and with those who sat on the Styrofoam next to him and, of course, you can see that the man is alive and healthy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54103	Right on line, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54104	Thank God he's alive and well, because I think you'd like to see it differently. But I hope that won't happen. Thank God he's alive, and I hope that he gets out of all of this and he stays alive. As much as you're trying to be the target, you're not the target of the SNS. You, as the only coalition partners in the city, may now be paying back your debts because you have entered the boards of directors, supervisory boards, etc., at the level of Belgrade with DS, SPS and LDP. But the fact is that Mr. Nikolic strikes thirst, and that doesn't need to be explained to anyone anymore. I won't bother to mention it anymore. What's important for SNS is that this power is our target, the parliamentary majority, until you give them help in most when they need it, but our target is an incompetent government of DS and their coalition partners, and what they do. We are dealing with them, as Serbian citizens see, recognize, and because they see the only alternative in SNS. You can live with it or not, but it is a fact and you will see it in the elections, whenever they are held – tomorrow, in December or in April of next year. The SNS will have a convincing victory and will defeat not you, but above all the incompetent government in Serbia, which has led Serbian citizens to ruin.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54105	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54106	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is really not right to call someone for the murder of Ranko Panic because man protested the arrest of Radovan Karadzic and his delivery to The Hague tribunal and to be a member of the party that today, if it were able, did the same. You, Mr. Shormaz, have a problem with being a member of a party that today, in 2011, would do the same thing the DS did in 2008 with Radovan Karadzic. You have no right to call anyone you, who is a member of this party, for the murder of Ranko Panic. Since when did you, Mr. Shormaz, become so distasteful of the DS? You were a senior party official who sat with the DS in the Serbian government. I didn't sit in that government. It wasn't Dragan Stevanovic. He didn't sit down, Dragan Todorovic. You supported that government, you and your new party. I don't know if it's the last in your political career, but the current party has a formally signed coalition agreement with DS in Prepolje. There, along with DS, you voted that Bosniak language was one of the official languages in the Prepolje municipality. In SO Rum, you voted for a man from the DS to be president of the So. Now you honor us as we're supposed to be a party that supports DS. Excuse me, Mr. Shormaz, were you or anyone from the SRS in 2000 part of that hungover coalition called DOS, which was numbering 18 political parties? Since when did you suddenly become a great opponent of DS? The DS has preserved your mandates. If you were a fundamental opponent of this regime, they would be eager to see your back from this House. They left you here because you and they have the same political boss and you will do what the political boss tells you to do. You don't decide yourself anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54107	Right on line, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54108	The Serbian Progressive Party will do everything in accordance with the country's Constitution and laws, which is understood. As is understood, and the protest was not due to the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, I will remind you, but because of the illegal arrest of Radovan Karadzic. But well, you can continue your story. I didn't offer my DS for a mandate, not for anything, but the other day on King's television, you said there was a possible coalition between the SRS and the DS. Since they don't need you, I know they certainly didn't call you to say that, because, as you say, I know them, of course I know them. When you mention the year 2000 and where I was in 2000, I can tell you that I'm not ashamed for one second, because that was the time. There was a bad regime in power and there was a bad situation in the country. I don't have any problem with that, but that's why I'm doing what I did today in 2000, and my conscience is clean. The people are still bad today, as was bad in 2000. DOS, unfortunately, didn't do what he promised. That is why I believe that distance from DOS and from 2000 is needed and that there is something new that needs to be given to the people of Serbia. There's a need for change. That's who he's with in power only talks about who's capable while he's in power and who's not. Say some problem with the Prepolje municipality, isn't that where the government doesn't work? Didn't you make almost one new bridge over Lim? This government at the republican level is incompetent, and in the city of Belgrade, where you are together with them in power, makes a three-time bridge more expensive than it would cost, say, in France, and you do not use your positions to criticize them or prevent them from doing so.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54109	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. This circle of replicas will be closed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54110	You, Mr. Shormaz, have read that information that I allegedly said the SRS for the DS coalition read in your "Justice" party list, which otherwise, Mr. Shormaz, publishes all the ads of the city of Belgrade and the Belgrade City Assembly. The man you're attacking so much, Dragan Gilas, is the one who's actually funding your party list. Now I don't know who you worship at all. Your conscience is clear even when you were in DOS and now that you're in SNS. Your conscience is clear even when you delivered generals to The Hague and when a man died protesting it, and today your conscience is clean if you would do the same. I don't want to deal with the question of conscience, I'm not an expert like this sexologist who treats your president for what I don't know, but you really have a problem with your positioning on the political scene of Serbia. Tell me, were you right in 2000 when you were in DOS? Were you right a few months ago when you were a senior DSS official? Or are you right now when you're a member of the SNS? How come you're always right, you've changed so many parties, and we who haven't changed the party, we haven't changed the ideology, we haven't changed our program, we're never right? That doesn't make any sense to me, believe me. Don't tell us if it's good or not a good coalition with DS. We were not in that coalition, unlike you, Mr. Shormaz, who you were and who you were, essentially today, because your president, the new president, will not know whether or not the last, but the current president, to do what Mrs. Catherine Ashton tells him, what Stefan File tells him, he will do. (President: Two minutes. I'm done. Here you're playing some martyr, some kind of victim who's in front of TV cameras pretending to stand for change. What are these changes, when you and they have the same policy – the EU has no alternative?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54111	The People's Messenger Dragan Shormaz, and the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, after him.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54112	I won't mention anyone's name, I'll just repeat by who knows which time my personal conscience is clean, with the citizens of Serbia every day and everyone says I made the right move. The changes were needed in 2000, and that's why I say that change is necessary day and day, because the promises are not fulfilled. Out of thousands of euros per share, there is nothing, out of 200,000 newly employed in Serbia, but on the contrary, 400,000 lost their jobs, with no higher salaries, but also lower salaries and pensions. The most expensive bridges in the world are being built and the slowest highway in the world is being built. That's what Serbian citizens are interested in. Exactly, something is increasing in Serbia, the number of popular cuisines is increasing. That is why changes are needed in Serbia. That's why the SNS is pushing for early parliamentary elections, and the rest of them who are playing the opposition do whatever they think they should do.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54113	The People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54114	Comrade Shormaz doesn't seem to know that change doesn't mean change of party, what he did. But well, it's his personal matter. He mentioned, interestingly, that the rally due to the extradition of Radovan Karadzic, he claims, was a rally due to illegal extradition. He wants to say what this circuser is, lying in front of cameras at the private hospital, almost said Serbia's obligation is legal to hand over Ratko Mladic. So, fellow Shormaz obviously accepted it, so he wants to prepare the ground if, God forbid, Mladic would hand himself over or if, God forbid, they came to power and did so, to say it was in accordance with the law. Shormaz said well that when they were in the next election, he said, "We will not defeat you." He meant Serbian radicals. We know you can't beat us, Mr. Shormaz. You're free of the circus, you're free of comedy, you're free of the Vucician to lie there and play a strike, and every day it looks like something more chubby, it looks like they feed him well and eat him there in that hospital. As for DS support, you voted here a few months ago for several laws of the ruling majority. Then he said what he was doing to the farce these days, that Nikolic said when he was asked somewhere on TV – yes, but it was in some evenings, in some late hours, and there were some irrelevant laws. So, you're working with the DS in the afternoon, and in the morning, you're working with Gilas, Rakic and Vukic, of course, because, as I said at the beginning, you're two sides of the European Medal of Evil.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54115	National MP Dragan Shormaz, right on line. This is the last replica to be exchanged.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54116	What's so controversial about party change? If a party stops doing what it says in the program or if you no longer agree with what appears to be in that party, what is the problem with changing the party? It's so normal, it's done everywhere in the world. That's not a problem at all. After all, this story of mandates and amendments to the law, that will also be explained to you by your DS colleagues. It is something that is also in line with European standards and rules everywhere in the world. There's no problem. You may find it a problem, but that's why you don't understand when I tell you that we won't fight, that you're not our target and that we're not fighting you in these political turmoils, because you're hardly going to pass the election censorship. What do we have on you to take care of? You can stay on one ship, but that ship is sinking. You will understand that very quickly, as some in Croatia have recently understood. I also repeat for who knows which time, SNS and Tomislav Nikolic want changes in Serbia to make it better for the citizens, because this most incompetent government in Serbia's history has brought Serbian citizens to the brink of hunger. That is the only reason Tomislav Nikolic joined his people, so he went on a hunger and thirst strike. If only we'd asked for something much, now I'm speaking to the DS gentlemen, if only we'd asked for something much, but in December of the election. You're afraid of choices in December. What if they were tomorrow?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54117	National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54118	Mrs. Comic, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I patiently listened to Dragan Shormaz and all that he was saying and, given the fact that we have information from various sources, what I'm about to tell you is the direct contact that we, as representatives of our parliamentary delegation, had last week at the Council of Europe Assembly. That what Mrs Radeta said, as well as Mr Martinovic, is true, and what she knows about your entire European bulument, which supports you to continue along with the DS on the path of destroying Serbia, says the application of Tomislav Nikolic and your phantom party to be admitted to so-called. I-PI-PI national group in the Council of Europe. Since you just said, and told you by Radeta colleague, you didn't hear, she said – do you know English, because your program was written in English, and you don't know exactly what it is, it's only known that it's the destruction of Serbia, that you are for the blind path of joining the EU, that you are for the delivery of General Ratko Mladic. So, you're traitors, you're not Serbian patriots, you're not the ones who want well to the Serbian people in general, and that's all confirmed in a direct conversation between our colleagues, Mr Aligrudic, Miss Kovac and Mr Ivanji with the head of the I-PI-PI group delegation. Namely, since this one of yours in preparation for this strike farce, allegedly thirst and hunger, did not appear in the Council of Europe, the gentleman asked – well, do you have any idea what the party's programme is? Of course, these people who are in the coalition who are in power said that he has the same thoughts as they have and that he is so presented in public, and Mr Aligrudic went even so far as to confirm that he has decidedly told Tomislav Nikolic that he would deliver Ratko Mladic and that he would go even further by doing everything he asked of him by mentors from the West. (President: Two minutes. ) Therefore, Mr. Shormaz, don't deceive the public anymore and don't present yourself as an alternative, especially you, until you've adopted this phantom party, you've given a quorum to all the DS defense and security committees.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54119	There's no damage to article 107. People's MPs who use the right to reply shall make their views known, regardless of whether they are party programmes, public opinion research or views, so that the content of the replicas, except in exceptional cases, when it is obvious that some other members and provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly may not be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. National Messenger Dragan Šormaz, and the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54120	Yes, it is true that the SNS has applied to be part of the European People's Party, and that must be something to greet. These are the parties that have the most governments in Europe, the most MPs in the European Parliament, the most MPs in the Parliament of the Council of Europe. After all, Putin's United Russia is also negotiating with the European People's Party. You don't know that, but here I'm telling you that it's negotiating to become even a full member of the European People's Party, which is the problem, because the Unique Russia may be bigger than all these parties together at this point, so there's a little talk about it now. The fact is, it's the Unique Russian People's Party, and I don't see what the problem is. I guess we should work together with the world, we shouldn't be here to shut ourselves down and be alone with ourselves. If that's what you want, you want it. That's completely irrelevant, irrelevant. I can read the program in both English and Serbian. If you do not understand if this is the case and if you do not believe it, ask your colleagues who traveled with me to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation, where I spoke many times in English, without any single paper and represented Serbia's interests. They know it, and they know it from the DS, and they know it from the Foreign Ministry, so I don't have any problem with that. So it wasn't a problem for me to read the SNS program in English, if anyone did. So I didn't have that problem, so I don't see why you're talking about me that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54121	National MP Milos Aligrudic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54122	Miss Jovanovic, I very much appreciate you, you are my wonderful colleague from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. What we're doing there, you and a couple of us are making the most of our efforts. The only thing I'd ask is that we don't interpret what we're hearing from what's said. If something is said in the office, in a room between us is a momentary opinion of something, I guess it's for some mutual appreciation, it's not for putting out, especially if what's said is interpreted in a way that may be politically useful to you at this point, but does not reflect the facts. As for any conversation I had with any parliamentary group president within the Council of Europe, and regarding the position of earlier the SRS or today, when I was asked about the position of SNS, because they applied for the European People's Party, they have not yet been admitted there. In Brussels, as far as the Council of Europe is concerned, there is much easier, there is also someone who is not a member in Brussels who can apply, it is something that I have not expressed in any way, nor have I given my opinion there in any way. In my time, when the SRS applied for the European Democratic Group, I asked for a former representative, who was then a member of the conservative party, Bob Walter, to see you and certainly make sure that it would be good to join the SRS in the European Democratic Group, according to your request, because I felt that any prejudice towards any political party, especially to the major political parties from Serbia, could be only harmful and not useful. This one general attitude towards political life participants in Serbia has not changed, regardless of political differences. That's all it's about, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54123	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54124	Mr. Aligrudic, don't be a mess, thank you for those kind words. I also respect you as a fellow member of the Serbian delegation and as the former head of our delegation. This is what the people of I-PI-PP told me, meaning folk groups, and not you, I didn't talk to you about it, and I would never abuse it, it's my code of conduct and honor, private conversation with someone. You know that Mr. Todorovic and I had a working day meeting with certain parliamentarians. When people come from different parties, from all over Europe, have information, ask questions and know that Nikolic has stolen mandates and that he has taken some quasi-European route, of course we will find out all this and that they are asking us for an opinion. As far as that SRS app is concerned, yes, it's a natural place for us there, because all the Russian parties are there, you know it very well, unlike this unfortunate Shormaz, who has no slight connections and doesn't know anything, as he didn't even know when he was with you. It is about that, and you are witnessing it, as well as your adviser Mr. Milekic, whom I also respect, that never, ever, Tomislav Nikolic, while the president of our party in The Hague will, since he was preparing for treason along with Caneta Zappac, his mentor and mercenary, and Mrs. Radeta, may also be able to see if the investment is going well with the mustache and wig, since Beko has come, this is a face from the warrant and it is not excluded that such a character appears to visit him, as well to see if the investment is going well. So, he never officially filed that request, and you were the only one to talk about it, because you think that we, as a patriotic Serbian party, should be with our Russian brothers, with Putin's party, with Mironov's party, Mr. Zirinovski's party and all those who fight against globalisms that are against EU entry.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54125	National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54126	Very short. I think we understand each other now after the exchange of discussions. The only little misunderstanding that would remain, which I will remove, is that I did not really speak to any authorised representative of the European People's Party in that sense in any way about Tomislav Nikolic, whatever you heard. In that sense, it can also be misinformation. There are two other members of our group in the European People's Party from this Parliament besides me, who are not in the DSS and who can possibly ask what they know about whether they have had some conversations similar to that with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54127	National MP Dragan Šormaz, then MP Aleksandar Martinovic, and thus close the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54128	I will not use the terms of farce, unhappiness and character, etc., I will just say that over two thousand workers in Smederjevska "Zelvos" are currently on strike, six thousand workers in "North" Subotica, that is something we should do and that is something that Serbian citizens expect us to do, to say that this power is incompetent, as it is, and that the time has come for extraordinary parliamentary elections, and that is why Serbia's citizens, Tomislav Nikolic, need first of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54129	Ambassador Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54130	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, simply in order to avoid any confusion, I will now read the results of Mr Tomislav Nikolic's blood, the institution called the Clinical and Hospital Centre "Belgradeski", the last name and name of Nikolic Tomislav, the number of protocols 1807-107-1807.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54131	People's MP, I'd like you to present your argument in this replica without any medical records. Thanks to all MPs who participate in this debate through replicas, we are still in the context of mutual treatment obligations, not to quote data from hospital records. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54132	So, if someone is a public figure who has entered and entered the hunger and thirst strike to allegedly bring down the hate regime of Boris Tadic, I'm sorry, the citizens of Serbia are obliged to know the truth. So, the results were done on April 17th 2011, at 8:26 p.m., that's last night. Sodium, reference value 135-155, score 140.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54133	People's MP, please, data from any hospital records, no matter what kind of disease, established or unconfirmed, is done, are not for speaking and quoting, at least not as an argument you have in your replica. I am absolutely sure that you can use your replica with no such information and that it is our common interest, and therefore I ask you to sign up and use your two-minute replica without quoting any data from any medical records.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54134	If I can just read it, as far as the chloride 98-107 is concerned, it's 103. So, where good thing I am now to go to this Belgrade Clinical and Hospital Centre, although I am 25 years younger than Tomislav Nikolic, dear Serbian citizens, God forbid I have results like a man who allegedly doesn't eat or drink for three days.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54135	Thank you. Anyone else want a word by amendment to article 54? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 107. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 137th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 139th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 141st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 153rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 154th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 155th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 156 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 157th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 172 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 178, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 247 of the amendment was tabled by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 249 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs has submitted to the title above Articles 251 and 251 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 252. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to take this opportunity to comment on my fellow Prime Minister Jeremic's amendment. I'm going to use the time of the authorised representative, both for him and for what I'm going to talk about, as far as Article 252 of the amendment is concerned. I'd just like to say a few things in principle. It's a pity there's so little interest in this law. The SRS believes that, in principle, it also said, that something that Serbia really needs is a developed capital market and that Serbia, in the 1990s and 2000s, unfortunately squandered, lost time when it was meant to create many other preconditions based on which we could today's capital market to develop. Unfortunately, Serbia is still dominantly dealing with farces today, you are witnessing these three or four days of what is happening, instead of discussing in the Assembly and, of course, in public at all what is important and what will essentially solve our problem both in the workplace and in life at all. As for the amendment submitted by my colleague Vladan Jeremic, he refers to Article 249, i.e. the competent authority for the discharge of duties, the termination of employment. What's this about? Here, the legislator predicted that the deadline of the competent assembly body would be 60 days for the president or member of the commission to be resolved. We have suggested that the deadline be 30 days and we do not see why the Assembly would take two months or that a two-month period be allowed. Here, I am convinced that Mr Krasic, as chairman of the Finance Committee, would not mind having that deadline for seven days, and not 30, as we have proposed in the amendment, because we really believe that what is stated when conditions exist for someone as president or member of the commission to be resolved, the Assembly does not need more than seven days, or something like that to either confirm or refuse. Why it's been given for 60 days, we don't know, I believe even the promoter has no idea. It's probably in some law that was prescribed, so that's what we've translated the so-called good practice into our legislation. That's what we said in the principle debate. Some here have mentioned that in the Capital Market Act that is being adopted in Serbia, five EU directives have introduced 15 directives and several so-called EU regulations into the environment, so to this day they have failed to develop and raise their capital market to some decent level. We believe that 30 days is quite enough to confirm in the congregation’s competent body, or the Finance Committee, whether someone has acquired the conditions to no longer be a member of the Securities Committee. I think it would be very rational for this amendment to be accepted. As for the amendments I submitted to Article 252, we asked that Article 5 be deleted, and we asked that Article 252 be deleted, which says: "The President and the members of the Commission are exempt from voting in deciding on the requirements of the legal entities in which they participate in the capital". Why did we propose this? We believe that this is an surplus, given that Article 247 makes it very clear that the President, members and staff of the Commission cannot have ownership participation or manage legal persons to whom the Commission permits the exercise of activity or may represent the interest of those persons before the Commission, the state authorities or other bodies. Therefore, Article 247 has been prevented from being on the commission, which has a share in ownership, from managing those legal persons who give consent to work permits or any other commission. So, we think this was an extra one. We just had a technical impact on all of this. The explanation in this sense is very thin and sad. Here he says - the conclusion is that the president and members of the commission can participate in the capital of legal persons, except for those who are authorised to perform their duties. Well, we didn't challenge that. We have not disputed this, but you in law have made it impossible for one who has a stake in a legal person to be decided by the Securities Commission to be in the Securities Commission. But there is room and conditions here for doubt, a suspicion that the SRS is expressing both in public and in principle debates under this law, and here today in the debate in particular. Our suspicions refer to the Securities Commission and the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 2000, so for example, all governments have a very interesting relationship with securities commissions, and some members of the Securities Commission have quite run out of mandates, but there is no government response to such a thing. We tried to point out to you the fact that you look at the property cards of the Securities Commission, what they had, what they had, what they had, what they had, what they had, before they entered the Securities Committee and what they have today. Today, there are no representatives of the government in the capital market debate, so the Assembly informs us that Milutin Mrkonjic will be here, and Oliver Dulic appears here. Those who are really interested in the capital market don't even have a conversation here today. It's done very trendyly. As MPs a few days ago, we received the resignation of one of the members of the Securities Commission, Professor Dejan Malinic, through congregation material. I'll read what he wrote in his resignation. He wrote that he has resigned due to the way in which the Securities Commission has been led over the past few months, and in particular because of the lack of deep disagreement with regard to the continued functioning and development of the Securities Commission; strengthening the Commission and raising its human skills is a necessary process. However, the independence and independence of the Commission on Papers from the political and influences of various participants in the capital market and its functioning cannot certainly be ensured by the present non-transparent reception of new employees, the domination of the political and private interests of the burdened criteria in the process. Member of the Commission, perhaps he was the worst member of the Commission. I'm not going in at all. But when someone comes from the inside and sends a document to the public that confirms the political stance of the SRS, that you've been very tendingly closing your eyes in front of all the abuses that are happening in the Securities Commission, there's no greater success for us. The public must hear that all the problems, abuses, crime and whatever was going on under the jurisdiction or hat of the SRS Securities Commission indicated. You today have several members of the Charter Commission of the values against which they have been raised, or you file criminal charges. There are no government representatives here. This is how the capital market in the serious state doesn't develop. What you want to do, as well as what happens at the Clinical Center in New Belgrade, is all a farce. If you were different, maybe these things and farces in New Belgrade wouldn't happen. But in this country, you've done everything you can to make the institutions and the state lose all their meaning. The question arises – what is serious, what do we really need? What is it that citizens expect of us as representatives of the highest legislative body and tomorrow you who are obliged through the government to implement it? We're talking about the capital market, I repeat, without a representative of the government. The Securities Committee is still wild, doing what it wants and how it wants. No one cares about the problems there. We can't seriously regulate the capital market if there's no proper political will. You've brought crime and lawlessness into every pore and institution of society and state. When you look at the amendments that have been submitted to this law, you see no fundamental amendment that intervenes that essentially changes something. It's being intervened in a technical sense. This law as it is will not be a limit, but you are the problem for the development of the capital market, because you have destroyed everything that should represent action. People after 10 years of your government still don't know what the point is, how important it is, how important it is to have a healthy capital market, a healthy stock market, healthy investment funds, a healthy market picture and relations in the country. Today you have one stock exchange, a stock exchange that has the lowest market capitalisation on the European continent. It doesn't seem to be any different in the perspective, and Serbia has no fundamental development without it. Therefore, as well as much of what you have done with respect to European fanatics, this law is likely to be passed with 126 votes. It will stand somewhere and I believe, while you are in power, time for your application and will not be welcomed, even if you are replaced by some serious, responsible and conscious political people, it will take decades for Serbia to prepare and apply such a defined law in practice and on the capital market in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54137	Nine minutes and 30 seconds have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54138	I think this amendment is the right place to say something about the Securities Commission and, in general, how the capital market has been systematically set up. Ten years ago, we had a problem with regulations, how to define securities of value. These first diseases have been overcome, but now we have a problem with how that market works. It must be said that there are several very important entities on the market, besides banks, brokers, the first place is the NBS and the Securities Commission, and so is that Central Securities Register. We are now on the subject - the Securities Commission. As early as September 2009, the mandate of individual members of the Securities Commission expired. Several months before the end of the term of office, the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, thanks above all to the Service of the National Assembly, on a timely basis, to meet the possible problem, in accordance with the law, informed all parliamentary groups to submit their proposals in order to make appropriate changes to the Securities Commission. To this day, we have no suggestion. There were some initiatives. Some MP groups, it seems to me like PUPS, they've notified that they don't have a candidate, that they're not proposing anyone. If we put aside the problem now that I believe that this way of selecting the members of the Commission through parliamentary groups is bad, but to put it aside now, today we have a situation that in the Committee of Papers of the Values of the People to whom the mandate has expired and that fact cannot be corrected by any legal provision in which there would be expression of some gymnastics, where we pretend that they still exist, that they are legally working, because the word mandate has more of its synonyms. What is known to the general public, the first synonym for the word mandate is a warrant, and the second synonym for word mandate is time, a framework where something lasts. Now the question is how is it possible for a pro-democracy, pro-European pro, pro, pro, pro-government to tolerate this situation, a team before the rule of law is one of the conditions towards the ambition that you are leading this Serbia to. The answer is very simple. I'm notifying you, and I'm asking you to remember to see why that is. I'll show you best on one case. The first example was the situation with taking over the "Knjiz Milos" factory in Arangelovac. You saw then, the Malten Olympic Committee, all the athletes, and this, the kind of noise, the resignations of the board members, it seems to me that Milko Stimac, it seems to me that Dusan Bajec, etc. What happened happened, it's very well-known to the public. They kept working. So the resignation was a joke, literally. The mandate expired and they continued to work. Why did they keep working? Here's another example. You probably know how there was a break-in at the Metals Bank of Novi Sad. The first problem with the bank was when the Autonomous Region withdrew its deposits in that bank. That bank mostly worked with legal people. Remember who were the biggest depositors - the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the Colubara, the EPS. Later we found out about Darko Saric, then no one knew. The potential liquidity problems have led to temporary measures by the National Bank of Serbia to show that these measures are good. The Autonomous Region returned its deposit, the bank stabilized, and then we said it would be the Vojvodine Development Bank, which should enable the implementation of autonomous policy directed by the DOS wing. What's going on in the meantime? What's happening is that Autonomous Area wants to capitalize on the Metals Bank. Emissions of actions are being carried out and consent is required from the Committee on Papers to allow the Autonomous Region to buy those actions in the closed procedure. By law, the Autonomous Region can't buy because it's not a state, it's not a republic. The Ministry of Finance then gives one opinion and, on the basis of that opinion, the Securities Commission approves the authority of territorial autonomy to act as the Republic and to take action, becoming the majority owner of the Vojvodina Development Bank. Today, the Vojvodine Development Bank has its own exposures much more in Novi Pazar, Novi Varoša, Prijepolje and other places than it corresponds to the name of the bank. Now we hear there's an arrest. We'll probably hear who was in the board uniform, who was doing, what he was doing, who took as much, why he took, how he took. Who made it possible? The Commission for Securities of Value. Behind her, who doesn't have a mandate, everyone is hiding in this process. That's what Serbia knows. A great fighter against organized crime, the one you chose a few days ago for the Grand Prosecutors of State, etc., to keep your mouth shut. The only victim of all of it, left Jelasic, and you say that Darko Saric was through doing the job, so you ordered Milet Jerkovic to be your associate witness and now to tell you Pavicevic, I don't know what your staffs are called there. You think everyone's sucking oars, that nobody knows anything. All of this has to come on the charge anytime, like this situation -- gun tendon, one can't do without the other, when one falls, the other falls. So it will be with Gilas and Vukic, since they are joined by courts, because someone designed to make both power and opposition at the request of Brussels. Now it can be anything and everything. I wouldn't be surprised if he went on a hunger strike tonight and Tadic. He's shaking, let's make it happy, and we'll go over here through the Securities Committee, we'll go through other things. Put your local self-governments in anticipation of the election, to rule there, to have your election committees, your commission, to commit another fraud. Oh, it's not worth it anymore. You've exhausted those cards. On today, 75.5% of Serbian citizens will not hear about the EU, NATO and these things. He won't hear, remember, and you get the popularity and only let it grow for you, and at every step you prove that you hold nothing back from what you swore. Even so, he swore to the church, so you can see the curse of God coming. Thank you for not giving me a warning, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54139	You didn't deserve anything. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: This is no different than when I was punished. ) The MP says that this is no different than when he was warned, so punished. It's different, let's look at the stenograms. Eight minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. The 254th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 269 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs has submitted to the title above the 271st and 271st amendments to the 271st. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 275th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia has submitted to the title above the 281st and 281st amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs has submitted to the title above Articles 282 and 282 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia MPs has submitted to the title above members of 283th and 283rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This concludes the search of all amendments. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the DIVIS BUSINESS (individuals) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Prelević, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Šormaz, Nena Popović, Arsen Djurić, Lijeljan Djivić, Vladjan Jeremić, Vladjan Jerić, Milan Janažić and Milović as well as well as well as well as well as well as of the Republic of Ljubljana. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54140	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 6 which we have proposed to add a new position to this article, which reads: "Achieved abroad based on the implementation of investment works, as well as foreign exchanges which, in accordance with the guaranteed deadlines, the investment contractor kept as a guarantee of the regularity of the works carried out, the resident enters the country after the completion of the investment works, i.e. at the end of the warranty period". In fact, the current law provided for and prescribed that the profits made abroad by the resident on the basis of the implementation of investment works should be entered into the country, and these amendments to the law delete the obligation and leave it to the resident to only report to the Currency Inspectorate on the amount of profits achieved. While the proposed law shows, as well as the explanation, that the objective of amending this law is to further liberalise the external trade regime and meet certain requirements of the World Trade Organisation, you have stated in your mind that this change has arisen as a result of the demands of certain members of the World Trade Organisation, it is absolutely unacceptable and such a provision in the law is in complete contrast with the financial interests of the Serbian state. I think that when you write laws, you should write them in accordance with the interests of the Serbian and Serbian state, not the demands of individual members of the World Trade Organisation. If the proposed text of the law were adopted in this form, it would lead to a new increase in the payment deficit, which in 2010 alone amounted to nearly three billion dollars, and at a time when there are not enough foreign investments, it would endanger the stability of the dinars and increase the inflation rate too high anyway. I urge you to reconsider this proposed amendment and accept it, because it would be absurd to adopt the text of the law as you have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54141	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National Bank of Serbia submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment adding a new Article 10a after Article 10a. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric together submitted to the 11th amendment. MP Arsen Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54142	We have submitted an amendment to Article 11 amending Article 26 of the existing law, where we have proposed that Article 5 be deleted. In the amendments to the law, you have provided for this position 5, that state-owned public undertakings can provide guarantees to non-residents or foreign legal entities to perform certain tasks, i.e. to raise loans. It's absolutely unacceptable and I think it carries an extremely high risk. I recall that the state of Serbia now owes close to a billion and a half euros to its public enterprises through guarantees it now owes to its public companies or over a billion euros or over a billion euros, so to those public enterprises, which are in debt and whose Serbian budget guarantees are now giving them the opportunity to give guarantees to foreign legal persons, I think it is absolutely unacceptable, especially if it is considered that Serbia's public debt is close to 45% of the gross social product, or close to the upper limit. We could be in a situation where, with this kind of guarantee to foreign legal persons, we can go beyond that upper limit of duty. For that reason, I think we should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54143	The 12th amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Since the Finance Committee has not spoken, the amendment is under review and you are entitled to your two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that the representatives of the authorities have recognised that this amendment to the SRS parliamentary club improves the text of the law. In the event that non-residents, the branch of a foreign legal entity operating through a resident account, are transferring from these accounts abroad, they must make their tax obligations to the Republic of Serbia. We have suggested that they must submit a confirmation of the tax authority to confirm that the tax obligations have been settled. We felt that as the proposer wrote, the law would remain incomplete, because there would be no obligation to apply a certificate of paid tax, so that there could be abuse, that tax obligations would not be settled, and the transfer from the account to abroad would be made. Then everything else would be left on the competent inspection authorities. If they were to establish irregularities in the control process, only then could it be known that such a thing was done, but then it would be too late. In order not to do so, it will have to submit a confirmation of the payment of the taxpayer's obligation to the Republic of Serbia and will only then be able to carry out the transfer from the account.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54145	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54146	This amendment provides for another new position to be added in Article 12: "The competent tax authority is required to issue, at the request of non-residents operating through non-resident accounts and residents, a branch of a foreign legal person operating through a resident account, a certificate of outstanding tax obligations within three days". Practically, in Articles 12, 2nd and 3rd, we would become sections 3 and 4. However, as the proposings explain, this amendment is not accepted because they say it regulates issues concerning the law governing tax procedures and administrations and are not subject to the law. You could have just heard from the presentation of counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic what was, in fact, the essence of these amendments that we have submitted to the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Affairs Act. It is therefore true that the Tax Procedure and Administration Act, i.e. the Administrative Procedure Act, regulates in such a way as to provide for two days or, if some correction is needed, even up to 15 days, this amendment was also a desire to enable export-related businessmen to do so without difficulty. So they're scheduled for three days, so you don't slow down this whole procedure. I think this amendment really makes sense and should be accepted, because it will only improve the text of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54147	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Milan Lapcevic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54148	Dear Presidency, we have tabled an amendment to Article 12 which deletes Article 4 of the existing law. Since there is a sub-premation of international law and if the international agreement on the avoidance of double taxation is regulated that the non-resident does not pay tax on the basis of the work done, there is no tax duty, and the provisions of Article 4 which regulates this matter completely without any legal relevance. Namely, if the non-resident tries to transfer funds from accounts to the Republic of Serbia and the state asks him to deliver evidence of tax payments, he will appeal to the provisions of a double taxation avoidance contract, which, of course, will exercise his right to do so. Therefore, there is absolutely no reason to have this attitude 4. We have ratified in this House dozens of various international agreements that avoid double taxation of those companies operating in Serbia and abroad, and we believe that such an amendment is absolutely meaningful and that it should be accepted. On the other hand, I'd like to say a few more words as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group regarding these laws. In fact, it's completely incomprehensible what kind of economic policy is being run in this country? Yesterday, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Vuk Djokovic said that filling the Republic of Serbia's budget is better than projected, or planned, by 5% higher than it was in the previous year, and yet we hear these days on the news that the prime minister at the IMF and World Bank meeting in Washington has made a new debt to Serbia for about 800m dollars, of which $400m will go to cover the budget deficit. Two months ago, we ratified a contract with commercial banks, specific to Sosiet General Bank, for the same $400 million to cover the budget deficit. It turns out that every two months for about half a billion dollars, Serbia only owes to cover the budget deficit. Tell me – which country can function by taking so many amounts of money every two months to cover the budget deficit and to cover huge public spending. Now we have extended 15 more days to Telekom Austria to improve its offer, to somehow force them to reach these projected 1.4 billion euros to sell to Telecom, so that we can post-poly put those money into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, cover some holes and prepare the elections. Indeed, such an economic policy, whose results can obviously be seen in the everyday life of citizens, where salaries fell by more than 100 euros, where inflation is the largest in Europe and where each month or every two months Serbia is committed to covering the budget deficit. I didn't hear that there's a perpetum of a mobile that you're always taking some credits and not paying it back. According to the same state secretary, Serbia had a 41.2% of GDP debt at the end of 2010. According to some economic experts, this debt exceeds 43% of GDP, and with these two debts in 2011 of two times $400m and with an agreed 800m loan from Russia, we are certain to cross that magic number of 45% of GDP, when the country is entering a debt crisis and is practically threatened by bankruptcy. If this keeps up how you started, really no story of early elections, or any change will have no effect because when you completely destroy the country, then even a wizard can't get her out of such a disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54149	Two minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54150	As an authorised representative, we've heard already, there have been several amendments, I haven't responded because I think it's absurd in this situation to appear and pretend like everything in the country is normal. Now we're like discussing amendments, and here's the minister to answer. And this amendment by colleagues Lapčević is very good, previously Mr Arsen Djuric spoke of an amendment, also good, where it is said that we are really in danger and that we are in a position to be a highly in charge of the country. There's no one to answer, there's no minister to tell the MPs why he doesn't accept those amendments and we should discuss it here, and we're borrowing the state, we heard, just because of covering the deficits 150,000 euros a day. These 800m dollars of new debts are 330,000 euros a day of new debt, without interest, when they return to Serbian citizens. This whole situation is not clear to me. How far does that go? The colleague said well – the 800 million agreed with Russia if the projects are finished. It's a deal with China, too, if the projects are finished, i.e. This bridge. How long and how long will we be in charge? We should at least be in charge of what is important because the only way Serbia is getting out of the crisis -- investment, subsidising the economy, investing in agriculture, but that's not here. Here's just covering public spending and nothing else. During that time, we repeat, they strike two large companies "Zelvos" and "North Subotica", they don't have a job, they don't do anything, while we're covering and borrowing land for officials and police, among which unfortunately, I said, there's still an undiscovered murderer, Ranko Panic, and there's still a cop on the streets.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54151	Two minutes have been spent using the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54152	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Serbian citizens, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 and asked to add a new position of 9 which reads: "Residency and non-residents use foreign exchanges." The amendment was not accepted. The point is that in a formal sense this provision is incorporated, i.e. to preserve the provision because in the old law there was this provision, and the essence is clear, so only one formal distinction in this article. It's about the point. It's a law that liberalises foreign trade, which is good. Businesses, and we must allow citizens to have fewer barriers in foreign trade. Less barriers mean faster flow of goods and money, and this will primarily allow the economy to realize what we expect in these difficult economic crisis conditions. However, we must mention that we have had a deficit in foreign trade business for years. The deficit is growing objectively year by year, although it does not appear nominally financially. Why? Because we don't have an adequate economic policy that will stimulate exports. Our exports are getting smaller and smaller from year to year, regardless of our financial exports in 2010, but objectively looking at prices, price policy and world prices that were privileged for our products, because we exported mainly agricultural products and food industry products that grew significantly in 2010 and on this basis we had slightly higher exports. In objective terms, this government does not have an adequate policy of incentive for exports. At the meeting of the Committee on Industry a few days ago, representatives of the Union of employers were invited. They asked the Industry Committee to do everything possible in terms of creating conditions to increase the liquidity of the economy. The economy is inequitable, a huge number of businesses have been blocked. On the other hand, our economy is exposed to huge unfair competition from abroad and cannot survive in this situation. They pointed to one phenomenon, and here comes the Minister as a representative of the Government, to try to take one set of measures, and this is one measure, that import customs duties on re-promaterials and fixed assets are reduced or excluded, or that these funds are paid on imports, including VAT, are paid at later times, after a month, two etc., in the realization of all that is an integral part of the job. Our economy is in an unfavourable position because it is placed in a position that when a job is contracted, re-promatter is introduced. On imports, customs duties are paid, very serious customs duties, and they are paid the moment the goods enter, and VAT is paid. It's only then that basic material enters production. When the manufactured product is invoiced, the finished product is paid VAT. From what means? Credit funds. How is this economy, which is collapsing, which is hugely indifference, from where does it come from? They go to banks and pay the most interest in Europe and fees and all that is an integral part of that credit business. This economy cannot endure and demand, insist, and among other things from this Parliament, that we revise the provisions of the VAT law, and help them, without it, we have no economy. This economy is about extinction. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54153	Two minutes and 50 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The Mother's Board didn't come forward, so the amendment is under review. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The government has also accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. The Finance Committee has not spoken out, so the amendment is under review. National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54154	This amendment to Article 19 applies to persons engaged in exchange operations. Future exchanges will be in the jurisdiction of the foreign inspectorate, not in the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia, as has been so far. In particular, in Article 19(2), the Proposer defined that the powers to carry out trading operations for a period of five years would be seized by an authorised gearbox that had previously been seized at least three times over the course of two years in a trading venue or in all trading venues. We felt that there was a need to tighten the conditions for confiscation of power and that a period of time to be observed should be limited to a year. During the year, shapeshifters who had already committed certain violations, more specifically those who acted contrary to Article 19(1), brought themselves in an opportunity to remain without authority twice, the third time would lose power, and at a time period of five years, and the promoter saw that it was more appropriate for the observed period to be a year and accepted this amendment by the SRS parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54155	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. No one wants a word. The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54156	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to article 31 relating to article 62 of the basic law, which is that the fine, prescribed by this article is between five and 150 thousand, to change this minimum amount and to have 20,000 dinars in it. I believe that the preventive measure and that criminal monetary policy in some way always pays off and that it can reduce the number of violations. This article lists as many as 24 violations that can be committed by a resident natural person. I'll list only a few I consider the most important. The natural person resident shall make payment or issue a payment order or transfer on the basis of a contract where no real price is indicated or on the basis of untrue documents. I believe that if someone works on a contract where there is no real price or on the basis of untrue documents, and if he commits an offence in that case, I find that the fine of 5,000 dinars is not adequate and is not appropriate for this offence. Also, if a resident makes a natural person pay and transfer capital on the basis of direct investment abroad contrary to the law governing foreign trade or if he makes payments for the purpose of obtaining his or her own immovable property abroad contrary to the law governing property and legal relations, or if he makes payment for the purchase of foreign debt, long-term charters of value contrary to Articles 12(2) and 3(3) of this Act. Then, if he makes payment, payment, transfer, breach of the conditions and manner prescribed by the NBS or if he keeps foreign bank foreign exchanges on account, contrary to the NBS regulation. Furthermore, if it pays foreign exchange and dinar traffic via the bank or if it carries out foreign payments by current and capital transactions contrary to the NBS regulation. I simply believe that the resident is a natural person if he does not comply with the regulations given by the NBS that the fine of 5,000 dinars is certainly not appropriate to that violation. Also, if the transactions referred to in Article 33(1) of this Act are not carried out under conditions and in a manner prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if foreign exchanges and effective foreign money purchases and sells outside the foreign exchange market or if it acts contrary to the rule of law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So all these violations are far more serious and far more adequate and more appropriate would be that the penalty is minimum of 20,000, up to 150 thousand. I repeat once again that criminal monetary policy would certainly act preventively and certainly reduce the number of these violations.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54157	One minute of the MP's time was used. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National Bank of Serbia submitted to Article 36 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. We have exhausted this search in detail on the total number of amendments to the bill. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on INVESTICION FONDS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: together Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pelevic, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Šormaz and Dragan Šormaz, Marina Toman, Dragan Stevanović and Milorad Buha. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of the 21st People's MP group, Forward Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54158	With this Article 2, my colleague Marina Toman just wanted to technicalally fix this, so that at some point we would not get into a situation, or you who are proposing this law would not come into a situation that because of the fact that the Law on the Market of Papers will come into effect, that is to say, to remain out of force when the Capital Market Act begins to apply. Namely, I will only read you from the original law what is said in this position 6 which becomes item 5 – the management company is obliged to adhere to the provisions of the law governing the securities market in its business. What we're looking for is to add the capital market. We remind you that we have just completed a search in the particulars of the law governing the capital market and its degree of effect, and that by applying it, the Securities Market Act will be off-limits. Since that is the case, a colleague of Marina Toman wanted to be involved here and put in a provision, that is, a law governing the capital market so that we don't get into a situation where we change this law tomorrow, I repeat, when this is put out of effect. And in this law, you can't say anything different than what we said about the Capital Market Act. We think and think that this is really extreme, that it's on the sidelines. After all, so was your relationship to this investment or fund industry. In Serbia today, you have only twenty companies to manage, which funds, which investment funds, even those pension funds that you have given to legislation and the opportunity to develop private pension funds there since 2003. The SRS asks you – at what level is the awareness of society raised in this regard? How many users or people today have a commitment, freedom, courage and trust to invest their resources in private pension funds that are in the form of investment funds, without talking about something else, something more serious, which is a basic way, a model or purpose of funding in a developed world, or a world that has an improved and developed capital market. As far as investment funds are concerned, we repeat that the overall economic and economic climate in this country is such that they will not be able to get their size, intensity and importance as they should have, and I will remind you that the SRS is in the 1990s, in its establishment and definition of economic principles and economic programmes, spoke and insisted on the importance of investment funds, both action and certainly capital markets.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54159	Three minutes have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. No one wants a word. To Article 4. The amendment was tabled by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. No one wants a word. in Article 5. The amendment was tabled by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. No one wants a word. To Article 7. The amendment is MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54160	This is how we expressed our political position. Expressed the least said reserve compared to your commitment to narrow down any economic and political story and end up on the EU. You wake up with her, you sleep with her, I guess. For the SRS, it is objectively political and, in any other sense, not acceptable, and even here, you have restricted the state, that possibly investment funds, which I repeat, know themselves in what situation, have the opportunity to invest, invest in countries that are not members of the OECD, or the EU. You have made it clear in the law that it even states that the government will have the opportunity to expand the investment opportunities in other countries in a sublegal act. We felt that the state should not in any way limit any investment fund, invest, invest or show interest in the market at any part of the globe and is a very interesting explanation that the proposed or government of the Republic of Serbia has given as a reason why this amendment is being rejected. In addition, it is said that the proposal remains on the view that at the current level of investment funds, as well as in the entire domestic financial market, there is a need to keep the investment limits in the financial instruments of the issuers from the OECD Member States and the EU, as well as neighbouring countries. The biggest risk of all other countries is inadequate control and exchange of information with our Securities Commission, which is the OECD State, as well as with neighbouring countries. I have one analysis that has not been done in this year, done in the year before, and it is very interesting that 15 countries with developed market capital, i.e. with the strongest market capitalisation, of them 15, three are neither EU member nor OECD. How can you say, in whose name you speak, that you have a mistrust in the capital market, such as China, Russia, Hong Kong. It's three states, and I read them in order on that scale, with developed market capital. China is third in the world, not a member of the OECD. Which is why someone in Serbia couldn't have this kind of business relationship with China, with Russia, certainly with which you don't exploit the economic benefits and privileges that you have so far and restrict us by law, that is, the underdeveloped and poor industry you limit and deny the possibility of such a thing, you leave the possibility of defining in the sub-legislative act. For what? It is dangerous and sick, and Serbia's economy today very clearly shows this, when ideology, missed and sick ideology and politics burden the economic ambitions and economic opportunities of a country. After these 15, there goes a list of 27 countries, which also have the most developed capital markets on the globe. Of them 27, seven are not OECD members, not to list those further, the third group where Serbia is, and according to these analyses is only one country in Serbia's environment. You look where we are, what we are and where we are with the capital market. After ten years of your authority, without any ideological definition, or ideological barriers to the country's capital market developing, as far as you've arrived and what you've done with the elements that make up the capital market. My question for government representatives is, why is this limited to OECD countries, or EU countries? Then why have you not introduced the principles and standards governing all these EU countries in these ten years? Why weren't you guided by the experiences of some other states? We were just commenting, we finished discussing the Capital Market Act. In the Capital Market Act you have introduced in Serbia options, Horvards, beams, and find it in the law in Croatia. Do you know what the futures are called in Croatia? Future. Come on, they stole our tongue, but they're not ashamed of the same one. Whom you fake, what we are, Americans, English, and you have the Constitution. The constitution obliges you to use Serbian and Cyrillic letters. You can't go into the future like that. By painting and writing the future in English, rather than by putting it into norms of the law that you can and indeed apply it on the ground and in practice in Serbia. That is why we have responded to this amendment, we believe that Serbia is the victim and hostage of your ideological and political definitions, which are primarily based on European integration. Of course, we believe that over time we will succeed and the public in Serbia will be convinced that this farce on the EU and European perspective is broken in Serbia, and as some once said that patriotism is not poured into tractors, the SRS thinks that the EU is not pouring into tractors, that it is not eating or drinking, it is living and doing something else entirely, and we believe that we will be able to convince the public in Serbia of the senselessness and unsustainability of the stories you have been selling for the past ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54161	The time of the mandated representative and two minutes of the parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? A group of the 21st People's Ambassadors of the Progressive Group submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st National Ambassadors of the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) This concludes the search on all amendments, and I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE FINANCE LIZING LICENCE (specificities) I ask the National Assembly to deliver material with amendments prepared for the search in details of the 8th item of the agenda to the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, so that we can follow the work together. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Nenad Popović, Arsen Đurić, Milan Lapčević, Sreto Perić, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Marković, Mirko Munjic, Milorad Buha, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Peljić, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mico Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šormaz, Dragan Šormaz, Aleksandar Pejčić and Zoran Krasic. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Finance Committee, as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Milan Lapcevic submitted the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sreto Perić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Financial Lising Act was passed in 2003, in 2005, it had its first amendments and additions, and now the law on amendments and additions to the Financial Lising Act is being discussed. He had an extremely good application at some point and was competitive with bank loans. This was up to the start of the global economic crisis, and later the situation changes somewhat in favour of bank loans, not only because of the global economic crisis, but simply ceases the possibility of people investing. They need cash to survive, and then financial licking loses the race with bank loans. There are two basic reasons why you joined the amendments and additions to the Financial Lising Act. The first reason is that you want to expand the subject of the financial lease, and the second reason is that you want to increase capital capital from 100,000 euros to 500 000 euros. You are estimating that this will not negatively affect around 17 companies dealing with financial leases, as they own 90m euros in capital at the moment, and it is necessary under the provisions of the law on amendments and additions to the Financial Lising Act to have about eight and a half million euros. Right in that bush and there's a rabbit, you want to protect, you want to reduce the number of interested in setting up companies that would be engaged in financial leases, and actually financial lease means intervening between the financial service provider and the financial service provider, where the financial leaser retains property rights on the subject of financial lease, and the recipient of the financial lease has the opportunity to use the item. The amendment I'm talking about now refers to Article 4. It's a bill of law. So far, Article 4 said that the subject of financial lysing was a mobile non-consumable thing, equipment, facilities, vehicles and the like. Now you have proposed to add the words "and the immovable thing which may be subject to property rights in terms of the law governing property-legal relations". We have suggested that, in addition to this, it is more precise and clear that this new or otherwise envisaged object of the lising is also new and old building facilities, residential space, business space and factory halls. It means that article 4 is precisely what we have proposed in the amendment. The government did not accept this amendment, citing the reasons why it did not accept the amendment. He says, "the amendment is not accepted, among other things, that the law does not aim to inform those to whom it applies." It is primarily that the law does not aim to inform, but to regulate certain areas. How effective application and good application can be expected and the impact of the law on those to whom it applies, if they are not informed. It seems to me that the interpretation of legal proposals, both in principle and when it comes to individual amendments, best informs citizens what they can expect in the coming period. No financial lease law, nor the banking credit laws can solve the accumulated problems of Serbian citizens, so neither can this one nor others who are in preparation. Of course, the conversion of the building land that Minister Dulic was talking about here will not be able to solve the problems of Serbian citizens, but will be able to strengthen the positions of individual tycoons and who have become the owners of everything in Serbia. Here, it seems to me, the basic objective of changing and supplementing this law is to seal on 17 companies that already exist, and at no other time is possible to expand the number of financial lysing providers. There should be an open game in the financial capital market. Those who are the most qualitative, those who are the cheapest and the best for the users, whether it is a bank loan, whether it is a financial licking, that the users themselves identify themselves on the basis of what is offered. You don't want that, you want to reduce the number of those who will provide such opportunities. Here, from one law to another, it's always limited to something. Now the lawyers will be able to deal with those who secure their performance, so I'll call her. It could have been an alternative, who wanted to secure and who didn't. He doesn't have to continue to perform that work. Clients, committees and those who appear as users of these services will be able to decide and that would be what's called a competition game. You actually want to protect those who are your logistics or some other support. You'll only be able to make some next choices. About that, Krasic will tell you whether something will be in November, December. In December, they say, they announce January.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54163	Three minutes and 20 seconds used by the MP's group. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54164	Article 5 of amending and supplementing this law refers practically to the existing Article 6. The Financial Lising Act. First, I will read the proposal of a member, i.e. Article 1 where it says that – the lease agreement is concluded between the leaser and the leaser, which obliges the leaser to transfer to the leaser the power to hold and use the leaser at a specified time in which the leaser enjoys all the benefits and risks associated with the ownership, and the leaser is obliged to pay him an agreed fee within the agreed time limits. We suggest erasing most of this attitude, because we think that what comes next in this post-point attitude is a practical explanation, or let me say the definition of what the losin jobs are. Why are we suggesting this? Because in Article 2 paragraph 1, we have a clear definition of what financial lease business is, so after only a few members, you repeat that definition again, instead of simply standing here a short sentence - what is a lease contract, because these jobs are defined in Article 2. What are we proposing this for? Because this law is quite extensive and we believe that, in any place where it is possible to simplify it, when we simplify it, it is also much more understandable and easier to apply it. To us who have proposed this amendment, it is absolutely not clear why you had to repeat this long definition of what is the business of the lease. If you're defining that in Article 2, then there's no need to repeat it all again when you're talking about what a lease agreement is?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54165	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Ambassador Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54166	This amendment, which refers in fact to Article 6, where a change in attitude 2 is required, has regulated the issue of essential elements or, as you say, the mandatory elements of the lease agreement. So in this position you predict that the lease contract must contain the purchase value of the lease item, then the amount of the individual war, the number and time of payment, the time of the contract, as well as the place, the time limit, the way and conditions of delivery and the manner and conditions of transfer of the property, as well as the manner and conditions of the extension of the term of the contract. According to you, it's mandatory, as you say, the elements of this lease agreement. With this amendment, I asked for the extension of this item 2, by adding the words "port, installation, decommissioning, running maintenance, replacement of parts, services and technical and technological improvements and training of the staff of the lease recipients". In an explanation for not accepting this amendment, the Government states that the mandatory elements of the lease agreement are listed and that the contractors, as it is said in the explanation, can provide for some other elements themselves. What I have proposed with the amendment aims to complete a member who lists the elements of the contract. Why, for example, the delivery method, which you foresee as a mandatory element of the lease contract, is more important than e.g. transport costs, what was I looking for as a supplement to Item 2? By proposing not to accept this amendment, any contract can actually be drawn up or written. You predict the subject of the contract, and you say for the other elements, the contractors will see for themselves. But it's not good, and it's necessary to actually predict all the essential elements of the contract, if you want this to be regulated in the right way. If that's what you wanted, you should have accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54167	The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Ambassador Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54168	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, the essence of this amendment is to make legal and technical corrections and to be made in Article 5. The bill's proposal, and in Article 6 of the existing law, in paragraph 7, put a point stuck and add the words "which must be clearly defined as an integral part of the lease contract". Since this Article 5 is concerned, that is, the formal legal conditions for the conclusion and the elements of the lease agreement are concerned. The proposal is to install this provision as an integral part, because it is very important and essentially brings certain improvements in the legal sense. It is the 7th point on the delivery of lising items, so it is said in the provisions of the law that the delivery of the lising object is chosen by the lysing recipient, and can also be chosen by the lysing provider. That's not clear enough and incomplete. The proposal of the SRS is to clearly indicate in the lease agreement who is the lysing supplier and who chooses it. This alternative solution is unacceptable. In response to our amendments, you say that the law does not prohibit or restrict that the lease agreement contains other elements of the contract reached by the parties. This is not disputed, but in the very contract in a formal and legal sense, it must stand for the delivery of the lease, with all other essential elements that form an integral part of the lease contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54169	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54170	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have submitted an amendment to Article 5, so that in the 7th proposed text, part of the text "can be selected by the leaser" is deleted. So, what's this all about? In the bill of law, you gave the possibility that both the recipient and the leaser could choose the supplier, i.e. the supplier of the good or the object of the lising. In view of the fact that the lease is one financial business that is concluded in connection with the procurement of certain goods or leases for the needs of the leaser, the leaser in this case appears only as a financial institution providing financial resources for the realisation of the job. We believe it is necessary to delete this part of the text, i.e. that the decision on the supplier manufacturer has the sole recipient of the lease, because he initiated this job and this job is done in his favor and on his account. Because there is a possibility that there are several manufacturers, or suppliers of the lising objects. It is certainly possible to get into a situation where the choice or decision of the recipient and the leaser differ, so I believe that this option should be left exclusively to the leaser, because it also finances the subject of the purchase, i.e. the subject of the lease. You, in your explanation for not accepting this amendment, have stated that this exists as a possibility, but it does not have to be necessary. That's why I think we should accept this amendment, because it's perfectly logical that the leaser has the right to choose the manufacturer and supplier for the goods he wants to obtain and which he pays.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54171	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54172	We have also submitted an amendment to Article 6, in which we have proposed to add a new item 3 which reads – the representation of the lease fee is an integral part of the lease contract and as such must be directly stated in its content. It is true that in Article 5, this formulation of ours has been partially accepted. However, that should also be the case in Article 6, with our formulation being more precise and comprehensive. I say this because practice has shown that credit or lease contracts often charge citizens some costs that are not justified. This makes use of their indiscriminateness, indifference or financial domination of these institutions and thus earns an unwarranted profit. So, aside from the high interest that they charge, they charge citizens, who riot their wars, written warnings that warn them not to settle their wars. Lately, we've also had cases of house-leasing charging for citizens, and at high prices, and phone calls informing them that they didn't settle their obligations in time. So I think this fee bill must be an integral part of the contract. In addition to this, the fact is that when you look at the structure of the lising market, 88.6% were interest revenues in 2009, and these revenues decreased to 60% in 2010, which means that revenues have increased based on some other services. That's why I think this lease bill must be an integral part of the contract, i.e. that citizens must be clearly and precisely defined all obligations they have towards the lollipop home. It is obvious that by not accepting this and the previous amendment, the licking house had a lot of influence in writing this law, because it was more of a concern for them than for citizens who buy certain goods on the lease.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54173	The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Đuric, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54174	In Article 7, we have proposed that Article 1 be deleted for the reason of simplifying the text of this law, because already in the next article of the proposal for this law a legal form which the leaser may have – DOO or AD. It is therefore clear that they are also subject to the provisions of the company law governing their establishment, legal responsibility and business. As this text of law is extensive, we find it necessary to simplify it in those parts where there is no need for these formulations to be repeated. I think the simplest thing is to adopt a amendment like this, because there's no reason to duplicate it in different members of the same form.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54175	Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 7th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54176	Because of the public, I would have to remind myself of the chronology of how it happened for Serbia to get the Financial Lising Act. That was in 2003. The law was defended by Minister Goran Pitic at the time. That's the minister who didn't have an oath. Remember, Mrs. Comic? To strengthen his argument, he even brought in a professor from law school. Remember, he was sitting in the front row? When he heard, after 10 minutes of our criticism, the professor picked himself up, ran out and said they never called him to defend these laws again. It's just to remind the public. By laughter, I can see that you remember the chronology that was happening. However, I must remind you that Serbia's predicated financial lysing is Bosko Ristic. Boki, still in Nis, as a lawyer, developed a financial lysing system with a guy who worked at a gas station, called him a Romanian. They built an Anila savings company. They bought cars through it, sold to citizens. That Anil broke and Bole fled to Holland so he wouldn't serve the army. After a year, he came back. Freed him from military service after he had water in his knee and then continued to be a lawyer and intern. It is only for a reminder, to see the history of the financial lising in Serbia, to see exactly what the merits are, so it is the chairman of the board, so it is in the council for the judiciary, for the police, in the Bar of Lawyers and Dresses, it is written by the constitutional charters, etc. I'd like to go back to the Financial Lising Act now. Mrs. Comic, I must offer a commendation. We've finally come up with something that's an approximate definition of financial lysing. It's a little more specific now in Article 2. The bill defines what financial licking is. However, when this continues to dissipate, it is evident that something does not add up. Let's get in line. So in 1994, the first political party to put investment funds into its political programme, the economic part, was the SRS. The first one was written by voluntary pension funds. It's just to remind the public. Now, the idea with investment funds is that a man who has the resources can make more money through investment funds than if he were going to put those funds at the bank. It's simple, the interest is bigger. It's a lot more of a risk, because investment funds trade securities out of value. When it comes to voluntary retirement insurance, the situation is exactly the same. It is additionally, additionally, where a citizen himself assumes the obligation to provide his material security, and his money is voluntarily provided in a voluntary pension fund growth every year much more than he has put on savings. So, an investment fund, a voluntary pension fund -- plus for a citizen, by definition. When it comes to financial leases, due to incomparably greater security than classic bank loans, it should be more favourable for the citizen, for the economy, for the entrepreneur. That means, by definition, financial lease is cheaper than buying the same thing through a bank loan. Is that how it is with us? It's not. That's where this whole thing is. Generally, the interest in Serbia is extremely large. What's the point of justice? At great risk. Explain to me how it can be a big risk when most of the loans are secured by mortgages? Is it possible that in our real estate market there is such instability? You can tell that to the uninformed. Belgrade is still more expensive than some metropolis in the world. What's this about? It is the Vienna Agreement, where foreign banks are guaranteed a corresponding profit derived from the country. Legally. Now, the story of banks, the story of financial leases, that's the story of foreigners. Remember 2003? It is explicitly forbidden to go on a licking run. Why? To be a bank job. Why? Because buying immovable property, providing immovable property for a longer period, 20, 25 years, etc., is a risky business because of the deadline and the bank should bear, in a way, the consequences of that risk and through the banking system can be provided with funds for it, because banks can finance long-term workers, investors, etc. The system's broken. Why the crack? The banks won't take off interest. That's a good dick right there. Then you throw in financial licking. Compare financial leases today under this property and interest law that banks provide for these same immovableities and tell me what the difference is? There's no difference. You are preparing one regulation, Mrs. Komic, it is announced, a law on the protection of users of financial services. Here, let's assume that this law was passed and that it looks about the way it's written in the draft or proposal, that we don't go into details, that you don't tie me to Gaš Knezevic, because he and the bill knew how to apply it. So, if that were the way it was written, was the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Lising Act in line with this bill? It's not. Is the market prepared for the application of these regulations? It's not. What's the play? In the ad – who better and better to present it, deceives the citizens. A girl can drink coffee, you've seen those commercials, 4.5%, etc. Is that real life? When the National Bank takes an area within a law to regulate it in particular, I am absolutely certain that this area will not be regulated, that it will be selectively left in holes. Here's something that's not covered by the amendment. Mrs. Comic, it concerns the Law on Bond Relations, so there's a connection to the amendment. Let's get in line. The lease deal requires three signatures from the three sides, and the financial lease contract does not require three signatures. Now someone explain how it's possible? It used to be that a financial-lising organization only deals with financial-lising business, and now you say it's mostly business. Now there will be leases of the lising item, especially the one returned for a broken or failed financial lease contract. It's all supposed to come down to the purchase of passenger cars. It's a rapper for everyone, and there's buses. So you made certain carriers in Belgrade commit to buying the proper quality of the bus, so you enabled the licking of selected houses. You're wrong here to define a simulated contract, but I don't want to tell you about it, you're going to change it in some subsequent amendment to this law. Furthermore, what is the purpose of the National Bank to make final decisions and decide on the rights, obligations and legal interests of legal and natural persons laid down by this law? Explain to me, please, why are you bringing down to the administrative matter something that is a pure bond? The financial lease agreement, when signed and delivered well, is a pure bond. Why would the National Bank get involved here in rights, obligations and other matters concerning contracts, or contractual parties? Now you're going to say to protect. Woe to him whom you protect, not specifically you, but he who protects him with such regulations. Further, evidence that the founding capital is from its own resources. Now, why don't you explain to me how you're gonna know if your own funds are either credit or credit, credit, credit, credit from earlier or otherwise? No, but you want to, because you want to share some locations and now I see a connection here why Mr. Dulic is present for these points of the agenda, because there are only real estates here. Okay, now, Oliver, you can put as many hands on your head as you want, but only in this set of laws do you get real estate. You know, there used to be -- where there was money, there's G 17 plus, and now there's -- where there's immobilities, there's Oliver Dulic. And the conversion, now you've given the right to conversion, so the military took the location, now you're raising funds. Make sure you don't get a Panamanian and those who finance there without a license, etc. Now that this conversation is headed towards Breck, according to this, and according to that, and they wouldn't come to you to strike, they wouldn't visit you, I'm sure. Look, let's move on. As soon as you took it now to regulate the status issues of the leaser, the assembly, the board of directors, directors, etc., I find it very suspicious. Why did you take that to regulate? In addition to the laws on companies, where there is a platform for all forms of organization, and for the company of action and society with limited responsibilities, etc., and now there is especially something to be done here. Well, as soon as there's something special going on, let me tell you the truth. As soon as something falls off the general principle. Now we see, at that speed, you forgot, so you said this - the general conditions of business are proposed by the Executive Board to the Management Board, and in the responsibility of the Management Board it will not determine, that it brings and prescribes general operating conditions. It's just amazing. What does it mean to you – he is obliged to secure the signature of another member of that committee? The Executive Board of Lising Providers shall have at least two members, and the President shall also represent the leaser. He who represents and represents is a responsible person. However, the board of directors responds to you. What have you entered this ban – representing and representing the leaser president of the Executive Board, but all is important if there is another member of the Executive Board? What is that, a bank guarantee? I see that's how it gives the banking guarantee to the Soviet Generale Bank. When they give a bank guarantee, they owe someone there, and then the French guy to parafisce just in case. I just can't figure out what you wanted to do, but I know something's going on behind this. He says, let me not tell you here now, that I don't shake you very much because you're in so much sadness right now, that I don't add this trouble to you here. Now you've expanded that the returned object of the lising can be the object of the lease. I don't know why, when it's a basic idea for financial licking to be too specific about activity. You said – not everyone can do it, not just for the sake of capital, but also for other things, that there is no conflict of interest. You just passed a law in which there is no conflict of interest, but an ambis, an ambition of conflict of interest. A member of the Securities Commission may not have any action or any share in any society if you wish to have a Securities Commission. You make gymnastics, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't. There's an absolute ban here. For much less, you hire the Anti-Corruption Agency if it's a conflict of interest. The conflict of interest may be when a cumulation of public functions is carried out in one person or where private interests endanger the realisation or fulfillment of the public interest of a public official. It's a definition for two prototypes of conflict of interest. That rule is waived from law to law, from regulations to regulations. Mr. Dulic, I suggest that when you meet Mr. Prime Minister, you address him as Minister of Finance, not as Prime Minister, and tell him next – up to 3% on an annual level of interest is treated by the definition that normal, expected, justified, provided that annual inflation moves within these frameworks. If inflation is at 1.5% and the prescribed interest is 4%, 4% is already green interest, you know, that's the definition. Let's cut these imaginary risks and cut interest rates. The National Bank of Serbia can, through open-market operations, not only through mandatory reserves but also in other ways, significantly influence banks to reduce interest rates. Keep an eye on it, 3% on the annual level is normal, allowed, it saves capital and gives some profit, 4% is green interest. Examine all these interest rates that our banks today, or foreign banks account for in Serbia, and you will find out how much capital is drawn, or to be more precise, draw money from this area and carry it primarily to Austria and other countries. Remember one thing, Alpe-Adria, an exposition of Pristina, Vienna, Belgrade, Zagreb, Sarajevo. When money spins, you can write a billion laws to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, no one lives to catch it, and not even these lawyers.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54177	15 minutes of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9th of the amendment was filed by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54178	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 9th point 4 refers to the monetary part of the founding capital of the lender. The legislator proposed in the bill that the amount be fivem euros, and my colleagues and I, on behalf of the DSS, submitted the amendment, asking that it be not fivem euros, but threem euros. We have explained this in the following way – we believe that the amount of five million euros is indeed a high requirement for the establishment of companies that will deal with the business of leases, compared to capital needed for the establishment of banks, which is 10m euros, financial licking is a job that requires much less guarantee in terms of own capital. This condition is particularly high if it is borne in mind that these assets cannot be obtained from credit or borrowing and if it is known that in real estate transactions, as a major part of the deposit insurance, the mortgage is used, then it appears to be an unwarranted insistence on such high founding roles. This will certainly lead to insufficient competition in the market and high prices of these services, but it may be your intention to make such a high share of founding capital you and to make it impossible for competition and to allow only some who are close to the ruling parties to remain and to establish these companies. Obviously, clients and committees will not be too interested in you, nor will you be interested in the price of services. Why do I say that? You responded to our amendment by just turning the circle and saying - the amendment is not accepted, because the minimum amount of the founding capital of the five million-euro leaser in the dinar equivalent, according to the official middle rate of the dinar on the day of payment for the financial lease business, the subject of which is an immovable matter, is meaningful, given the impact of the financial lease on the economy of a country. I know you suggested it, and I responded to it, but you didn't answer me – why don't you accept our amendment, and don't you think that our amendment is something to answer for?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54179	Anyone else want a word? The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted an amendment with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Milan Lapcevic submitted the 9th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Milan Lapčević has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54180	In Article 9, which amends Article 10d of the existing law, in the position of the 6th word "good business reputation", we believe it should be deleted. What does "good business reputation" mean? How do we measure this descriptive feature of "good business reputation"? Is that defined somewhere, the company had so much traffic, it wasn't blocked, do they have any parameters that define the term "good business reputation"? There isn't. If not, I don't know how we're going to measure it, how we're going to evaluate someone if they belong to that category of "good business reputation" and whether they can meet those criteria or not. For example, the provisions of Article 13v provide for something that is contrary to what you have written here, that a member of the Management Board has the necessary professional qualifications, at least two years of working experience in the leading position in the financial sector, that it is not condemned, etc., to be suitable for carrying out board members, etc. So here you have concrete information about what something means, how a certain member should be defined, what criteria should be met by someone who wants to be a board member, while the wording "good business reputation" basically means nothing. If there is no closer definition, a good business reputation should be deleted and replaced by some concrete explanation, concrete measures that the company needs to meet so that it can meet these criteria and enter financial leases. We do not think that this way contributes to improving the business climate in the country, because these laws should also contribute to making as much investment as possible and to improving and increasing GDP, in order to be able to repay the strong loans that have been taken in previous years and which weigh the most on both our economy and our companies, which, due to large taxes, large procedures, cannot operate positively and finance the state. I was just talking about how many states have gone into huge debt over the past few years, and although the secretary of state said that the budget was much better than it was last year, regardless of how much we had two new debts of 400m euros from Sosiet, the state's secretary, who had already been announced by the World Bank of $800m, one of which again half of the funds, 400m, will be covered by the budget deficit. You can't see the end of it. Albert Jager says Serbia has done nothing on structural reforms and that even though three years ago we concluded a contract with the IMF on a stand-by arrangement, which we have committed to reducing public spending, that we will reduce the number of employees in the state administration, we have entered into the business, we have committed. Remember, our obligation was to pass a law on limiting the number of employees in the state administration. At the big bells, we announced that the law was passed, that we decided to reduce the number of employees in local self-government and in the state administration to about 29,000, knowingly we talked about the state finally moving to reduce its public spending, so that it would only end with an empty story and that the number of people would be reduced in local self-government by a certain figure, so that at the end of this year the government would approve the employment of 760 new people. Not to mention that 150 new people were approved there for the railroad, 70 new people at the finance ministry, and only six months before that, the same finance ministry gave high severances to 40 people who left the finance ministry, and now we're hiring new 70s. It's an example of the irresponsible behavior of the state and the spending of money, that it really borders on common sense. Today I read that 66,000 companies are in a blockade and that the mutual debt is 288 billion dinars and that in that debt structure is a state engine, a driver of these debts, and that it owes the companies, and then cyclical companies owe each other and that they don't see the end of that vicious circle. Your Serbian director, Bajatovic, says the state needs to find 500m to 600m euros in new loans to cover its debts and to help prevent the collapse and loss of another 200,000 existing jobs, besides those 400,000 we had an accident to give us as a new power. It seems that another 200,000 people will go to the Bureau of Labour and lose their jobs due to the huge public spending, which is primarily made by the state, and due to the huge deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which has grown since the previous 14 billion in 2008, to over 120 billion this year. The interest on loans went up by three years from 16 billion to 55 billion dinars. So, only for interest, this country spends 550m euros annually. It is something that even a much richer country does not seem to be able to withstand, such public spending and so much interest on borrowed loans, and it can be seen from the announcement that this is not the end, regardless of the country's 41.5% debt to GDP, according to Vuk Djokovic, at the end of 2010, we took $400m in February. Now we're going to take another 800 million, which makes up about 3% of GDP. So, we're already hitting that 45% when it's believed that the state can't practically fund the repayment of its debts and interest and where it's threatened by bankruptcy. The interesting thing is that the state is up-to-date in withdrawing approved loans from international financial organisations. As a rule, loans are withdrawn, expressly and without any problems, to fill budget deficits, i.e. to cover budget deficits, and very difficult or almost insignificant percentages for project financial arrangements. So, for example, we still have two years ago approved, allegedly approved credit from China, a trade loan to finance certain jobs in Serbia. Of course, we didn't pull it because we don't have projects. We have agreed with Russia a billion dollars for the project financing of certain projects in Serbia, we saw Prime Minister Putin come in a month ago and he says - let's see the projects and we'll start to realise the agreed arrangement. So, when we have to withdraw money for certain projects, for Corridor 10, for building railways, bridges, by the way, these projects are usually arranged and made for the capital, for something around the capital, again, and that's an empty letter on paper. We're talking about wanting to build something, we're trying to have projects, we're trying to get in charge, we're doing some concrete thing, and when we have to realize this particular thing, we're coming to the realization of the project, in fact, there's no. It is a devastating fact for this government, which is symbolically portrayed as the government of economic experts, strong economic experts, which will bring about a better improvement for this country precisely because it brings together economic experts, and therefore we will also have a better organisation in terms of the economy, a more rational consumption of the state and a higher social standard, more employment, and the economy is the main problem. From all of that we got all the opposite, instead of 200 thousand new employees, here, we lost 400,000, and probably another 200 grand, so 600,000 will be down by the number of employees, so the number of pensioners will cross the number of employees, and it's really a chain wheel, it doesn't see an end. New and new borrowings, interest growth, deficits in the budget are growing, and no concrete measure is being taken to help the economy, to get out of liquidity and to produce something concrete. Our coverage of exports is devastatingly low and indeed under these circumstances any responsible authority would simply have to say that there are no solutions to huge problems and simply return the mandate to the citizens, so let them decide who will lead them. You know, when you have pre-election promises on one side, of course, which are always bigger than they are realistically possible, so when you reduce it by about 50%, say, and you step down another 200 percent or 300 percent, then we really don't see what can happen if one government says -- if people don't know how to solve these problems anymore, let's not destroy the country for our own sakes to stay in power, let someone who can do it better than us. If you had a little bit of morality and had a little responsibility to the country and the future of this country, you would have done it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54181	Nine minutes have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54182	Article 13j, point 3, the word "security" is replaced by the word "implementation." The interpretation of the meaning of the word "security" can be more significant, so that it can lead to inconsistencies in the application of the legislator's intention to oblige the leaser to carry out internal audit procedures to determine business weaknesses, data accuracy in financial and other reports and risk control. The ambiguity of this term allows the leaser not to carry out an internal audit of the business, thus preventing the efficiency of the internal control system, which directly affects the quality of the services or provides the possibility of damage to the leaser. It is obvious that this term can be misused and interpreted in a number of different ways, and we believe that it is necessary to change it by a different specific term, which I think will in no way compromise the essence of the law, even on the contrary, in terms of the quality of certain improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54183	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54184	This article is amended by an existing member of the 51a Act. There are mainly listed business offences and provided fines for economic offences in the area of financial leases. Our amendment refers to paragraph 2, where the proposer says that a commercial offence from this member will also punish a responsible person in a legal person with a fine of 20,000, up to 200,000 dinars. We believe that, given the kind of consequences that can be caused by the unauthorized conduct of financial lysing operations, this penalty must be greater, so we propose, by amendment, that instead of 20,000, the lowest impediment be 100,000 dinars, and that the highest proposed is not 200,000 dinars, but that it be a million dinars. So the range of fines from 100,000 to a million dinars. As I said, the consequences of the abuse of rights in this area are dangerous. However, when you compare some of the other penalties that are in some other laws and for a violation, you see that these penalties are unjustly low. For example, if the store owner doesn't clear the snow outside his shop, he can be punished by 5,000 to 25,000 dinars or, if the store owner doesn't issue a fiscal bill to the buyer, he can be punished from 50,000 to a million dinars. So, you see here for an undisclosed store owner's account, a merchant, can be fined up to a million dinars, and for such serious violations you prescribe the greatest threatened fine of only 200,000 dinars. So I think you should have accepted our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54185	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54186	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Mr Nenad Popovic has submitted an amendment to Article 25, so that Article 1 is changed and reads: "The fine in the height that is in accordance with Article 18 of Article 6 of this Law will be punishable for the commercial offence of a legal person if it deals with the business of a financial lease and does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 10 of this Act and a legal or natural person if, without the consent of the NBS, it has acquired direct or indirect ownership of the shares or actions of a leaser that allows 10% and more management rights. ''The fines provided for in Article 18 of this Act are significantly greater than the fines provided for in Article 25 of the same law, so those two are the same members in full collegiation. The aim of the amendment, submitted by Mr Popovic, is to remove this conflict between these two members of the same law. This achieves the consistency of the law, removes ambiguities and thus increases the financial responsibility of the leaser, i.e. the losing house. I invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54187	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Aleksandar Pejcic. The people of Ambassador Alexander Pejcic, he has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, representatives of the government, the minister has no, therefore, DSS MPs have submitted a total of 11 amendments to the Financial Lising Act and none has been accepted. This amendment concerns Article 26 and Article 51g amends Article 2 so that the amount of between 10,000 and 50,000 is changed by between 50 and 500 000 dinars. In this amendment, we wanted to protect the interests of citizens, those citizens who took certain lickings from the company, and in the event of a failure of the company, we wanted to protect the very interests of the citizens themselves. I am sorry that the Government did not recognise this amendment as high quality and did not integrate it into this law, but I hope that by the end of the vote you will accept this amendment and thus protect the interests of citizens, who, because of this situation, cannot serve certain comrades according to companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54189	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. We have completed our review of the amendments, and since no one wants to speak, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments: Milorad Buha, Dragan Stevanović, Vladan Jeremic, joint MPs Nenad Popović, Arsen Đurić and Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejčić and Lidija Dimitrijevic, joint MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Zoran Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Pijelić, Milena Budimirović, Stefan Zankovic, Goto Kišmarton, Milan Knezić, Saša Maksa Maksimović, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljanajana Miladinović, Borisa Polić, Mileić, Milejta Poskurica, Milica, Mileica Poskurica, Milica, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Gotojić, Goo Žalić, Goo Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Valić, Valić, Valić, Valić, Valić, Valić, Valić, Valić, Valić, V. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, we have before us a law which, in a legal and technical sense, means a shift, however, I think this shift is worse, because the existing law has given us certain solutions and we haven't implemented it enough to the end. According to the current law, the 2001 Interest Rate Law, the tight interest rate rate consisted of a monthly price growth rate at a small and fixed rate of 0.5% per month. In this amendment, the legislator went to the correction and instead of the monthly price growth rate to a little, proposed a change, a termological change, above all, to make it a monthly rate of consumer prices growth. According to the SRS, it is unacceptable to install this provision for essential reasons. Consumer price growth rate is a trading category, a transport category. It does not contain what we have suggested, and that is the height of the NBS reference rate as financial categories above all. What does the rate of consumer prices increase mean? So one pile of goods and services that are placed on the market and that have a certain level of increase in certain times, a reduction in their prices. It is one aggregate rate that does not reflect what is needed and does not reflect the price of financial capital. A tight interest is a criminal interest. A fine to a debtor who is obliged to settle what the trustee lost during that period. Since you're proposing a traffic category, we have to show you that basically in practical life we have different solutions and we have conducted prices. In our system, we have high prices, where the state determines the highest level of prices – both for utility services, so is fuel and other products and services. What's going on? There's a cemented level of those prices. We have prices that are formed on the free market. That's where the jump comes in. It's about the traffic again, the transport of these goods and services. It has nothing to do with the price of capital. In response to this amendment, you say – the price rise is slightly in direct connection with the cash debt compensation to the trustee due to inflation. Because of the money debt to the trustee. Cash debt is a financial category. He says -- because of the inflation that was present during the time the debtor was in late. The essential difference between you is the interest rate reference rate. It represents the base and represents the basic level of financial capital. This shows, as an increase in prices to a small or earlier or now consumer prices, the authority responsible for statistics shows. In this case, the reference rate shall indicate the NBS. The bottom line is, the trustee can't be damaged, and he can't be rewarded. In this case, just to get back to the situation we have since the beginning of the year, the increase in prices to a small, i.e. the increase in consumer prices in the first quarter was 5.5%, with some inflation, or a small increase in prices in the last year of 10.3% and 11%, respectively. Today we have, like, a certain category of tight interest over 16%. Our proposal is to go the reference rate of the NBS that's smaller. Not to punish the trustee now, but not to damage the debtor. What happens by the end of the year, according to the governor of the NBS? He says only in this quarter will the largest increase in consumer prices in total, what we once called inflation. In the third and fourth quarter, we'll have a slight calmdown, and in the end we'll have what's drawn out by the NBS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what's defined by the memorandum, that's 4.5%, plus minus 1.5%. So, about 6%. It's impossible to do that, but you wrote it. It's a government plan and the NBS and you're gonna make it happen. You won't make it. What kind of situation are we gonna have? We're going to have a situation where all of this will stop with that 0.5% fixed and be somewhere at 20%. That means the trustee will get 20% of some value in some period of time. That's a lot of this moment, because the price of financial capital is way below that. The price of financial capital in our country is high because banks have a monopoly and take as much as they want. Real price, go now as a citizen and take the money to the bank, so you will see what the real price of that capital is, so share and make a weight between what is obtained – passive and active, what is sold, so that you may see what it is. The price of financial capital is closer to this moment and almost always to the reference rate of the National Bank and that is the proposal. Unfortunately, you didn't accept it, you went to an explanation that you're contradictory of, because in fact you're showing, if you mention the debt of the debtor in the delay period and you say that it's a compensation to the trustee's money debt is a financial category. Therefore, frame all of this in financial categories, not traffic categories.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54191	Five minutes and 30 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Stevanovic has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Vladan Jeremic, who wants a word, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54192	And this Article 2 also, according to what the legislator has offered us, is replaced by the data used to determine a tight interest, and that is by using low-cost growth data instead of growth data. I could only go on about where Honorable colleague Milorad Buha stopped, that is, with this explanation, that is, by our seeing the proposed law on the level of the tightened interest rate, because, in the amendment that is scheduled, Article 2, Article 2, we also predicted that the words "the rate of consumer prices" should be replaced by the words "reference rate of the National Bank of Serbia". This was also in some way an attempt to protect itself in some sense and the interest of the state, because as we could already hear, the reference rate of the National Bank of Serbia is one financial category, a basic category, which in principle reflects both financially and financially, and if you want the political situation in the country, while the rate of consumer prices represents one, that is what we call it, the category of trade, and, of course, it should also take into account that country's strategy to take care of and controlled prices, etc. Interestingly, that argument by the Government states that the bill replaces the use of monthly rate data and the price of growth to a small extent, with data on monthly growth rates of consumer prices, both in months when consumer price data is higher than zero and in months when these data are equal to zero or negative. They then say that for this reason, no other type of data could be used for the months in which the consumer price growth rate data is equal to zero or negative, as foreseen by this amendment. For the first three months of this year, that rate of consumer price growth is about 5.5%, which means that if such dynamics are maintained, that would be up to 16%, while the reference rate of the National Bank of Serbia is currently, if I am not mistaken, 12.25% and hence, and trying to get through this amendment, therefore, in Article 2(2). Proposal for a law on the rate of tightening interest in a way that protects the interest of the state. However, you did not find any understanding or economic logic there, so that it was not accepted and hence, and we believe that, in general, these changes and additions to the Law on the level of the tight interest rate will not be able to edit what you have declared in terms of the law when you offered them to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54193	Used a minute of MEP time. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54194	With this amendment, we have requested that Article 3 be deleted, i.e. the proposal to be a member of the 4th Old Law. I will read this article that reflects a certain copying school and, on the other hand, slightly unprofessionally engaged, but if we welcome what is written here, it will be tragic for the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The following is said: for months where, due to a one-time correction, the price of consumer prices is 10 percentage points higher than the national bank of Serbia's reference rate, the arithmetic average between the national bank's reference interest rate and the monthly consumer price growth rate is taken for Article 2(1) of this law. Look, we've broken this down a little bit, a little bit, a little bit, and on the other hand, we point to the possibility that we have a rise in consumer prices in society, which is 10 percent higher than the reference interest rate. We know that the reference rate has always been over 10% in the last five or six years, up to 17%. Now it's 12 and something percent, take that 10 percent point. What kind of economic and financial policy are we talking about? Is it possible in society to imagine more that inflation that was characteristic in the 1990s? In the period when we say that we have stabilised everything, that everything fits some standards, rules, etc., that we in law predict such a drastic increase in consumer prices that will exceed ten and more percentage points and that we will approach a one-time price correction? Please, you don't have it in the Price Act, you don't have that option. How are we gonna do that? This is just one copying school, namely, a similar situation envisaged in the current, valid interest rate law in Article 4, which in a similar way determines, but in 2001 and 2011 are diametrically opposite. I think this is harmful, that it is unnecessary, regardless of what may occur in such a situation, given the not-economic policy that you run and the financial indicators we have and that we can get into this situation, but we also have to tie it to certain other legal regulations that must enable you to do what you provide for this law. If that's not foreseen by the Prices Act, it's illusory to install it into this, and combine the arithmetic environment between the inflation category and the reference interest rate, it's one whirlpool, you can't get out of all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54195	A minute and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Milan Lapčević together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic, Arsen Djuric and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, honourable government representatives, the DSS has submitted a number of amendments to this high interest rate law and we are just thanking the government for accepting one of them. In Article 5a, Article 1, following the words "Republic Statistics Institute", the words "and the National Bank of Serbia" are inserted, and the word "publishes" is replaced by "published". Since the Law on the National Bank of Serbia has defined as the primary objective of this institution the preservation of price stability, we believe it is necessary that data on monthly rates, this is important, consumer price growth in the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the Republic Statistics Institute, is published by the National Bank of Serbia on its internet presentation. Since different data appeared in the public from these reference institutions, from the Institute of Statistics and from the Serbian National Bank, we wanted this amendment to the fact that the legislator co-ordinates both the work of one and the other institutions and obliges them to publish on their websites a monthly rate of growth and consumer price growth. In this way, the citizens of Serbia and the public will also be familiar with the growth of monetary developments in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54197	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. No one wants a word. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54198	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment to Article 6 which, instead of saying "the rate of rise in prices for a little for December 2010" to include the words "average rate of price growth at a small rate in 2010" the proposed text of the law stipulates that when calculating the rate of tightening interest from 1 January 2011, the average rate of price growth is to be used, taking into account the average rate of little in December 2010. Since December cannot be taken as a reference for the whole of 2010, I think it is inappropriate to use the price growth rate to a little bit in December, but I think it should take an average for the whole of 2010. In December of each year there are holiday seasonal effects due to higher earnings compared to other months of the year, so that the rise in prices to the few caused by these effects cannot be used for the first quarter of next year, because it would not reflect the true state of affairs. That is why I think it is necessary to take an average for all of 2010 and thus reach the rate of tight interest in the first quarter of 2011, so I invite you to reconsider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54199	Anyone else want a word, since this was the last amendment to the search in detail? Since we have completed a search on all amendments, and no one is answering for a word, I am concluding a review of the draft law in particular, and as we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the day to vote on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws on Voluntary Pensions and Pension Plans (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by NBS and MPs Konstantin Arsenović, Milorad Buha, Vladan Jeremic, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasić, Gordana Pop Lazić, Milan Škrbić, Petar Jojic, Dragan Zivkov, Dobrislav Prelevic, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic and Bojan Mladenović. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54200	Article 3(2) concerning this amendment provided that the management company's activity could also be carried out by a branch of a foreign management company authorised by the competent authority for the performance of that activity and at the end of five years from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation. The SRS stance is that legal normation is harmful to the Serbian national interest. For what? Because we have a very good practice in the arrival of foreign capital in the Republic of Serbia in the area of commercial capital, and financial capital, and capital in the area of insurance, etc., so that it would be very harmful to allow in this area, including voluntary pension insurance, to the foreign branches of companies to carry out management activities in these companies. Why? Because it will not take care of the interests of the Republic of Serbia, it will not take care of the interests of this voluntary society, it will make sure they make a profit. It's a basic capital code. This is what we have in practice, I say, in both the area of trade and financial and any capital that has come to the Republic of Serbia, regardless of any other legal regulations in the Republic of Serbia that are binding. So no one can come here to register. No foreign branch, no category in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It has to be domestic, so he has to register here as a legal person, as a legal person, you can do it. It can't be like this. On the other hand, financial and economic aspects are very harmful. He'll come here for a year, two, five years doing what's in his interest. It is his interest that Serbian citizens have neat pensions – he is not interested. It's an interest to make your profit. It's especially important in the management spheres. He comes here and sells his management skills. It's a great danger. Serbian citizens and the school system of the Republic of Serbia are training people capable of managing these businesses. Why let the sides, in particular, baptize him here, get a license here and he'll get a permit. Of course, they'll buy that license and the governor and management of the NBS will give him permission to work and make a sheet, as they did in the area of finance through the banking system. Here, the SRS has been talking for years about the harmful behaviour of foreign capital and the management of these relationship banks, which rob Serbian citizens. That's how it's going to be in this area, we can't let this happen, but unfortunately, you've also called for certain rules, etc. There are no rules about capital. It's just an interest. The Western interest will be to kidnap, take, etc., to build as they did in the areas of finance, economics, trade, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54201	One minute and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The proposal to add a new Article 5 after Article 4. The National Bank of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5 be added after Article 4. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54202	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 7 speaks of the NBS issuing a work permit, when the validity of the requirements laid down in Article 10(1) of this Act is confirmed, and when assessing, among other things, the origin of the underlying capital is clear and unquestionably. We in the SRS believe that such an inaccurate formulation cannot be part of the norm and that instead it should appear that the origin of the underlying capital has been acquired in a legally prescribed manner. It's the only thing that's acceptable to us. Of course, we do not accept the argument that, if the proposed amendment is accepted, there would be a slave to the application of this provision. If something is in accordance with the law, then there is neither a slave nor an extension of the application of the provision, but it must be in accordance with the law. What's suggested is, in fact, just a phrase. We insist on one legal termology and, in fact, the amendment is only a legal-technical editorial of the bill. Why is it not good to use phrases in law? Because it can be misused, that this width, as you put it, can actually lead to the law being applied differently from who it's actually applied to. Every phrase reminds me of a farce, like that one with Nikolic's so-called. strike. What has to do with and may have to do with both this law and the National Assembly is the fact that there is a delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Brussels, and, according to our knowledge, in that delegation there is a Mr. Jorvanka Tabaković, who was not intended and who is not a member of the committee that is in that delegation, but subsequently asked Mrs. Kolundzhija for consent, I am sorry that she is not here, but I suppose she is listening, so she will tell us whether it is true, and she went as a blind passenger in that delegation, to try to convince the audience there today to bring some sort of act where everyone, my God, is concerned about the health and life of Tomislav Nikolic. Since she can't suggest it, she was just talking about it, but she can't propose because she's not an official member of the delegation, then she did so by colleague Maja Vidinovic of the DS. It just confirms that this morning's thesis that both advances and Democrats participate in this farce together. What's important for the SRS is that the National Assembly must not allow it to become part of the farce. You from the congregation majority must keep an eye on and ask, to check what members of the Brussels delegation are doing. Do they represent Parliament's views there, which is why they went there and if they represent, in accordance with the views of their parties, or did they go there to create a circus and in Brussels about the alleged strike of Tomislav Nikolic, whom Jorgenka could have left to strike here, as if she were really strikein', and she's running around Brussels trying to recruiting' Brussels to take an interest in his health, that is, that is, in a big lie and deception about so-called. His strike.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54203	Two minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. This concludes the morning part of the session. I'm setting a break that will last until 15.00 hours. At 15.00 hours, we continue to work on the search in particular, by amendment to Article 7, which was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. A few minutes doesn't mean anything compared to people's MPs who have the right to use their two-minute arguments, they do have the opportunity to use those two minutes. Before we move on to a search in the particulars of the amendments to Article 7 submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, on the basis of Articles 90, 90, 87, I would like to inform you that we will be working today until we have completed the search in detail in detail of the 11th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments. The finalisation of the debate in particular on this law will also end our afternoon work, and tomorrow we will continue to search the details of the amendments and additions to the Law in road traffic. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54205	There are a lot of amendments to this article 7. The bill is because conditions are prescribed for the authorisation of the company to carry out these activities of a voluntary pension fund. Among others, I would just like to point 1) and point 2), but I would also like to call on the final position of Article 7, where it is said that closer conditions are prescribed by the National Bank of Serbia. At these points, if I may say so, it lists everything and everything, which in practice doesn't even mean anything. These are all some arbitrary qualifications, and the assessment depends on the mood and free will of whoever does it at the NBS. None of these conditions that are mentioned can be almost numerically expressed, nor measured somehow, nor otherwise shown as objectively as possible. However, I think this is a good opportunity, just so there are no problems, at point 2) refers to information on the business reputation of founders etc. Well, all our founders of financial institutions are respected when to get a license, and after a few years they wash their hands like, say, you remember that story with that "Elite." That's when the pumpkin broke, everybody ran away. The tax administration says -- we have nothing to do with it, the National Bank says -- we have no idea what they were doing, the police say -- what we're asking now, it's a pure bond relationship between those who trusted each other, and I don't know how many tens of millions of euros gone. The bottom line of all of our regulations is to ensure the protection of citizens who have to believe that if the state stands as a guarantee. When the state has to guarantee on the basis of such arbitrary qualifications in terms of conditions, there is indeed something rather controversial. However, I must repeat something that is the position of the SRS because of these frequent changes that it is an opportunity to remember that original attitude that was present, when laws were first passed in these areas that are now on the agenda. We are advocates of a concept that the NBS must not have this much involvement in some status issues of participants in the financial market. Not only when it comes to investment funds, not only when it comes to financial leases, not only when it comes to voluntary financial funds, not only when it comes to insurance, that everything in terms of conditions, registration, status and labour must be in the power of the finance ministry. We have it all in the NBS, because of the kind of noise that came to us on the political scene in 2001, because someone allegedly took care of the banking system and the NBS is completely safe and it meets all of its obligations. Then we left the practically complete financial sphere to the NBS, and you know it's pretty far from the executive. It's a para-executive power that has some kind of independence and some kind of independence. Now I don't want to talk about it any further, that's a principled difference. I think that when one area is so divided on one side are conditions and ways of doing business, sublegal acts, and on the other side is control, and the NBS is always asked through banks. By controlling banks, it controls both investment funds and voluntary pension funds. I have to make a little difference, which is inappropriate for us. Look, we now have a situation where the difference between life insurance and a voluntary pension fund exists only in who pays the premium. Only who pays the premium. The effect must be the same by definition. One and the other, all assets are placed over securities of value. Both of them work in payment through a business bank. The only ones and others are obliged to provide a contribution that will be greater than that of saving at the bank. What's the difference? In the case of voluntary life insurance, the insurance company pays the premium, and here it's a little promotion that the employer is paying. Now we have employers who are paying into two voluntary pension funds -- Delta Generals and, say, Dunav Pension Fund. Why? Because tax policy is such – no tax is paid to that amount. It's stimulating for employers. Let's go to four, to the expense. You can finish the job, but when you look at all these clients, when you look at when you're trading securities of value, when you look at which securities of value are invested by voluntary pensions and investment funds, then we come to the conclusion that in the end it pays for the state. The financial market and the state have not been developed to provide funds to bridge the chronic deficit in the budget, issue bonds, etc. These participants in the financial market are all investing in and becoming state finances, and when the state needs to settle its obligation, it rests its obligation again through taxpayers. Then we have one magic system where everything is fixed. We're financing the existence of a financial market. We have brokerage houses, we have a stock market, we have a trade between banks, we have a People's Bank of Serbia that's blown up everywhere, which can tell you in two days' time what the course is going to be, and the course is cobajagi swimming, free, etc. Somebody's got to pay for it eventually. Who pays? They pay the citizens. Who are they paying? Those who at one point had the means to place them in investment units. Those who had free funds to go into voluntary retirement insurance. The ones who got into life insurance. Please, the basic purpose of these financial institutions and institutes is not that, but that these assets are employed through the securities of value for the economy, where the economy would come in a cheaper way to capital than the bank funds, so when a new value is created, then the whole circle can be satisfied. This is where the whole circle is satisfied in purely financial transactions. Finally, at one point this bond or this paper, which reads – at a certain nominal amount, is physically given another market view. Then the iron is activated, the results are ironed, etc., and in translation it means – from hollow to empty, and the resourceful pick up the kamak. In that sense, we ask that all of these terms of Article 7 be interpreted as being written in a very arbitrary way. If anyone thinks there will be 100 voluntary pension funds in Serbia, they are wrong. I think this number is too big for us. Why? There is no awareness among people that there is some grace that at this point there is little more resources to invest in that fund, when the chronic problem is how to put together from the first to the 15th. That's our problem. If someone thought that we could ensure stability by regulating the financial market, regulating financial institutions, sticking to the Vienna Agreement, sorry, please, that one is wrong, because then there's nothing left to do but to borrow through the loan, and to let these loans go into the course here, to turn these foreign exchanges into dinars, then we have to invent something that has a real sector, a new value, so that this new value can turn around, so that something can be settled. This is a failed system. We can't get out of this failed system, because it's a vicious circle where it creates consequences, the result becomes a cause and so uninterrupted, there's some legality and natural predictable consequences. That's our problem. Here, you don't essentially heal the narrow throat or the focus of all our problems. The focus of all our problems is domestic production and export. There's almost nothing done here. What occurs as an stimulation is the simplest redistribution of the social product towards the chosen, where the goods appear only as covering for the use of some means. Then it is not surprising – 5,000 euros for a new job, 10,000 euros for a new job, etc. Hold the water until the masters leave, one year, two, to endure it as some kind of system, as something epic, and we all know in the beginning that it doesn't benefit.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54206	Nine minutes of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54207	As counterpart Krasic said, Article 7 allows the National Bank of Serbia too much freedom, and the elements necessary for obtaining the permit, i.e. the documents for obtaining a license to work on a voluntary pension fund, include certain legal terms that do not correspond to the real state, do not correspond to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Point 1 states – the origin of the underlying capital clearly and unquestionably... What does that mean now, clearly and doubtless? In particular, I have referred the amendment to point 8. The bill, which reads, will set up an appropriate risk management system in the management company. Look, it's a preliminary procedure that is necessary to prepare the management of a voluntary pension fund. Among other things, he has to make one risk management system. What do we have in practice? And in the banking system, it's a similar situation. This provision has been taken over from the banking system. Whoever's imaginative, he'll create a system that's not in Europe. What do we have in our practical lives? Are we applying that? We don't apply. So whoever's more imaginative is going to pass this test at the NBS, and in the real life, it's usually not there. Such a defined condition can cause the NBS to need not to accept a particular fund with that risk for lobbying reasons, and the other one will be accepted. In practice, we must not have such provisions. The legislator must lay down the conditions in a concise and clear way in the previous procedure, and be strict through ex post control of the work of the funds. What do we have in practice? We're out of control. When the NBS speaks of a system of bank control, insurance companies, voluntary pension funds, then we see that the control of the work of these institutions is almost negligible. During 2009, I mentioned it here, the NBS did thirty, and we have 33 banks in total that are in the financial system, thirty and some control. A little. What are the consequences of control? Almost nothing. Four violations, one or two economic offenses in both 2009 and 2010. A similar situation will be here. But there is a possibility of abuse. Such vague formulations allow just such abuse in the practical life and practical application of these provisions. What else is a danger? The danger is to put speculative capital into these funds. If we don't have adequate control, then the money will be washed like money is being laundered through the banking system. Metals Bank, or Vojvodina Development Bank, is a classic example of that. Now we see the consequences. What did the NBS do to prevent what was going on at Metals Bank, etc? She introduced a business administration and didn't do anything, the emergency administration procedure was completed. When all this was over, she arrested one of the forced managers after three or four years of criminal activities in that bank. It's a classic case, for example, how you can't do it the way you do it. And in this case, the same thing will happen. The proposal is for the SRS to be deleted in this particular case. So, apply everything that's the world's rule, but in one elastic way to set it up -- so that all those who want to invest money can invest, but with constant control, permanent control, we will achieve the purpose and purpose of this system. In this case it is necessary to have one additional form, given the state of the pension system, that in a few years we will be in a position not to be able to pay regular pensions. This is for those situations where citizens have the opportunity to provide additional resources, to get into these funds and to have safe and secure lives through these funds of age.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54208	Three minutes and 15 seconds used by the MPs' group. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Proposal to add a new Article 14 after Article 13. The NBS has submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 14 be added after Article 13. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. You want to talk about your amendment? Yeah. The People's MP Milorad Bhuha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54209	It is a legal and technical projection, i.e. erasure of Article 10(3). I will read it: "When it decides to give consent under Article 1, the National Bank may, if necessary, ask the proposed members of the administration to come personally to the interview. "Look, this is so arbitrary that we allow the National Bank to listen to certain statements and that the National Bank's referents are hearing someone from the fund management system. I think this is unusual in the legal system. It may be somewhere in the West, it may be practical, but we don't have this way anywhere in the legal system that you're listening to one of the board members in the previous procedure and that they personally make certain statements. It's a previous procedure. So unnecessary. We have quite enough rules, we have conditions, if in a legal sense, if in a financial sense the form provided for by law is satisfied, there is no need for us to do so in the previous procedure. I say, in a later control procedure, we exercise proper control, we hear, we investigate, etc., but in this way there can be abuse and there will certainly be abuse of the other side. The administration can have 10-15 people. This is not clear enough, whether it's just one of them or what combination it's going to be, so in some situations we're going to have five people, about 15 etc. It's vague, incomplete, to me and harmful. Unfortunately, you refused this amendment. I think that through this provision, we will create arbitraryness in the state institution, which is the NBS. The position of the SRS is that these jobs must be in the Ministry of Finance, not in the monetary institution – the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54210	National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another law that is before us, which will absolutely mean nothing to the citizens of Serbia, a law that for 90% of citizens has no meaning. Under this law, only the chosen can join and pay into these pension funds. Who's to blame? You are the culprits, since you, when you formed this government in 2008, in this artificial coalition that was made, promised that pensions would be at 70% of the average income, which is absolutely not true. They know our pensioners are counting and are aware that there are fewer pensions in Serbia today than they were in 2008. What's interesting is that PUPS submits amendments. Why don't you at least make a deal before you pass the law before we do? You respected everything, you boasted. Since the pension funds are ahead of us, I would take the opportunity to ask you what about the fourth part of the pensions for individual agricultural producers? How much more do you think you're lying to these people? This really doesn't make sense. For these voluntary funds, I know who will definitely join them, which is Šojić and Cirko. They have money, they'll probably miss the internship. The first part of their career when they held the shovel, there's not much to do with it. The only internship they're connected to can thank the SRS and Vojislav Seselj. It won't take long. From the moment they betrayed the SRS and stole our mandates, thanks to you they stayed here, and that period will be entered into their internship, it's the only way to go into invalid retirement. That's why he probably went to this clinic where he's the only patient. Who knows what he's going to write there to get a disability pension, although I don't think it's necessary, is enough to just have a shrink examine it and give him a disability pension right away. Until all this is resolved and before going to a political dump, Vojislav Seselj is returning to Serbia soon, is going definitely into retirement, he has money, he will invest in these funds and will no longer be able to deceive Serbian citizens, just like you from the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54212	Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National Bank of Serbia submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54213	Today we're talking about the capital market, financial leases, investment funds, voluntary pension funds. Those citizens who are able to follow this, they wonder, what are these people talking about? This is some nice story for those whose standard is above average in Serbia, not above average but far better than those who live on the edge of existence today, and we're talking about something that would be good if it were. Voluntary pension funds were established in 2005, i.e. the law came into force in 2006 and at the initial stage of the application of this law probably a number of people could alternatively pay contributions, as you say for the old days something to save. That wasn't a bad idea, probably. Today I am absolutely certain and I know that a large number of people who started to pay in the beginning had no longer had confidence since 2000 in the regimes that were in power and wanted to secure themselves for this ageing period, but there came a time when they could no longer. They can't settle their day-to-day obligations. You know that there are a lot of hungry people today, and I'm not talking about those who don't have a job, who go to school, so it turns out later that it shouldn't have, like it doesn't matter. They're now in a position to stop, they can't stand to pay more than stop these payments. What's going on in that case? We'll have a situation, I can't predict now in what time period, that there won't be pensions from a regular fund, that those who don't work today and have nothing to pay from won't even have the opportunity to secure pensions through voluntary pension funds. What about people like that? Mr. Minister, I would like to see you later, when we finish our presentation on these amendments, say how many voluntary pension funds are in Serbia, which are benchmarks, which are good, which are risky for Serbian citizens. I assume that for today's debate on this subject you've prepared yourself a little bit and that wouldn't be a bad thing to hear from the MPs and the citizens who are following this transmission. The member in which we have submitted the amendment is 22, and he regulates the investment of property to voluntary retirement companies, how and how are these assets being collected? In this proposal for amendments and additions to this law, there are now some other companies in which these funds can be invested, and under item 8b of Article 4, the investment units of open investment funds managed by companies based in the Republic are standing. This is the case – that is, in the EU Member States and the OECD. We have proposed that, after the words "an investment unit of open investment funds managed by management companies in the Republic" be put in place and that the rest of the sentence be deleted, which refers to these units located in the EU Member States and the OECD. We believe that this is unnecessary and that this does not fit Serbia's legal system, and therefore we suggest that this part of the text be deleted and the amendment accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54214	One minute and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Proposal to add a new Article 24 after Article 23. The National Bank of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 24 be added after Article 23. The government and the Financial Committee adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Proposal to add a new Article 35 after Article 34. The NBS has submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 35 be added after Article 34. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The NBS has submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 36 be added after members 34 and a new member of 35. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. To Article 36. The amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 49. The amendment was filed by the NBS. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. To Article 58. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Munjic. There's nine minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54215	I have submitted an amendment to Article 58(2) of this bill on voluntary pension funds and pension plans. To remind you, Article 58(2) regulates compensation for management services of management companies. Thus, in this position of the 2nd member, you predict that when payment is made, the service is charged at a rate of 3%, so 3% of the value of the payments made. In my amendment, I asked that this rate be lower, that it be 1% of the value, that this lower rate is much more appropriate and more adequate, so more proportionate to the service itself. The government, in its explanation, says this should be seen together with the fund management fee, which is said to be reduced from 2% to 1.25% a year from the value of the fund, and that's fine. That reduction from 2% to 1.25% is fine by me. However, I asked for a reduction in the services themselves during the payment. As possible, if the explanation says that this will have a more positive effect, something more expensive at the same time will be cheaper. It is true that it will have a more positive effect, and I would agree with that, but a more positive effect only for the budget, for the state. So it would be more appropriate and more appropriate to reduce it from 3% to 1%. There is no economic justification for achieving greater, or more positive effects if 3% remains, as explained in the reasons for not accepting the amendment. So there's no economic justification and no economic logic. However, I have the impression that here, in fact, it didn't count on economic logic and economic justification, so I guess that's why my amendment wasn't accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54216	The amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic to Article 58. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 58 of this bill, which states that the NBS will bring all sublaws into force and comply with this law within 90 days of its entry into force. Until the start of the change in the NBS act referred to in Article 16 of this Act – compensation for management company services shall be charged 1) when payment of pension contributions at a rate of not more than 3% of the value of the payments made and 2) for the management of the fund per rate of not more than 2% of the value of the voluntary pension fund, etc. A moment ago, my colleague Mirko Munjic explained why this value of 3% must be reduced to 1% at point 1 in point 2. I think it is also necessary to make a reduction in the rate of compensation in point 2 of point 2 that this percentage is also too high, that it is also unrealistic, that it can and should be double smaller and that for such a thing there are real conditions. So I suggest that this percentage of 2 standing here is reduced to change by a percentage of 1. This reduced percentage corresponds to the actual costs of the service provided and that is one of the reasons why I have submitted this amendment and which is why I believe that this amendment should be adopted. The adoption of this amendment would significantly reduce costs, the percentage of compensation if it fell from 2 to 1 we got to strengthen the voluntary pension fund, for what the SRS stands for. What is most important would be the possibility of obtaining larger financial resources under formal and informal conditions. The management of the management company takes too much compensation to be halved and is to be reduced. It is certainly better, that it is more useful for that money to go to a voluntary pension fund, which is the essence of the proposed amendment. The SRS has always advocated and will always advocate strengthening pension funds with the aim of providing larger funding within pension funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54218	Does anyone else want a word, since this amendment was the last in search of amendments in particular? Since we've completed the search on all amendments, I've concluded the review of the bill's proposal in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Platt transport (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs Marina Toman, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dragan Stevanović, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisav Peljević, Milet Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dragan Šormaz. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. To Article 1. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54219	The aim of this amendment is, above all, to specify the provisions of the law, which should certainly be in the interest of the Proposer himself, because as the proposer himself stated in the explanation, the law seeks to remove difficulties in the practical application of certain legal provisions. It is our view that the following – if certain provisions are not precisely defined, and not only this member, it is a larger number of other members, then the law will indeed create a series of problems during its application. It's something that happens all the time in a series of laws. This is why the SRS warns the government that one law, in itself, is the law on paper, and something else, its application in practice, and that it must be taken into account very much. It is justified that the law on payment in this form in which it is presently in front of us, in which certain provisions are unarranged, confusing and contradictory, will not remove a really big problem resulting from the fact that a large number of blocked bills are based on notes. It is truly astounding that it is impossible to determine the exact number of issued bonds and powers, i.e. that creditors do not have the opportunity to know whether or not they have been issued by their debtors. Who's to blame for that? Of course, the government, first of all, has allowed one such behavior. It's not a problem from today, it's not a problem from yesterday. Now all of a sudden, we should all be amazed by this fact, which is why the government has not responded before, which is why it has not found mechanisms to remove this problem before? The answer is very simple. The government is sending legislation required by the EU to this parliament for debate. The government is not dealing with the essential problems of the local economy and society. Was the government the initiator of some laws that need to facilitate business, make life easier for citizens? No, it's not just the SRS. That's what the citizens of Serbia say. Then, and when something like that happens, and if an idea occurs, or when the government shows up with an idea, then it's not done properly and there's a series of problems and results, as a rule, lagging behind. As with many other laws, so is this law, as we can see, it was left to the NBS and the Ministry of Finance to provide proper regulations on the basis of which certain provisions of the law will be implemented. So we don't know what this law will look like in the end, or how it's going to apply. It's extremely unserious. Therefore, when the government tries to arrange an area, it needs to be settled to the end and quality, it needs to be bypassed. In this society, the economy has accumulated so many problems that any error is expensively paid and paid by citizens, the wages are the economy. Citizens and businesses need the government, and it represents itself capable of such a thing, to provide concrete solutions. Issue number one in this country, every day, every hour should be – how to revive the economy, how to reduce unemployment, how to reduce poverty, not that theme number one should be some kind of farce strike. However, this suits the ruling coalition and it is something truly devastating.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54220	Two minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to point out that the legislator of this law did not correctly interpret the essence of the amendment, and this can be seen from the reasons written for not accepting the amendment. The SRS Parliament Club proposed this amendment, in addition to the fact that the NBS will prescribe the amount of dinars received in the past are persons who are obliged to pay to the bank, that the NBS will also schedule payments in the received dinars. The NBS will determine what amount is necessary to carry out the exchange rate and above which the exchangeholders are obliged to pay the money to the bank. This amendment of the SRS parliamentary club provides for the possibility of being defined by another deadline, other than that of seven working days, which would refer to gearboxes. It is further stated in the explanation that the setting of a deadline can only be defined by law. Now that they're already making changes and supplementing this bill, the opportunity is, if you want authorized shapeshifters to have some other deadline, to do it now, when they're changing, so that it doesn't happen that soon we have changes and additions to this law, as often happens with many laws that change for several months.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54222	The 6th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54223	This amendment to the SRS refers to that segment which defines penalties for violations, and we, since amendments and additions to the law provide for new bank obligations, have also been provided for and requested that a new point of 16a be classified within Article 44a and that penalties be prescribed for banks which do not comply with the provisions introduced through these amendments and additions, which are to take over all data on the status and other changes of the legal entities. Since the sentence is provided for in the event that the NBS do not surrender it, since you have made a commitment that they must take it from the economic and legal persons, we considered that for this type of irresponsibility or unfinished part of the job, as a obligation that the proposing would be entrusted through these changes and additions, that criminal penalties should also be provided for such a thing. This is a law which together with one law within this united agenda should in principle affect liquidity in the Republic of Serbia, something with which the Republic of Serbia and everything in it in the economic world and life works, has the biggest and most serious problem, it is the law on tight interest, this law on payment. Even the concept of 2009 when the Law on Payments was adopted, authorities and officials announced that these amendments and additions or that payment law would make a major contribution to improving liquidity in the Republic of Serbia. Two years later, the liquidity situation is worse than it was in 2009. So that all these changes and additions that we are dealing with these days will essentially not improve liquidity in Serbia, nor the position of legal persons, businesses, all those participants in our economic life. Today you have a situation where the state changes the interest rate law. We talked about it today. At the same time, that state is the biggest debtor. While it promotes a policy of irresponsibility in the context of reconciliation of its commitments to the economy, according to natural persons, it doesn't matter to whom, at the same time, we deal with amendments and additions to laws that should possibly be in the function of improving liquidity. If you look at the picture of the economy in Serbia in general today, two-thirds of the loans taken from business banks or even through other models are taken in principle to finance liquidity. The state on the one hand subsidizes it. In order to subsidise it withdraws loans from international financial institutions again, and this vicious cycle of debt and poverty cannot be terminated. What the whole story is about is that even today, the Eurobor is holding back, that the evaluations of economists are that by the end of this year the eurobor will be about two. I'll remind you that the vast majority of the loans, which this state has withdrawn and which you have imposed on the citizens on their backs, have been withdrawn at the rate of one or less of these. So, the Eurobor is going to double by the end of the year. This will automatically increase all debts in this country, given that the large majority or 80% of loans in this country are indexed in euro and all this is something that will bring Serbia's core economy down the scale if it is allowed to go down. Therefore, these changes and additions, regardless of whether you have accepted these amendments or not, will not strike hunger because the amendments have not been accepted, since it has become modern in Serbia today, we will not drink any less water, but in any case, as well as that unfortunate person who decided on such a decision, we believe that Serbia has no perspective with this relationship through the economy, according to liquidity, according to payment traffic, according to the capital market, according to investment, pension funds, it is quite the same. What can fundamentally change opportunities and circumstances in Serbia is that, along with those poor people from New Belgrade, you go into opposition or a little political retirement and that in Serbia some new national conscious, politically responsible people get a chance to regulate its payment turnover, the capital market and everything else that is vital to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-19-0.u54224	Three minutes of MP time was used. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. This is the last amendment to the search in detail. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. This concludes the afternoon session and our work for today. The work continues tomorrow, April 20th, at 10:00 p.m., by searching the details of the bill following the agenda. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 82 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for working under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are prevented from attending the sittings: Slavica Djukić Dejanović, Branko Ružić, Zoran Nikolic, Konstantin Samofalov, Maja Vidinović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandra Jankovic and Bojan Kostreš. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, in addition to the representative of Proposor Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure and Energy, invited the sittings to attend and Slavoljub Vukicevic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, Dusan Mrakic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, and Dragan Jovanovic, Assistant Minister for Infrastructure and Energy. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLACES OF THE TRANSPORT OF THE TRANSPORT OF THE TRANSPORT IN DRUMS SOBOJ (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Milan Avramović, Nikola Savivić, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Boris Pelević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Šormazić, Radan Šor Šormazić, Radjan Šarić, Momarić, Možarić, Mirožarić, Mirožina Mirović, Mirović, Mir, Mirović, Mir, Mir, Mirović, Mir, Mir, Mirović, Mir, Mir, Mirož Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mirož. You have received reports from the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before the move to search the draft law in particular, I remind you that the amendments were withdrawn by the MP Gordan Rajkov to members 5 and 9, which she submitted on 31 March 2011, and by the Committee on Transport and Links to Articles 38, 41 and 42, which he submitted on 13 April 2011. I also remind you that the Legislative Committee, based on Article 163(2), is Article 2. Rules of Procedure, rejected as an incomplete amendment to the 53rd, which was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric and Srdjan Spasojevic. According to Article 163(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation shall be as follows: Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Just to remind the MPs about the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups: the authorised representative of the PUPS MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, the authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, MP Miletic Mihajlovic, the authorised representative of the DSS MP Milos Radulovic, the authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Mico Rogovic and the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Nikola Savivić. The other parliamentary groups are represented so far by the presidents of the parliamentary groups, if there are any changes, please provide us with information on this. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The Government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nikola Savic.
