ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51658	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the meetings are attended by 122 MPs. I would like to remind you that Article 168 is Section 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that, during the session, on an urgent procedure, proposals for selection, appointment, resolution and termination of office may be put on the agenda of the sitting, provided that most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert the cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are in the hall and there are working conditions. Proposals for placing on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure during the sitting, pursuant to Article 168(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that, following an urgent procedure on the agenda of this session, the positions of candidates for the election of election members of the State Council of Prosecutors from the public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors with permanent office, which was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 8 March 2011 by the State Council of Prosecutors and the proposal for a decision on the election of members of the High Council of Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 8 March 2011. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The honourable MPs, as you have been informed, have resigned one number of members of the government, so I suggest that the National Assembly determines the resignations of members of the government after the conditions have been met. You have received your resignations: Diana Dragutinovic, acting Minister of Finance, Saša Dragina on the duty of Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Petar Skundrić on the duty of Minister of Mining and Energy, Milutin Mrkonjic on the duty of Minister of Infrastructure, Milan Markovic on the duty of Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Slobodan Milosavljevic on the duty of Minister of Trade and Service, Bozidar Djelic on the duty of Minister of Education and Technological Development, Zarko Obradović on the duty of Minister of Education, Jasna Matić on the duty of Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, Oliver Dulic on the duty of Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, Nebojjko Bradić on the duty of Minister of Culture, Bogoljub Šijakovic on the duty of Minister of Religion, Srdjan Sretkovic, Minister of Diasporaspor and Svetozar of Human Rights for Human Rights. In accordance with Article 133(2), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). The Government Act and Article 278, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly at the first next session, without a search, finds out, or acknowledges that a member of the Government has resigned and is not decided on the day of resignation of a member of the Government. As a result, the National Assembly finds that the said members of the government have resigned from office as government minister and, thus, on the day of their resignation, the prime minister's term in office in the government ceases. And now, since I called for the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, pursuant to Article 101(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I interrupt the work of the First Session of the First Regular Session in 2011, and you will be notified of its extension in good time. So we continue at 11.00 hours with the work of the Second Special Session. [[The session was suspended at 10:15 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51659	OTHER SPECIAL SESSION 14 March 2011 (The sitting started at 11.10 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 122 MPs attend the meeting, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 131 MPs in the hall and there are working conditions. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings, in addition to the MPs and promoter Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, are also attended by candidates for government members Verica Kalanovic, Dusan Petrovic, Nebojsa Ćirić, Milutin Mrkonjic, Milan Markovic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran Stankovic, Oliver Dulic, Predrag Markovic and Srdjan Srekovic. I also called for the cabinet vice-presidents Ivica Dačić, Jovan Krkobabiæ and Bozidar Djelic, as well as ministers Snezana Malović, Dragan Sutanovac, Vuk Jeremic, Snezana Samardžić Marković, Rasim Ljajic, Goran Bogdanović and Sulejman Ugljanin. Let me invite them into the O.R. and get started. In accordance with Article 88(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I called for this session exclusively for Monday, 14 March 2011, so within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure, as well as those laid down in Article 87(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to select the proposed members of the government as soon as possible, so that the Government can function in full orderly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you could see, for the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, I found the following Dn e n e d: I remind you that it is Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the agenda of the Special Sessions shall be determined by the President of the National Assembly, so that, in relation to the agenda I have established, no changes can be proposed. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – THE CHOICE AND LAW OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT MEMBER STATES You have received a proposal for a candidate for members of the Government, which is in accordance with Article 133(8). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 25(2). The Government Act, submitted by the Prime Minister, Dr Mirko Cvetkovic. In this way, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, conditions were met: to open a search on candidates for members of the Government, which is in accordance with Article 268. Rules of Procedure; to elect members of the Government, which is in accordance with Article 99 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that members of the Government take an oath before the National Assembly, which is in accordance with Article 16. The government law. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of members of the parliamentary group, which means: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the URS parliamentary group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Embassy group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. According to Article 268. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on the motion for candidates for members of the Government. Does the promoter, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51661	Dear People's MPs, it is an honor and pleasure to present the programme of the reconstructed Serbian government, which is a coalition for European Serbia, the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition and a group of minority parties. The reconstructed government will implement the country's strategic priorities over the next year. I'm here to tell you, esteemed MPs, what the Government has in its plan of action and to ask for your support for the implementation of the programme that I'm about to present. The priorities of the Serbian government, based on which it was formed in June 2008, remain, of course, unchanged, which are: full commitment to Serbia's rapid entry into the EU, the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the Republic of Serbia, the development of Serbia's economy and improving the standard of living for its citizens, the development of a socially responsible state and a solidarity society, the uncompromising fight against crime and corruption and full co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Serbia, led by the government that I have so far had the honour of leading, consistently implementing reforms in all segments of society, has made a decisive and fundamental step towards full membership in the EU. Before us, the continuation of the implementation of the Action Plan is in line with the European Commission and the continuation of reform of Serbian society on its way to the EU. In order for these reform tasks to be fully implemented, the government will forward to the Assembly in the coming months for adoption of a series of system laws, which will regulate the way in which MPs are elected, the issues of blank resignation, the definition of public property, the issue of restitution, and, at the same time, the taking of energy measures agreed with the European Commission, which will successfully complete the start of reforms in the judiciary. The ratification of the SAA is under way in parliaments of the remaining 11 EU countries that have not done so so far. So far, this document has been ratified by parliaments of 16 EU countries, which are Spain, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Malta, Bulgaria, Estonia, Greece, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Cyprus, Austria, Slovenia and Luxembourg, and the SAA has also been ratified in the European Parliament. A successful completion of the planned reform processes will allow Serbia to significantly improve the legal order and the country's economic system by the end of this year, bringing it closer to the EU standards to the greatest extent, and, respected MPs, to the status of candidates for full membership in the EU, thus fulfilling the most important task set before it by Serbian citizens. For the successful implementation of the Action Plan, we will mobilise all segments of society, state institutions, civil society and the general public, and I believe that this high house, as well as in the previous period, will effectively implement reforms from the responsibilities of the National Assembly. Full membership in the EU as a historic goal and obtaining candidate status as a necessary and most important condition on the road to achieving this goal is of crucial interest to Serbia and all of our citizens. That is why this government and all of us together have a great responsibility and a commitment to take advantage of this historic opportunity and take a serious step towards a better and safer life for Serbia and its citizens in the European family of countries. Of course, the high standard and quality of life of people in EU member countries is one of the key reasons for Serbia's EU membership for this government, as well as for the whole of Serbia, no doubt the best alternative. That is why the government will work decisively to complete all the reform processes that our coalition has outlined as its primary goal in forming the government in 2008. In part, we showed that our commitment to Serbia's entry into the EU is moving forward with the intention of continuing to develop as much political, economic, cultural relations as possible with all countries of the world, especially with the countries of our region. In addition, this government formulates and implements a state policy that, in addition to its primary goal, is EU membership, implies the best possible relations with other major countries in the world, which are primarily the United States, the Russian Federation and China. Dear People's MPs, I think it is very important that Serbia is a state that has made a key step in improving good neighbourly relations with the countries of the region and has become the central point of regional co-operation, which is a fundamental assumption of stability and long-term prosperity in our part of Europe. The government of the Republic of Serbia is determined and consistent in the view that it will never recognise KIM's independence and take all available diplomatic activities to preserve KIM within the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, the Government may be satisfied with the results so far in the limited number of countries that have recognised so-called ‘the Government’. independence of Kosovo. The government will also, knowingly, responsibly and committed to the preservation of KIM within Serbia and managed by the Constitution and decisions of the National Assembly, do everything in its power to reach solutions that will allow the historic reconciliation of the Serbian and Albanian peoples through a peaceful and diplomatic path. From the very beginning, we believed that dialogue was the only way to find a mutually acceptable solution that was long-term sustainable and that would guarantee the long-term stability of the region. Serbia has succeeded in its efforts, based on UN General Assembly Resolution, to establish dialogue with temporary authorities in Pristina. In addition, this dialogue represents further support for the government's efforts and activities to ensure the survival of the Serb people in KIM, as well as improving its economic and social position. Dear People's MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia was faced with the challenges of the biggest economic crisis in the history of the world immediately after its formation in the autumn of 2008. Such an unremembered financial breakdown has created a situation that has seriously shaken the economies of the world's richest countries and which has led some of the EU countries to the brink of bankruptcy. During the night, we were witnesses, financial institutions collapsed, world-renowned companies went bankrupt, and a vast army of people in the world was out of a job every day. Under such conditions, according to world standards of extremely unfavourable conditions, the government of the Republic of Serbia has managed to minimise the consequences of the country's economic crisis and preserve stability. However, the effects of the economic crisis have also affected our economy and every citizen and we are all, and I personally, very well aware of it. We know very well how many people have lost their jobs, how our people live, and how many difficulties they face in everyday life. Therefore, in the next year, the government of the Republic of Serbia faces the biggest challenge, and this is daily intensive work to reduce unemployment and raise the standard of living for Serbian citizens. I would like to say from this place that the Serbian government will not regret the effort to succeed in achieving this goal. Serbian citizens should live better today and right now and we will do everything possible to get there. On the macroplan, we managed to preserve large economic systems and banks from collapse during the worst period of crisis, but now we need to shift focus to strategic sectors that will represent development generators in the post-crisis period. Only the dynamic growth of the size and competitiveness of the Serbian economy is a real basis for increasing employment and raising the standard of living of each Serbian population. To achieve these objectives, we will implement a development economic policy, which is also foreseen by a new model of economic growth within the framework of the 20-20 Serbian development concept, a plan prepared by leading Serbian economists, which will be managed by the government in the coming period. So, in order to realise these objectives and improve the standard of citizens, this government will in the months ahead implement economic policy measures that will enable us to: 1) supply of basic life supplies at acceptable prices for all citizens; 2) increase employment through new forms of incentives to create new jobs; 3) further reduction in public spending and fiscal deficits, in order to ensure long-term macroeconomic stability... (President: Members of the Parliament, please allow us to hear the Prime Minister. 4) the dynamic growth of economic activity based on the production of exchangeable goods; 5) the increased investments in agricultural production aimed at higher yields and higher level of product finalisation; 6) support for export performance through the establishment of a development bank and a more efficient guarantee mechanism for export affairs; 7) attracting new investments through the improvement of business environment and even regional development; 8) systematic support for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector and innovative activities; 9) reform of public enterprises, which implies the elimination of monopoly, introduction of professional management and reduction of subsidies and 10) more efficient management of large infrastructure facilities. We are aware that the investment potential in infrastructure building, both transport and energy, agriculture and information, is not sufficiently exploited, which is an additional internal resource, which will start to contribute more to economic growth already during this calendar year. We will focus on the resources that Serbia has, and not sufficiently rationally, benefit from, agriculture, the food industry, mining, energy and most importantly, the innovative spirit of citizens. Dear People's MPs, investing in the dynamic growth of the economy will in no way reduce the social responsibility of this government and our efforts to protect the most vulnerable categories of the population. In this respect, the new social protection law, which is in the assembly procedure, will significantly improve the quality of protection for those most vulnerable and will cover a greater number of social protection users. The government's social responsibility concerns not only the protection of the most vulnerable groups of citizens to whom we pay special attention, but also to all citizens of Serbia. The government will therefore make necessary, necessary decisions in the coming period, taking into account the interests of the widest layers of population, in order to significantly reduce the number of poor and improve the living conditions of all citizens. The government has taken major steps to build an effective system of fight against all forms of corruption and crime, aware that just overcoming these social problems is a matter of Serbia's future and one of the key conditions for joining the EU. A law on the confiscation of property stemming from criminal acts has been adopted and a Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets has been established. The results achieved by the law have shown unequivocally that it is a very powerful and effective mechanism in the fight against all types of crime. The application of this law in the previous two years has temporarily or permanently taken away property whose value has been estimated at over 300m euros. This property has been temporarily or permanently taken away from about 200 natural persons, against whom proceedings are being conducted, as well as from associated legal and natural persons. That puts a serious blow to organized crime. At the same time, key channels of international drug trafficking and people were cut. In this way, Serbia has made a significant contribution to the international fight against organised crime. In the next period, one of the priorities will be to increase the efficiency, lighting of criminal offences and cut deadlines for the conduct of criminal proceedings. Also, in the fight against corruption, the Anti-Corruption Agency has been set up, more severe penalties for the detection of corruption, and a legal obligation has been introduced for all state officials at the republican and local level, the heads of state institutions, public enterprises, to publicly declare the property they own. A mechanism for fighting crime and corruption has been well established. We must constantly improve both uncompromisingly and unselectively to correctly remove the source of corruption and punish all those who have tried to benefit in an illegal manner. Finally, by the end of the government's mandate, a reform of the judiciary will be fully implemented to build an effective and independent judiciary and prosecution, strengthening the rule of law and legal certainty. In the field of international law, the government, as well as in the current period, will continue the policy of strict business of all our country's international obligations, including co-operation with the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague. According to such a policy, Serbia is fully committed to the successful completion of co-operation with the court, including the extradition of the remaining two fugitives, Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic. Respected citizens of Serbia, respected MPs, the Serbian government remains consistent in the fight to achieve the principles on which it was formed. As prime minister, I will make it even more unique and more determined in the realisation of key objectives, work and act as a team and respond quickly to citizens' needs and problems. In European integration, we have come a huge way thanks to the extraordinary efforts of all institutions, but primarily Serbian citizens. That is why citizens have the right to criticise, to be dissatisfied, and we are the ones who need to accept and endure all these criticisms and make our work better and more effective. That's why I'm going to personally try to introduce zero tolerance for negativity, haughtiness and anything that pops out of a set common policy. All members of this government will have to be even more responsible from now on in their work, modest in their conduct, worthy to achieve results, with even more hearing about the needs of citizens who are where they are. The interests of citizens and solving their problems will be much higher than ever the top priority for each member of the government. For this reason, respected MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia will, by the end of its term, implement systemic measures that will increase the employment and standard of life of all Serbian citizens in the long term, but also take operational measures that will, in the short run, lead to the relief of the current difficulties of the most endangered layers of the population and the improvement of the lives of citizens. The government has shown that it has the courage to make difficult decisions that are in the interest of Serbian citizens and will make them in the future. Only in this way can we provide certainty for the long-term prosperity of our country and for the generations that come after us, but also for a better life for all our citizens today and immediately. I am convinced that the members of the government I propose have the necessary knowledge, energy and responsibility to do the great work that is ahead of us and achieve the goals that are in the interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51662	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Mirk Cvetkovic. I ask if the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is Mr. Balint Pastor. Here you go. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I apologize, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic is advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51663	Madam President, Article 27. Rules of Procedure. It is really not worthy to enter today's debate without Mr. Cvetkovic's exposé. I followed, and I tried to record basic thesis, but only the economic program that Mr. Cvetkovic was talking about has seven or eight points. I think it is irresponsible for us to discuss such large issues as the issue of the work of the future government without having insight into what you said. Is there any possibility that we can get the material that you read so that we can conduct an argument that's justified, or is this going to turn into what's the rule of Serbian politics? Or take responsibility for a debate that will be too arbitrary, as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51664	I think Mr. Jovanovic's suggestion is in place. The prime minister thinks it's okay to multiply the exposés, so you'll have it. You know we have a chance to have a one-hour break right now, and we're gonna keep working at 1240 hours right now. [[After break – 12.45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I ask the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, to report for the word. Mr. Balint Pastor has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51666	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the current and future ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the third opportunity when we can discuss Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's government. And this will be the third chance when we give support to that government. The first chance was on July 7th 2008, when the government was elected. The second opportunity was on December 18th 2008, when the opposition submitted a motion for a vote of no confidence to the government of Mr Cvetkovic. This is the third chance we can give the court of law on the work of the current government. We have in the previous two cases supported the government's work, and we will do so now, as I just said, for several reasons. This government has some positive results in its work. For us, it is of paramount importance that Serbia is finally in line with a country whose citizens travel without visas to most EU countries. In addition, the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, the Law on the Jurisdictions of the AP Vojvodina, the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, was brought in, Radovan Karadzic was arrested. These may be the most important results of Mr. Cvetkovic's government. There are also many other promises and joint aspirations that we need to realise, and that is why we will give support to this government. For us, political stability comes first. We don't think it would be good for Serbia to go to the elections now. We don't think that would be fatal, but we don't think that would be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It would not be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because the government is waiting for several other tasks in the coming months. Certainly significant, it would certainly be important for the Republic of Serbia to gain EU membership candidate status. It would not be possible to achieve this, if we now had an election campaign, an emergency election, the formation of a new assembly of the Assembly and the Government, we would certainly have a delay of at least half a year and we think that it does not suit anyone in Serbia. But I am concerned that the prime minister said just a moment ago, only that the goal of EU membership candid not say a word about whether the goal is to further determine the starting date of the negotiations in EU membership. We all know very well that only gaining EU membership candidate status is half a result. Mr Djelic certainly knows that there are countries in our environment that have been candidates for EU membership for several years. For example, Macedonia has been running for more than five years, but has not yet set a date for the start of negotiations. We therefore believe that everything should be done in the interest of Serbia not only getting EU membership candidate status by the end of the year, but also setting a starting date for EU membership negotiations. In addition, we believe that there is a need to pass a law on restitution, a law on public property. It is very good that the prime minister also spoke of these very important legal projects in his exposé. But he wasn't talking, for example, about the law on the original incomes of the AP Vojvodina. We believe that the adoption of a law on public property, which, by the law of the AP Vojvodina and the units of local self-government, after 16 years, would get their property back, would only be half a solution. The second half of this solution is the adoption of a law on the original incomes of the AP Vojvodina. I hope it hasn't given up on this law by the fall. According to my knowledge, the adoption of the law is also a condition, in a way, to obtain EU membership candidate status. We also believe that pre-election promises to create hundreds of thousands of new jobs and raise standards should be realised. I hope the government will work harder to achieve that goal. I also hope that the agreement between the ruling DS coalition's headquarters and the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians on the change of administrative districts in Serbia will also be met. I'd like to remind all of you that this is part of our coalition agreement. This was to be done by the end of 2008, and is now March 2011. We've talked about this more than once, but there's no results. It is not a national issue, it is not only in the interest of the Hungarian national community or the Bosniak national community, it would be in the interest of the whole of Serbia, because there is a series of illogicalities stemming from the still valid Management Environment Regulation, practically from 1992. I don't think it's going to be worth much to us statistical regions, it won't be worth much to us in the statistical regions, if we're still working on a 1992 "log" that doesn't take into account the flow of certain rivers and that we simply can't expect EU funding, that we can't work on strategies for the development of certain municipalities, certain areas, statistical regions, if the foundation isn't good for us. That is why we believe that this is a life issue and that, during the term of office of this government, it should finally be amended by the Administrative Districts Regulation. I hope that happens. We also believe that the AP Vojvodina office should finally be opened in Brussels. I don't know why we don't have this office yet, why we still don't have the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when the current Statute of the AP Vojvodina, to which this National Assembly has given its consent. Gentlemen of the Parliament, please let us hear Mr Balint Pastor. ) These are some plans that should be implemented. We believe these issues will focus on the work of Mr Cvetkovic's government over the next year. I talked about it last year, to see certain illogicalities in the merger of ministries, and not to think that the government's reconstruction is something epochal. We do not think that because, for example, we do not think that it will work anymore in the interest of achieving the rights and freedoms of national minorities after the abolition of the independent Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. But it is good that our amendments have been accepted, that the newly formed ministry will be called the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the state administration and local self-government. This is a positive signal to members of the national minorities, and it is even better to form a human and minority rights administration, as an authority of the administration in the form of this ministry. We think it was extremely important that there was a Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. I want to publicly thank Minister Chiplic for his work in the past period. Of course, we did not always agree with all the solutions and did not always agree with the minister personally, but he plays an extremely large role in the adoption of the National Minority Councils Act. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, it's a good thing the Ministry of Trade is joining the Ministry of Agriculture, not vice versa. If the jobs of the Ministry of Agriculture were to enter the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Trade, we think it would be an extremely bad signal to agricultural producers. This solution is much better. I don't think it's just a line of words, that it's not just about symbolism, but this means that the government will work more seriously in the interest of agricultural producers. As I did before, and Minister Dragin I would like to thank you for your work so far. Of course, we know that agricultural producers can never be satisfied and should not be satisfied with the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, but certain data suggests that this ministry under the leadership of Mr Dragin has had results. I'd just like to remind you of the record surplus last year of $1.2 billion and the total growth of agricultural production in 2010 by 14%. I hope that these results will be current this year and that this ministry will function similarly under the leadership of Mr Petrovic. I hope that the sentence from Mr. Prime Minister's exposé will make sure that the government makes sure that there is more investment in agricultural production and that agriculture will be a priority for this government in every sense. I would like to remind you that agriculture, unfortunately, is the only branch of the economy in Serbia that operates with surpluses. It is therefore necessary to support agricultural producers. I hope that Mr Petrovic, as minister, will be able to fight for adequate budgets. There's never enough budget for agriculture, but I hope there will be an injection, in some way, in agriculture in the coming months. I've talked about it both this and last week, and now I'd like to repeat, if it wasn't a good signal that the Minister of Agriculture isn't from Vojvodina. Of course, I don't want to say that we have anything against Mr Petrovic. As I said earlier, we think that, as vice president of the DS, he will be able to fight for larger funds for agriculture and that is in the interest of all agricultural producers. But there will be a negative change in the sense that he will be the first agriculture minister to not come from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, except for Mr Slobodan Milosavljevic, who served as minister for several months in the past government. Regardless of this, I would like to tell Mr Petrovic that he can count on us and that we will certainly monitor his work and that we will provide all the necessary support we can provide in the interest of agriculture finally getting that place in the government policy it deserves. I would like to say to Mr Predrag Markovic that it is a pleasure for us to have him as Minister of Culture. He is, by the way, the winner of recognition for historical merits in the relations between the Serbian and Hungarian people. That confession was received when he was president of the National Assembly. I hope it will encourage him to work in the interest of bringing the Serbian and Hungarian people closer, of course, in the sphere of culture. Right now, I'd like to point to two problems that exist in the sphere of culture. The first is – a competition that was published for the purchase of publications published in 2010. The competition opened until April 8th. This contest has been published in such a way over the past years. The point is that the ministry will carry out the purchase of selected titles, the first editions of publications in Serbian, published in 2010, on the basis of the Commission's proposed list of books for purchase, and in the second instance, the selection will take place among the proposed books for libraries according to its needs. No, sir, future minister, titles in minority languages. These libraries, which have a significant fund of books in the languages of national minorities, cannot renew the fund in the sense that the fund is being extended with titles in the languages of national minorities. That's one disastrous solution. We think it should change very quickly. This is not only a problem for the Hungarian national community, this is a problem for all national communities living in the Republic of Serbia. Another problem that should be addressed is the adoption, that is, the second priority, the adoption of laws on historical archives or what will already be called the law. You know very well that a mixed committee of historians has been formed. That mixed committee of historians is supposed to investigate events from the 40s last century. The commission is formed and the commission is working, but has difficulty in working, and will have difficulties in working until a new law on historical archives is passed and these historical archives are opened. Because the law that regulates this area was passed 16 years ago, it's completely anachron, and therefore we urge you to propose as soon as possible a new law on the historical archives. As for the financials and the Vojvodina, I'd just like to say very briefly some of the things I said last week. It is a very bad signal that this government will not have a minister from the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We have received biographies of proposed candidates, and according to the latest biography of Mr. Dulic, he was born in Belgrade, which is not a significant fact, we are not entering into who was born, of course, but it says he lives in Belgrade. He's the only minister in the government, and the current and future, whose biography says where he lives. It is normal for the minister to work and have a job in Belgrade, but for him to live in Belgrade, i.e. He is not from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, because he was born in Belgrade and lives here. It's a very bad signal for the citizens of the Autonomous Region. We do not, of course, believe that the government should be drawn up on a territorial key, but it is truly devastating that the government will not have at least one minister from the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In addition, I said earlier that a law on public property should be passed, the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina and should be passed (President: Gentlemen Members, I really ask you to be quieter. ) and it is necessary to change the way of thinking by which Vojvodina's budget cost is 7%. We've been listening to this formulation for years. Ladies and gentlemen, Vojvodina is not a budget cost of 7% and therefore takes much more attention to the development of the AP Vojvodina. There are also data that GDP per head in the AP Vojvodina is 5% lower than the average of the Republic, and we have only come to this. Let me get this straight, 'cause I'm running out of time. For us, political stability is most important and therefore we will support the work of this government, which has some results in the previous period, but we insist on the adoption of the law on the original incomes of Vojvodina, the law on restitution, the law on public property, the opening of an office in Brussels, the AP Vojvodina, and the Government of Mr Cvetkovic can count on our support not only today, but also in the future, if he will pursue these objectives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51667	I thank and give my word to the MP of the people, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51668	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen ministers, candidates for ministers, Mr Cvetkovic, colleagues and colleagues, first, Mr Cvetkovic, one human question. I listened very carefully to you and I really don't see any space for that kind of relationship that I think is necessary to our society. And if you were Barak Obama, you wouldn't be able to solve Serbia's problems on your own, and yet you haven't closed us down, but you've nailed the door for mutual co-operation. That's what I think is the first problem of your government, that it doesn't have that quality that needs an institution that runs a crisis society. Serious conversation, mutual dialogue, honesty, willingness to take responsibility, to have problems, and there we must be honest, which are largely inherited, sort of solved. Mr Cvetkovic, you have read us your speech, we have listened to it, despite the intention, which is obvious, that something changes in Serbia itself, we do not see any concrete measure that will allow these changes. When we discussed the country's European path in September 2008, then your vice-president Djelic, a representative of the government during the debate on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we clearly told you from the LDP that half of Serbia cannot go to Europe, and the other half stay somewhere else. You can't, Mr. Cvetkovic, solve the problems in which the country is in today by ignoring us all and excluding us from the process of analysis of the problem, running for solutions and engaging for these solutions to be achieved. Why are we discussing government reconstruction today, Mr. Cvetkovic? Was it because it was the wrong policy of the government or because your relationships had been disrupted? Speaking of the strategic priorities of your cabinet, you quoted yourself and what you said three years ago -- European integration, the preservation of Kosovo, an increase in living standards, less or more co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which is a prerequisite for achieving these goals. How successful were we in that, Mr. Cvetkovic? We compromised the European idea in the country, bureaucratized it, reduced it to a paragraph. We put ourselves in a position to cheat Moscow in the morning, Brussels this afternoon, and in the meantime, Beijing and Washington. Your cabinet, Mr Cvetkovic, has fulfilled only 13% of defined obligations according to an official report in the last quarter of 2010. Not for us, Mr Cvetkovic, the idea of a European Serbia is what we recognize in a whole series of moves that have been taking your cabinet. We have been partners in realising this policy, we have done a lot to make this European future of Serbia a reality. We voted together for some laws, which makes us proud. We carry the burden of some laws that have left scars on our politics. We had no problem voting together for the Anti-discrimination Act, but the problem was within your European ruling coalition. We had no problem supporting the change of passports, but that problem existed within your coalition. We had a problem with voting for the Information Act, so we made up the law, and in response we got poor Serbia in which 20,000 people, not LDP members, Mr Cvetkovic, but 20,000 citizens of this country show respect for Zoran Djindjic, but also the desire to implement that policy and bring it back to life in such a way that they can't be seen anywhere. I don't think Boris Tadic ordered us to understand each other right away, I think it's the result of a deep disease that destroyed those fragile foundations of a democratic society that we tried to build. We worked together to reform the judiciary, but it seems to me that the whole government, as it tends to hide behind the president of the state, hid behind the justice minister, so at one point we were the bearers of that reform, first of all because we were aware of the motivations of those who were most resistant to it. Where is this European Serbia today? In a double excise policy, the one that makes our society pay for less quality gasoline, because it makes it more artificially expensive. Where is European policy in mutual relations – in Sandzak? Where is European policy in relation to the region? You mentioned that we are the central point in the region. Enough of that mitomania. What is one such attitude built on? How does our ambassador in Podgorica feel, who has not even been informed that we have in the meantime erased the strategy for relations with Serbs in the diaspora and the region, in which we have sought for them what we ourselves do not allow? We who organised ourselves as a reformed tribal community, gave ourselves the right to deal with the constitutions of Montenegro, Croatia or Macedonia, convinced that this must be our obligation before, for example, the obligation to amend the 2006 Constitution. Despite everything, we want to help you. The problems you're talking about are real. It's not true that you and your cabinet are people of no quality. Since I've been in the government, I know of at least one quality that I recognize among you, and yet it's some personal dignity that won't allow you to leave the positions you face with the problems you're facing. But that's not enough. It is not enough to show resilience and endurance to problems that, before breaking one government, will break the whole society. That's why we're criticizing you. You can't, Mr. Cvetkovic, come to parliament to talk about the government's reconstruction, and not a word about the candidates you're proposing for the jobs that this government should deal with. There must be some quality in these people. There is probably some quality in Dusan Petrovic, whom you have proposed as Minister of Agriculture and Trade, in Predrag Markovic, I do not know what the ministry is called, I believe he does not know either, in Mr Stankovic. Who will say anything about them and their qualities, if you don't, about the problems that exist in your ruling coalition? We don't have to tolerate them and understand them. We can agree that it is difficult to run a ruling coalition, but before a government appears asking parliament for support for the last year of its term, it is necessary to say what the government wants to do and which is why what it announces will be better than what we have so far. Mr. Cvetkovic, your cabinet has collapsed to defend your authority and endangerment. You changed your vice president and made your argument clear. What is much more important to us at this point than the phrases we are talking about, because there is no essence in your exposé, in a simple sentence – that you have solved your misunderstandings, because your cabinet has not fallen apart on the criticism of your policy, nonsense about Kosovo, nonsense about regional approach, nonsense in foreign policy, in business activities, in human rights and civil freedoms, their affirmation. He fell apart on mutual relations, through a language that is unworthy of parliament. We don't have two governments. If we want to live in a normal country, then we have to accept the rules of normal life. Those rules oblige us to respect the public interest, the interest of this society, the interest that has commanded us to tell you in 2008 to make a mistake. You are now telling us about the problems that have arisen from the economic crisis that has shaken the world and burdened the functioning of the government. Mr. Cvetkovic, when this crisis occurred, we have proposed some measures for you, and the government has responded that the crisis will bypass us, and that, after it bypasses us, it will positively affect us, that today the crisis that has come would become too cheap an excuse for a whole series of problems that cannot be justified. Let's go dot by point. The European agenda of your government – 13% of the required requirements measured in the last quarter. Can you do better? Parliament is no obstacle to such a thing. We remind you that European policy and European values are not only derived from the standards that we are administratively adopting, but from the ability for society to change through this process of European integration. Are we different today? Not at all. What examples do you see that? Well, on those key examples that built that wrong policy over the years. I think it is pointless to prove the measure of patriotism between us, but we cannot ignore after three years of your government, Mr Cvetkovic, the fact that the policy you have built towards Kosovo, firstly, a policy that has never received support in this parliament, because the only resolution that was filed in 2008 has been withdrawn, a policy that has suffered a failure in front of international institutions that has asked for an understanding, which none of us rejoices, but obliges us to find alternatives. We have no right anymore, Mr Cvetkovic, to the wrong approach to Kosovo politics, only because we are political cowards who are unwilling to accept reality. Why would citizens accept the necessity you speak of and the economic reality, if the government is not ready to accept political reality and tell the truth to this society about Kosovo, about the state of the Serb community, about the causes of such a situation, about an approach that will be made better and better? We don't need phrases, even if not on Kosovo topics. The economic crisis, the economy - we are the only society in Europe in which the government and the government are at war with the economy. That's a fact. You offered tycoon heads to the hungry society, as a satisfaction for empty stomachs. Now the head is gone, and the stomachs are still empty. Meanwhile, your personnel began to represent themselves as state tycoons. Where is the political and business partnership in Serbia? He's not anywhere. Where's the honest policy and union partnership? He's not anywhere. Just improvisation and demagogy, and what the Americans, the French, the Germans, the Greeks, the Montenegrins, all the serious societies faced with the crisis, let's say, the reform of the pension sector, we transferred to another government. Raising competitiveness is not a phrase, Mr Cvetkovic. You know what affects the competitiveness of a society. How can we raise our own competitiveness if we're still hostages of illusion? You didn't say anything about NATO, not a word. You have not told us one word about the reasons for the strategic agreement we sign and the objectives we sign with Russia, which has been announced. Will the same effects be the same as in the energy agreement? Who is responsible in this country for running the NIS so that it ended the business year with a loss of 30m euros, and a year after that, the Russian state ended a business year with a gross profit of 360m and an oil and gas derived from Serbia's territory for 750m, which were sold mostly in Serbia, with a mine rent that is incomparably less than in Russia, at the same price that they are extracted and tariffd in Russia? What is it called when Miskovic sells "Delta" for a billion, and we NIS for 400 million, so we give up our country's monopoly on behalf of another country's monopoly? In particular, if we are talking about economy, employment policy, people in this country need to know that there are no jobs without new markets, that our markets are closed by the wrong policy, a policy where there are too many continuitys today. That we need investors, that they are unfortunately not where this government is looking for them, because these investors are bringing their employees, as is the case with an agreement on the construction of a bridge in Vienna signed with the Chinese state. Chinese credit, Chinese material, Chinese workers, and we end up cheating on them, we don't meet any of our commitments. Investors are in the west, in the EU, in America, where capital exists. If we talk about economic activities, you have replaced the only effective one, with the defence minister, the only economically measurable, effective minister in your government, you have replaced Dinkic. Why don't you say that clearly? The subsidy policy was not wrong, it was wrong for you to give that policy meaning. And other countries are helping their economy, but it's not a return to socialism, as we are interpreted here, but a partnership between the economy and the state, a partnership where the state profites from. The American vault was profiting from the loans it gave to the American economy. Today is Dau Jones over 12 grand, two years ago there were six thousand points. The crisis is over, Mr. Cvetkovic. Will it continue with such an approach to the economy? Tell them it'll continue. On what principles? They must be clear, transparent, not by having someone get the right to share subsidies and build their own policy on it, someone else will get the right to share pensions and build their own policy, someone will play European integration, so they will build their own policy and raise the ramps, and society will fail in the meantime, because all of this together is more than wrong. We're looking for, Mr. Cvetkovic, concrete answers. How do you think you can solve the problem in the region that we have with all the neighbors, for no reason at all? We accuse people on the basis of fictitious evidence, traumatize the relationships we've invested a lot in to fix them, and then, after all, we withdraw those charges and deal with NGOs who criticize it. If we want to go to Europe, then we cannot go to Europe despite the interests of BiH, Croatia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Kosovo, but with their support. The regional policy you're talking about must be fully reformed and different. This leads us to a fundamental reason why we cannot support the reconstruction of your cabinet, because it is not a policy reconstruction but a reconstruction of a partner country that is rolling, first of all because the parties that have established it have become aware of the price they will pay in the next elections. All partners in the European coalition have been destroyed over three years by European policies in Serbia. They're not affirmed, you're affirming a styrofoam alternative to yourself. They give attention, they are viewed through their fingers, not what is the essence of Serbia's European transformation, facing their own mistakes, finding an alternative path, hiring and motivating the whole country. You, Mr. Cvetkovic, need to enter energy into this Parliament, energy into society, you and your government, and look at what it looks like today. Ministers sit and pray to God only that someone doesn't mention them. We'll do it, since it's not you. First of all, Mr. Kiric, what are you doing in that government? That's what I told you during our last encounter. The man who suggested you, along with a whole series of incredibly bad traits, has great talent to find capable people. What are you doing in this government? This government is directed against what your engagements and interests are. You, Mr. Markovic, with your biography, I don't think Mr. Cvetkovic would ever invite you to talk. If he read the biography, he'd give it up. Some of our other MPs will talk about Mr Stankovic. I didn't get to say anything to Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51669	MP Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51670	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the MPs of the ruling coalition to settle down a little bit. Today is a serious day, the government of the Republic of Serbia is elected which you have proposed, gentlemen. So, while this break was half an hour ago, I heard from one of our famous poets, otherwise an academic, and he wrote a verse. He says, "Say hello to Prime Minister Cvetkovic and tell him – no more distractions and regrets, it's past your term of duration." Another interesting thing, he says, "No government is worth anything if its people are in trouble." I think through these verses everything is said and there's nothing special to discuss. What it's really about. We expected the prime minister to resign, which makes sense. If he's leaving half the government that worked with the prime minister for three years and if that part of the government is leaving, the prime minister should have changed, too, it would be logical. A small part of the government stayed here, new people came. But it's all too late, gentlemen of the government in the future, because this is your last, fourth year, this is your last construction season, your fourth construction season. This is your last sowing in agriculture, the fourth sowing, starting in 15 days, and the construction season has begun. You announced last year that you were starting in March full force. Serbia will only scratch, build, work, hire. Come on, you've been practicing for three years, we expected him to leave in the fourth year. But now, at that moment when everything goes with full steam, you are entering a change of the Ministry Act, a change of the Government Act, in the reconstruction of the Government. And then you're going to go into budget rebalance and we're going to have a series of activities, so that's one cosmetic, one pure distraction of the people. When you had nothing to offer now, in March, April, and in two to three months will begin your annual vacation, you report with one story – here, new people come, the government is reconstructed, etc. The departments you've made and offered to the MPs, that's one such political chubby. I listened to the Rector of the University this morning that said it was inappropriate and many experts said, says – science and new technologies have been killed anyway, torn apart and are now joining in the education that has the most problems in Serbia. It's black for us, they say. I listened to other people who expected something good. For years now, I've been thinking for the last 10 years that the infrastructure was connected to this ministry of construction and urbanism, and it was giving some good results. Now we have two ministers, and mining and energy that for 20 years were one ministry, now we share them. The one who digs ore and loads into the wagon is one ministry, one part of the government, and the one who takes it further is the other ministry. How do you think that works in practice? Is that possible to work? Here, this morning in the morning's diary, I'm looking at the big action again, "Let's Clean Serbia", which is going to cost a lot. Is it going to get into that story now, clean up the Colubary? You know what she looks like out there. Let's clean up the ministries. Gentlemen, the exposé I've been listening to recently, the Prime Minister, the exposé, I think you pulled out that exhibit you read here three years ago. There was nothing from that exposé. Now we've done it again. We know everything, but then in the election campaign, the president of Serbia came out and said that in 2013, Serbia would be an EU member. Now you've moved five years, and you haven't explained to us in this exposé why it is now mentioned in 2018. Why did the government, the one who was successful, one prime minister, one team, move that line in five years? Where did 2018 come from, and it's real in 2012? The questionnaire was supposed to fill out who knows when. For the hundredth time I repeat, gentlemen for European Serbia, that you think a little bit, don't make a fuss. You promised it in the 2013 campaign, we're a member of the EU, and I repeat, it's very fast. The only good thing about this exposé, Mr. President, is what you've said -- these last months, you haven't mentioned -- years. So you're aware that the end came and came. Therefore, you have made nothing concrete about employment, projects, jobs, which are investors. The papers start tomorrow. Who's doing the work? On whose orders, who's funding, in what way? How many people are going to get a job? Every day 555, according to the Bureau of Statistics, people lose their jobs. Is that alarming for you or not? The situation in agriculture is a disaster. Setva's coming. What do you sow? Have you seen the price of seed corn, pesticides, herbicide, oil? How to survive? How do you run it? You didn't say a word about health care, which was a disaster. There's a new minister coming. What happened to the 18 million euros, the vaccines? What happened to those six million-euro fees? What about two burning hospitals, and we haven't heard how, new, reconstructed? Don't let me count on it. Gentlemen, you're on your way, at least you said in the exposé, to fight corruption and crime. Well done, it's good, it's great, and everyone who broke the law should answer and no one should protect anyone, but is the law broken by Nub Invest? Was there a violation of the Bundesbank donation law given to the National Bank? Why does that application stand in a drawer for six years? Is the law broken, Mr. Cvetkovic, at Satellite, in the privatisation of Sartida, the brewery, the sugar bar? What happened to that big affair in the army when it was said: Mile Dragic in custody? It's the biggest affair and it's all forgotten. I've been listening here, the biggest affairs are like Customs. It's all gone down. The only problems remain on the railway and in the roads. Let's take care of it, too. Come on, work it out. Believe me, whenever you call, we'll come. Is that just the opposition wrong? Are there mistakes in the ruling coalition as well? Are there any mistakes with you? Did I directly ask our esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, whom I greatly respect, Mr Djelic – did you, Mr Djelic, buy a hotel in Sokobanja through a Dutch company in the privatisation process? I never got an answer. What happened to the Zagreb Bank and who ordered the D.A. to write that we're not interested in it? Does it take so long to bankrupt the Beobank and so much money goes around in the bankruptcy mafia and have it at their disposal as anyone wants? Now I ask you, what about Satellite? Is it the government's success that from 43 million in damages down to 27 million? Who's going to answer for 27? Is it true that Mr Davinic filed criminal charges against some who ordered him to do so? I have these criminal charges and I have given them to your institutions, Mr. President. Is something going to be done on these issues? Whether Kristo, as his resolute minister in the part, was also for that airport minister and I launched proceedings against the airport's leadership at the time, due to fivem euros. Where are those applications? Is everything okay at the airport? Do you know that I launched an application, an initiative against JAT that was getting kerosene through the grocery store and given an advance at the grocery store and then barely put the advance back? Where'd you get that grocery store and whose grocery is it? It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. We'll be chasing the opposition. It's election year, let's step on it. We'll find them something, but we'll come back whenever you call us and get your papers. But now I ask you, when you come to me, to ask me a question, I will tell you honestly everything, but now I ask you, do you know who I was called to make a statement for? Do you know who the contractor is? It's a plague. Do you know who the subcontractor is? This company that's been making trouble, which is why Jocic was arrested, at Chummet's. Was that his firm? How did some paperwork go missing, and there were some problems? How did Chume get back in the story? Who put Chummet back in? Now, Chume's your dad. Now I ask you nicely, gentlemen, here in public – what are you doing with Chummet again? What's the Privatization Versus doing buying a toll company? I warned the Privatisation Agency that behind the privatisation of this company stands the plague. They said it was not true. Well, it's true, go and check it out. They can hear it again in the game, and you and your partners are the Chumeta partners. That's why there are a number of questions you need to answer. You've replaced the Minister of Agriculture, and I think he worked most of you. The man unloaded the sacks, I personally watched, and the concentrate, and the fertilizer. Isn't that right, Mr. Petrovich? He was working. I didn't find him anything there, that he messed up, but I expect you, and I wish you good luck, to be better than Mr. Dragin, because agriculture is the engine of this country. You got in the wheel. I expect you to make a result. You haven't been to that game, I can't put any remarks on you, but Serbia expects you to do it right away, the set begins, some solutions. I hope we can make it. Now I'm asking you something else, we're talking about the EU, and now you're Turkey's main partner, you were in Turkey the other day, what's actually going on here? And I was in Turkey as a minister, and when I came back from Turkey, one of your colleagues debated the government, and Turkey can't get into such a job for any more reason because people offered to work without a tender, without anything, etc. And we accepted it and rejected it. Where does that story come back from, and some other stories are forgotten? What has actually changed in Serbia's policy, who is our partner and where are some companies now appearing in the privatisation of JAT and elsewhere, etc.? Gentlemen from the government of the future, you have strikes in all key segments of Serbia, either announced or started. Serbia starves in the 21st century. You may not know that. Mr. President, get down to Serbian villages, look at those tormented faces of Serbia, destroyed, without hope, without faith, without pay, without anything that could not pay for electricity. How are they going to pay now and how are we going to get these new purchases from which fund? How's it going? Don't blame the opposition for that. The gatherings are going full steam. Look at how much life supplies have cost. Until this gathering 34%, gentlemen, now we'll see how much it pushes away. What did you do in Kosovo specifically? You mention Kosovo. Mr. Secretary stayed the same. What is the result of work in Kosovo? Yes, it is the result, you have brought a performer from Kosovo who works here, your partner, who paid for it, which I responsibly claim here that he has made his way to the Sokolic monastery, received the money, signed the supervisory authorities, and didn't even put a shovel of material. When we controlled him, we pulled him in and said we'd call the M.O.P., now he's gone and he's done it after a few years. How many missed jobs, Mr. Minister? How many houses were built that were charged and were ever built. We don't have that report anywhere. Why is Mr. Ugljanin sitting in government? The carbon is my friend, I appreciate it and respect it, but it's a shame for you that a man who's experienced, by me, a politician and a correct man, sits without any responsibility and, for example, I'm looking at this young man, I don't even know his name, he'll have five or six resistors. I don't think he can count what he's in charge of in five minutes. Well, why couldn't Mr. Ugljanin get a portfolio, be a minister if he was in that government? You've cut down, cut down, and left a man on the llora, to take a picture here in the government, to God's sake in the government, but what's he doing in the government? Why didn't you give him one? You could have done it, and you should have done it if you wanted to do it seriously. Therefore, the objectives of the government that have been set here are the goals of the last time. Here, I wrote them down, completely identical. And every prime minister who comes will read the same story, but what is the result of that work? What are the results? No results. I'm glad if a minister comes out and makes a score, believe me. That's what I want from your heart. I was happy to hear Mr. Sutanovec, who said he made some result both financially and this, and I congratulate you if that's the case, but give at least half of the government a result. I appreciate if Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic finishes the bridge, if he finishes the roads... (President: Thank you, time. Make the end of it. Finish your sentence, please. )......................................................................................................... I'll be happy because it'll be easier for the next government. The election is inevitable and you have to understand and accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51671	The word has an MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51672	Dear People's MPs, chairing the assembly, respected ministers and candidates, have been occupied for a month by Serbia on a topic of government reconstruction. Today we bring this topic to an end, the government will be reconstructed, and we will realize that these months have been lost. However, it is not the biggest problem, in those months, the problem has been losing three years since the government entered the scene or nearly three years since 7 July 2008. In fact, this reconstruction would not have occurred if it hadn't preceded an internal incident in the government, when one of the ministers, especially the great destructive forces, tried to climb up to the pedestal of the President of the Republic and reconstructed the government with it, preparing for the next elections, it obviously shed a glass of this kind of activity with you. Serbia, which is very poor today in every respect, has been forced to follow the events, because they have been presented to the media, but as we can see, these events have passed through a very thin result, first of all, the exposure of the Prime Minister and the content that tells us that things will happen as well as so far, as these previous two and a half to three years. The government of Serbia that is reconstructed has several major problems. Namely, there is an initial problem, a problem of its origin, because the government was created by a political engineering involving the president of the Republic, several ambassadors of the Western countries and several tycoons. Such a government was built on largely surprised electoral bodies that acted differently and voted differently during the elections. She got the title "Pro-European government" and started working in that spirit. Another problem is that the government has put all its cards on a single topic, which is European integration. It has declared the slogan "Europe or the EU has no alternative" and this fact has greatly affected that all sectors and areas of government's activities are subject to an unusually large influence of the foreign factor, both the EU and individual Member States, which have conducted their interests there and the United States. This affected a strong government independence and one fact that it acts as a satellite government and that the main strategic and concrete moves are in line with incentives and initiatives. The third problem of the government is that it has very often given up its powers and given them to the President of the Republic, and he himself was very happy to take over the powers of the Government, of course, by violating the Constitution of Serbia, and on the one hand, it has been violated, especially in the field of foreign policy and European integration, and some other initiatives in the area of economic policy, and in an ad hoc way, it has done its job, where it was not really known who is responsible for any work being done or who is responsible for the wrong results or bad results that have been achieved in this way. These are some three problems that actually make this government impossible to reconstruct. The only way to change was to call a new election. You came forward before the time of the government's reconstruction, but not because you analyzed your results, your successes, or, rather, failures, but because you were forced by that incident I was talking about at the beginning. Now let me just take a few short lines, because it's not possible to do this extensively because of a lack of time, look at the government's results in this time and try to connect these results to what we heard this morning in the speech of the Prime Minister. First of all, when it comes to European integration, it is, therefore, written on the flag of the Government in large letters, and it is understood that it is the first thing to talk about. First of all, I'm going to say what's been obtained by European integration so far, what are, I say, positive results, if they're positive. Therefore, ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has begun. Last summer, practically, the minister himself gave the green light and it started. A visa liberalisation was carried out, though, with a particular victim, if I may say so. It has not spread to all Serbian citizens, to all those who have Serbia's passport, who are Serbian citizens. There's been some discrimination against people living on KIM, but come on, here's 90% or maybe more people, it's been given the opportunity to take out a biometric passport. Then, a European Commission questionnaire was received, one step in gaining candidacy. What did Serbia really pay for what it got, what I mentioned? Serbia has made previous moves before these gains were achieved, Serbia has done its utmost to win the EU in some way, in order to at least some elements for its media political campaign towards European integration and to achieve it. First, Serbia recognised EULEX as a mission stemming from an internationally unrecognizable document, from the Ahtisaari plan, and which did not even receive any legal imprimature of the UN, as it is widely known. Serbia has signed a protocol on police co-operation at the border of Serbia and Kosovo, and in fact, in a very obvious way has adopted a new custom, which is that the border becomes a border in an international and legal sense. Finally, Serbia received a UN General Assembly resolution on September 9th, denying talks on Kosovo's status. So, very declarative of that resolution, she gave up, taking into account the fact that there was some previous motion for a resolution, that it was withdrawn and a new resolution was created that speaks, in fact, of dialogue and of the future in Europe, Serbia and Kosovo. These are the things that have been done and where this minus is obviously large. Now, therefore, we are able to observe this dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, which the Prime Minister says in his speech is a conversation with the Interim Authorities of KIM, which is only a story for this assembly and for this public. You can ask who you want from Brussels or Washington, and finally, Thomas Cantrimen clearly defined it the first day of the conversation, that it was a discussion of the president of the two states. If we accept that, then it's clear what it's about. In short, this European path that has achieved relatively little is actually paid by territory. He was paid by giving up Kosovo, paid by recognising Kosovo's actual independence, and by the very active moves the government has led in that direction. What is not said in the exposé, and what was actually one policy that replaced this policy of European integration, is the policy of Euro-Atlantic integration. That's what the government was doing very actively. These values I speak of so bitterly, European values represent Euro-Atlantic values, and the government has very closely promoted them during its term of office. What Serbia has been doing very actively and, I would say, successfully are these Euro-Atlantic integrations and is bringing NATO closer. This was not publicly exposed, as this story about the EU, because the EU was the mark of Serbia. NATO understands that it was not an important story, because the people do not accept NATO. It's standard for 70% of the population to argue against it. But it is a successful story that needs to suppress this joy of European integration, which is constantly adolescence for us as some bright future. We need to keep that in mind, and that is one result that we can consider quite defeative, and the worst thing is being run by a secretive policy about which the public does not have much information. Let's just wake up with some new information that we learn from the other arm and the running hand, or sometimes when the ministry or the government makes a move or signs a contract. Please, if it is about European integration and if it is about this candidacy which is now the most important thing for this country, which is, in fact, the idea of joining the EU and being replaced, joining the EU and joining it on a far stick, on a long stick, and you know it very well. The whole propaganda is focused on candidacy. The Prime Minister speaks of it as a goal that will be achieved by the end of the year. Namely, take his exposés from July 7th 2008 and you will see that the candidacy was scheduled for early 2009. However, he moved it a little over the campaign led by the President of the Republic, who said that the candidacy was until the end of 2008, this one moved a little bit for 2009, and we don't even know where we are today. We still have the ultimate and great uncertainty about the candidacy itself. Secondly, talks with Pristina are a new large reservoir of conditions and EU blackmail. That's what we've been very exposed to. If our candidacy is an ultimate goal, I am quite sure that this delegation or the negotiating team, although it is not about negotiations, will, of course, be forced politically to accept everything that is being given to it in order to achieve that candidacy. So she's also extremely foggy and vague. It is only possible if Serbia accepts all that is imposed on it as some sort of solution. When it comes to the economy, as a matter of great importance and which we have discussed several times, but not like this, the last time we talked seriously about Serbia's economic situation and the prospects when the debate on the government's non-trust initiative was held, on 17 December 2008, the economic downturn of this government in these two and a half or three years justifies the global economic and financial crisis. I would remind you that in December 2008, in this assembly, the Prime Minister, in his speech and in his final speech, still operated on 3% of the growth of the social product for 2009, with single-digit inflation, with a reduction in unemployment in certain citizenship. At the time, we didn't just talk about Kosovo, I'll remind you, but also about Serbia's economic future. Today, after two and a half years, that story repeats itself again and we have the result we have. During the government's term of office, for nearly three years, Serbia has not emerged from a negative rate of economic growth, it has been constantly down. Serbia then had a huge growth in unemployment, so today it stands at around 26%. And in absolute and relative indicators, it's the biggest unemployment in Europe. The biggest share of that growth was the last two years. Serbia has a large budget deficit and only the IMF limits it by its own measures. Serbia's public debt is enormous, above all, if measured against its social product, which, as we know, is still falling, and which will never reach that level of positive growth that will be able to service this public debt well. Serbia is in a large number of indicators in the economic collapse, and we don't have to operate with numbers, people see it well based on their wallets, their ability to buy basic life supplies, etc. The social consequences of this economic crisis are terrible. There is growing poverty, there is imperceptibility and the hopelessness of the Serbian population. Serbia is experiencing a social anomaly, a complete disintegration of all indicators of social life. Serbia is experiencing a terrible moral crisis, a youth-specific failure, all of which is trying to compensate in one magical way, by promising EU accession. What are the odds, we can see from previous dynamics. If previous dynamics are relevant for the future, we will not be candidates, and we will not be members of the EU for a very long period. These are indicators that clearly state that this government cannot be drawn by the economic crisis in the world, but must justify before this population its failures, it is now reconstructing itself, but that is not how it will come out of the crisis. I will talk briefly about institutions, and this is about a group of institutions, which are very important for Serbia's progress, for its normal functioning and for the stabilisation of the entire system. It's the judiciary. The judiciary is actually a figure of the institutional crisis of Serbia. The justice system is in collapse and it's not an inherited thing from the past. It is a new moment that was systematically established in Serbia in 2009 and 2010. That's a lot to talk about. I don't want to talk about it much anymore. I just want to tell you that this package that was adopted at the end of last year, with the help of EU experts and experts from the Venice Commission, is clearly not a result. The package calls into question the principle of banning the retroactivity of law enforcement. He does not give, at the very least, an exit for people who are damaged by the work of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, when they have not accepted 830 applications by judges and 200 by prosecutors. Namely, these objections, which are now due to replace constitutional appeals, to be carried out, take a very long time and very close work. The reform of the judiciary is one of the 10 topics set out in Serbia's EU priorities. We're getting our eyes caressed today about how by June it'll be over. Can you think of so many objections with the possibility of using an artist, with explanations, with new objections, is that even possible? But you've been involved in both the European Commission and the Venice Commission, so you probably have a way to get in front of them now. Finally, what is the government's offer, given this catastrophic state of society? She's reconstructing. Right? They enter each other, faith enters the diaspora, human rights enter the administration, energy enters the infrastructure, etc. There's a simulation going on, and with that simulation, there's one human engineering going on. We don't really have any of that. The only confession I can give you is on one thing you've done here, which is the ministry led by Minister Dulic. He has so far been in charge of Serbia's surface, so he was minister of spatial planning. He was in charge of Serbia's height, he was the Minister of Ecology, environmental protection, now it's a ministry completed by the Serbian depth ministry, it's mining. All that work, in all three dimensions of space, he's going to be doing with his preparation of an orthopedic surgeon. At the very least, this whole government somehow seems like orthopedic surgery to me. It has one very important task, to constantly intervene on Serbia's spine. That's what's happening today. The constant intervention on Serbia's spine makes Serbia constantly bent and bent. It seems to be the biggest effect of the government that has ever been made. Serbia goes in the light of the future of a bent spine, an irregular walk. If that is the solution, then let it be your allal, but I am sure that Serbia will return to its strength, to its pride and dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51673	I give my word to MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we need to discuss the government, whose members, to assist the opposition, speak a lot of things about us from the SNS. I know you regret the words you've spoken, as I often and sincerely regret something I once said or did. You must regret it because you have offended the citizens of Serbia, who on 5 February, because they are dissatisfied with the work of this government, because they live very badly, because they do not see the future and perspective, have come to Belgrade, shown you their dignity and will come again in April, if there are none among you who have reason. I'm sure you regret that you insulted them by seemingly insulting the members of the SNS alone or perhaps just us who run this party. I suppose you regret very much that the chairman of the executive board of the DS, after the King's earthquake, said that the earthquake came because we had a rally in the King before. He even made a mistake, the rally was in Krusevec, but Mr. Djurisic knows Serbia's geography very well. Turns out we brought an earthquake to the King, and after the earthquake, we went to help the citizens of the Kings with our money, out of our pockets, to have at least 150 families living in fixed and 600 of them living in completely new homes. I assume you know that Boris Tadic was only in Japan hours before the catastrophic earthquake. Has it occurred to anyone to link it to Boris Tadic's visit? When you insult other people, when you speak ill of other people, just remember that life brings all sorts of situations. You'll regret it because you're saying that SNS doesn't have any program, because this is Mr. Cvetkovic's exposure to your program. This is what you would call a recovery programme for Serbia, this repeated story of three years ago, with the same goals and only one additional, to expand the circle of people to whom social assistance will be provided. This is the programme of your government, as President Cvetkovic called, the list of ZES – SPS, PUPS, JS and the list of minority parties and, I did not mention, of course, Jay 17 plus participates in it. This program was beautifully written three years ago. Why don't you tell us – are we obliged to hear about the same goals that the Government wants to achieve every year, at the end of each term? Look into your eyes, what you promised the people when this government was elected. Three hundred thousand cars in Kragujevac by the end of last year, an EU membership bid a year and a half ago, and we are now waiting for the elections, until Serbia gets the candidacy and you attribute it to yourself. For God's sake, you deserve that Serbia will one day be a candidate for EU membership. How did you deserve to win Serbia's candidacy for these three years? Justice reform. If I were a minister of justice and this minister of justice in shadow and construction, I wouldn't accept entering this government. Madam Justice Minister, aren't you ashamed, after so much reproach on the EU, that you have destroyed the judiciary, that you have acted as a "beach of God" in the judiciary, you would again be a minister of justice, to convince us that a reformed judiciary, you, which should be responsible for 500 million dinars so far paid to judges who have not been elected and prosecutors. By government decision, 500 million dinars. We broke the law by the government's decision. You can make it all up to the government. Can such a decision be made in government? He can't. It's past the law. Change the law. Make a lex specialis. Judges who have not been elected, until status is resolved, receive money. I'd understand. No one in Serbia has money. You said a few days ago that there was nothing left for workers because you wouldn't pay those who didn't work, and you pay judges and prosecutors who didn't work, that one day you wouldn't bring disputes to the international court, like for this new minister, there were three excavators, one of them was this new one, who forged the resignation and withdrawal of two MPs, and now we're paying for the court's ruling in Strasbourg huge money. These are all your mistakes, ladies and gentlemen ministers. I'm looking into your eyes. I don't know who I'd say worse about doing a job. Otherwise, the opposition should not speak ill of candidates for members of the government, it should speak ill of members of the government. But you're actually members of the government a long time ago. Mrs. Kalanovic, you said you were a moral woman, and when this Cvetkovic shot Mladjan Dinkic from the government, that you were coming out of the government. What happened to your leaving the government, or what happened to your morale? Which category prevailed, I'd really like to know. Mr. Jeremiah, who are you, the Wolf of Jeremiah? The one who writes motions for resolutions, or the one who defends the proposed resolutions afterwards? What foreign policy are you running? He who comes out of you as a man, or one who is commanded and commanded after you? What are you doing here? What program are you doing here? (SRS emissaries are getting out of place. I'd like to ask you to calm this pic-ap party down a little bit. Shall we move on? Gentlemen ministers from Sandzak or the Raska area, what did you do in Sandzak? What did you do? They made a mess and someone else has to deal with it. Who are they against? Against you, gentlemen of the Ministers, Sulejman Ugljanin and Rasim Ljajic, you are complained about by the people. You've allowed politics to be dealt with by a religious leader. When was that a good policy when it was dealt with by a religious leader? You are God's politicians that your families have money, that your parties are rich, that you have expensive cars and security, that no one can kill you when you go somewhere, that you form parties throughout Serbia. Mr. Ugljanin announced a strategic partnership with a Turkish air carrier. Is that true? Is there a partnership here? No, it's just stories. Every time from Turkey, coming here has to be justified by some story. Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. What more do you play with that ministry? Which of you cares about having the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, except that large funds are being poured out there that have no control over. And this new minister who knows everything. How did you make a contract for metal systems, Mr. New Minister, what do you know? You made a contract that shows you don't know anything about the economy. Made a contract with a company that didn't own the capital. The workers of the happy state took over the metal systems, the Agency for Business Registers refused the contract and said – this was done by someone illiterate. You're going to run a few ministries? Why don't you look in the mirror? What did you deserve? What knowledge is behind you? What results in these three years are behind you, except these promises that we'll get better? Well, that was three years ago, both on social measures and on candidacy, on the fight against bribery, corruption and crime. Wasn't the Chief of Staff of the Police shot because he had something to do with the drug mob? Is it possible there's a police minister whose chief of staff has something to do with the drug mob? What's his punishment? To go to Greece, to spend most of the summer? What's this about? What did you accept? I know what Mr. Cvetkovic is: as director of the Privatisation Agency, there are so many sins, wherever they call him, he must go. And if he didn't know he went there, he had to leave. And what about the rest of you? Look at the new faces in the government. Who agreed to be? Only who partyed or who doesn't know what's gonna end up home. Otherwise, a serious man, who wants to deal seriously with politics, which should help Serbia, does not enter this government. The government can drop in a month. What are you going in with no responsibility for that? Why don't you wait for a better time? Why don't you wait four-year term? Who are you replacing there? Bad people. You have a bad image right now. You come from the same parties people left, driven away. Mr. Cvetkovic, you accused Mladjan Dinkic of being the new 200,000 unemployed because of his policy. That party is in your government now. Those were the harshest words of one Prime Minister addressed to the vice president I have heard in my life, and I have heard harsh words and spoken many harsh words. You were then a persuasive, terrible, determined Prime Minister. Cap, shut down, shut down the Prime Minister. Because the Prime Minister isn't actually in this room, and you know it very well. When he tells you to be brave, you're brave. That's what Mladjan Dinkic told me publicly, in all the media. When he commands you, when he presses the button, you get the voltage, when he turns off the button, you are turned off the voltage. The centre of power of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in the cabinet of the President of the Republic. That's where the warrants come from, that's where the measurements are checked, that's where it's going to go to the media, so please, Mr. Markovic, don't get into that circuit. Because there are three censors in that cabinet who make up names in the media, articles. No one here will listen to you, no one will bother you. You'll be one figure. Mr. Markovic, it's a shame that you're a figure in culture, in other ways you can provide a lot. In a way you can't be a minister. What's waiting for us now with you? Wait for October, for the commission to give a positive position? Great. They'll give it to all of Serbia. If all your hopes are meant to be attributed to the candidate status, you are very wrong. It will be attributed to all of Serbia and all parties that must therefore give up some of their goals and interests. Joining the EU is a high interest, a necessity for Serbia. But Serbia must enter the EU vertically, not with the government, which one depends on the mandate. Serbia must join the EU, not promise citizens that it will join the EU. We've suffered your promises for ten years. Some of you have been in power for ten years, and now I'm looking you in the eye. Many nations in the world have been raised up against those who have been in power for more than 10 years. Don't forget, the whole world said that people long for democracy and that they can't watch the same authority for more than 10 years, and you've been longer than 10 years. Some of you have been in power since they were born, because their dad was in power, so he told his son to continue. Right? Yes, it is. The fight against crime, if you bring it down to fighting the opposition, you will make a terrible mistake. I also resent the opposition for not reacting uniquely when you fall upon us. Of course, I don't need anyone's support, but there are people here who need support and they're gonna support SNS to have always. If you make the opposition horns in a bag, you'll lose the other part of the opposition, because the principle of fighting crime is simple with you -- whoever we want -- he goes to jail, whoever we want, we let him out of prison, whoever we want, he doesn't even have to be in custody, whoever we want, he goes to The Hague, whoever we want, we bring him back from The Hague. It's your fight. Do what you want. Everything you do to others may one day be done to you. You were so strong in 2001, you thought nothing in Serbia would change anymore, or maybe you thought you'd be with the Socialists in power. When you and the Socialists made a government for me, it was a sign that you would fall out of power, because the next one was us. Too bad my associates didn't want us to be next. Fortunately, the idea doesn't kill so easily. This is the idea of a new, modern, advanced Serbia, where there is room for both of us and for each other to make everyone in Serbia better. This is Serbia in which the government will not pursue the opposition, nor will the opposition have to prove its heroism by being against the authorities. This is Serbia in which one day both the government and the opposition will vote some law together without anyone telling the other that he is a traitor. That's Serbia to fight for. This is Serbia that will line up in front of the troubles. That's Serbia to fight for. Do not build Serbia for which every citizen wants to fight, because many are poor compared to few rich and many dissatisfied with the few. You'll see, that time is coming. We talked about it last week. You're not listening, you're not responding to our calls. Okay, before 16 April or 18 April, we will hold several rallys in Serbia to prepare you for what will happen that day in Belgrade. We have given you our hand, so that you may reflect on it, we have made a concession that no one would ever do to you when it is stronger than you. We will go to the elections after the European Commission's report. Is that a little bit? Well, it's gone. Even for what I have said here many citizens say – what are you doing, let us finish this job, on whose behalf do you allow these to lead us to November? I mean, in the name of democracy, I mean on behalf of human freedoms, in the name of a clean, untapped Belgrade. When you take power, there is nothing left of Belgrade, and I would like, when we win, to make Belgrade even nicer, even better, so that when you beat us, to make it a little more beautiful, not to argue over who will bring Belgrade down more than who will build it. Look what your personnel combinations mean. Is there one of you who wants to do his job in his profession except for a few? You take it, people, jobs you're not up to. Today I read in the paper that the spread from the Sabbath milkmaker is going to America. That's great, except the man in the Paws has oiled us all a long time ago. He deals with construction, elects judges and prosecutors. Where did you throw him in the farm? They'll mix fields and meadows, and the peasants won't be able to find out where what's what, what's whose. What are you playing with that for? You play with agriculture, you play with energy. I'm sorry, Mr. Mrkonjic, you don't have the energy for these two so important ministries or someone will take over, who told you, and we'll prescribe it to you, and someone of our own will do it, and when someone does, as they say, you'll have a new Kolubara. What, no one in Serbia knew what thefts were like in Colubara? You all knew, you covered for each other. And day and day you won't come out with accurate data. That's what's waiting for you. You'll get out safely. If not you, a new government will come out, one who doesn't think his life depends on whether crime will be won or not. I don't know why they're scaring you that changing your power is a head loss. There's nothing like changing power. You yourself said that when you were fighting against the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, so you said – only a changing power is democratic power. Look at your words today, see how small political parties, who have one minister or have none in the government of Serbia, and who are harassing public enterprises, as they express themselves about SNS, about citizens who support us, with no respect, with how much contempt and cynicism talk about the strongest political party. It'll, like, take a long time. Tinja. The water in the pot is boiling, the lid is still holding it. To tell you the truth, there are times when it's all shooting and no one can hold on to it anymore. Make sure you stop it, please. I'm preventing it. I think I'm teaching you how people should behave in opposition. I don't wish I'd learned from you how to act when I'm in power. I almost couldn't teach either of you how to behave like a man in power. You're all full of egoism, you're all full of self-intoxication, you're all very smart, you're very brave and you're strong, you can all arrest, you can beat up, you can do anything, you just can't do it to make Serbia better. I'm sorry, I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51675	Mrs. Hope Kolundji, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51676	Your Honor, Madam President, I would like to direct you to article 107. The Rules of Procedure, which obliges you, as chairman, to make a warning to every people's MP who is abusively expressed in this assembly and thereby offends the dignity of this institution, and to prevent him from doing so in the future. We have heard inadmissible insulting expressions here addressed to members of the government and others. I understand when someone has no arguments and when someone doesn't have any program and then tries to disqualify himself with personal disqualification to create some kind of political programme, but it's inadmissible in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and it's inadmissible at the moment when we are discussing the reconstruction of the government and we are choosing new members of the government. So it is inadmissible that someone who has shown that there is nothing in this country and no one in this country who is not willing to offend, someone who is now trying to get credit for European integration, really still has much to learn and to pass, but what cannot be allowed to do is to insult anyone here. If he doesn't know what a fundamental objection is to this government, then let him keep his mouth shut. If he doesn't have a program, then let him keep quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51677	Mrs. Kolundzija, your findings are in place, but this is the usual way of addressing Mr. Nikolic, who has become almost typical and simply cannot react to him. Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51678	Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, I would ask you not to comment on who I am or what I am anymore. I never said a word about you. Hold on a minute, when I beg you, or there's some internal need in you to say ugly words about me, to perhaps hide the sympathy you feel for me. One thing you did wrong, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Mrs. Kolundjia accused me of burning down the embassy. Listen, Mrs. Kolundjia, there's a lot of things you can tell me here, don't put me under such a heavy charge, and I haven't gone to the information conversation yet, I haven't been arrested, I'm not in custody, I'm not convicted. Please, you're all talking about me, you're right, I'm not angry, and I'm not replicating, but to tell me that I burned the embassy, do you know what an insult it is? Believe me, I couldn't think of a word to say to you right now without you being so offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51679	The word has an MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51680	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is no doubt that an organisational and personal reconstruction of the government will be carried out today. What the SRS expected was to implement a policy reconstruction. Personal changes in government, reducing the number of ministries, the schedules of individual officials from the current government to some future government, will not essentially contribute to Serbia and its citizens being better and Serbia being a state of little more dignity than it is now. If you have carefully read Mr Cvetkovic's exposés, which is presented to the MPs today, you will see that in 99% of its provisions, it is more or less consistent with the July 2008 exposé and that there is no fundamental difference between the government's 2008 programme and this 2011 programme. Of course, right now, like my other colleagues, I could talk ad hominem, talk about individuals, talk about candidates for ministers, current ministers, read their biographies and look for some dark spots in those biographies, but we don't think that's the essence of this debate. We will try in principle to face opinions with Mr Mirko Cvetkovic on some of the most important policy issues of the current and future government of the Republic of Serbia. Let's get in line. The first priority is full commitment as soon as Serbia enters the EU. First question, Mr. Cvetkovic – will someone bear responsibility, from you from the so-called The European coalition, because of the false promises you made to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia since 5 October 2000 and later? On October 5, 2000, you said, not you personally, but a political establishment from your party -- only when Slobodan Milosevic falls, enters the Republic of Serbia and Serbia by 2004 at the latest will be an EU member. When Mr Boris Tadic was first elected president of the Republic of Serbia in 2004, you said - we are entering the EU in 2007. In January 2008, Mr Boris Tadic said we are entering the EU in 2012. The latest projection is that we are supposed to join the EU in 2020. I'll tell you on behalf of the SRS we'll never get in. To join the EU is not enough just for you to want to be an EU member, it is necessary that the EU wants the Republic of Serbia to be its member. Does the EU want the Republic of Serbia as its full member? He doesn't want to. If most EU member states wanted not to recognise KIM independence, the EU would not every day invent new reasons why it does not let Serbia into its political and economic courtyard. The way we are, no one, a country with a weak economy, with a bad infrastructure, with a weak government, with a government that doesn't even know what its policy is, like we don't need the EU or the Russian Federation, we don't need anyone. Instead of proposing a personal reconstruction of the government, you were obliged to propose a fundamental reconstruction of state policy. From the EU, Mr. Cvetkovic, there's nothing. It's not a real policy, it's not a policy that's realistic. You must turn to those who want to work with Serbia on an equal footing, with the Russian Federation, with China, with the countries of South America, with the Arab world. How do you treat this Arab world? By order of the United States, this government you run, Mr Cvetkovic, has suspended the application of all trade agreements, especially in the area of military co-operation, with Libya. Who gave you the right to do something like that? I must remind you that in 1992, Gaddafi advised Ali Izetbegovic not to choose the wrong allies, that his allies are neither Croats nor Americans, but that he should turn to co-operation with Serbs if he wants peace to be preserved in BiH. I must remind you, Mr Cvetkovic, that this same Gaddafi refused to recognise KIM's independence, although some of your great friends from the United States and the EU were eager to recognise the independence of the southern Serbian province. What happens if Gaddafi stays in power and doesn't go after the Americans to take him down? How are you going to cooperate with that same man and the state he's leading tomorrow? What did Gaddafi do to the Republic of Serbia, so that you, among the first in Europe, suspend the application of trade agreements with Libya? How come you and the Americans have a problem with Gaddafi, and these same Americans don't mind Hashim Thaci at Kim? As far as I know, Gaddafi wasn't accused of trading in human organs, Hashim Thaci did, and there's evidence for that. But the Americans, Hashim Thaci, don't mind, he's their political partner, they don't mind Gaddafi. How come they don't mind the regime in Saudi Arabia, cutting off its citizens' extremities, pulling out their eyes, tongue, etc. Because he's applying sanctions under Sharia law? Furthermore, the preservation of KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Cvetkovic, if you are committed to the preservation of KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, it is possible that the official platform of this country is in the so-called so-called state. Negotiations with the Shiptars status neutrality? Does this mean that your government does not believe that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia? How can a country platform, which allegedly recognises KIM as its component, be the status neutrality of that part? How do you think you can convince the Shiptars, the Americans, the Germans, the French, the English, all those who have recognised KIM independence, that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, if our official policy is status neutrality? Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia recognise the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and recognise Resolution 1244 that guarantees us sovereignty and territorial integrity at KIM? If you are committed to the preservation of KIM in the part of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic, how can negotiations with the Shiptars be conducted by the political director of the Foreign Ministry? Take the Ministry Act, read the responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You will see that his primary task is to maintain relations with other states. Why not negotiate with the Shiptars Minister Milan Markovic, the minister of state administration and local self-government, because according to Resolution 1244, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the only thing that KIM can get is broad autonomy in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. However, by choosing a negotiator in the image of Mr Stefanovic, political director of the foreign ministry, you have denied that KIM is not an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. You can say 100 times a day that you'll never admit to KIM's independence, but you've already done it just seems like no one's told you. The development of Serbia's economy and the improvement of its citizens' living standards. This will be said by a little more of my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group who understand much more than I do on economic and financial issues. But there shouldn't be some great expert, so see to what extent your 2008 exposure has been achieved. Serbia today is one of the poorest countries in Europe, the social situation is catastrophic, and there is absolutely no single measure from this exhibition that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will take to stop this economic agony, except that you have announced several times that you want to join the EU. The development of a socially responsible state and solidarity society, you promised in 2008. The Republic of Serbia has never been more socially polarised than it is now. From the extremely rich, or, as the President of the Republic says, the unseemly rich, who are very few, to those the poorest, which are the most in Serbia, there is a huge gap. What do you mean, you're taking over? Have you suggested one measure for people who, as you say, are unkindly wealthy, who should probably bear the burden of the economic crisis? Do you want a so-called so-called. tycoons to give up at least one part of their wealth for the greater good? You can't see that from your exposé. A uncompromising fight against crime and corruption, Mr. Cvetkovic. The head of the SRS parliamentary group in the National Assembly, Mr Dragan Todorovic, has been asking the government, the Privatisation Agency, the competent ministries related to the biggest corruption affairs, not only in the Republic of Serbia but in Europe, Luka Belgrade, the privatisation of "News", "Mobi 63". To this day we have received no answer to any question. What is this fight against crime and corruption? Why don't you get a grip on those who are bearers of crime and corruption. It is easy to arrest a doctor who receives 500 euros to perform some surgical intervention. Arrest those who have put millions of euros in their pocket by robbing citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which this and the future government of the Republic of Serbia will obviously be unable to do anything. Full co-operation with The Hague tribunal, it's a mantra, and you who are now sitting in the government and those who would like to replace you. Both would only arrest Ratko Mladic. I want to remind you, Mr. Cvetkovic, of one fact. As far as we know, the UN tribunal's indictees are Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic. As far as I know, she is not charged with war crimes or General Ratko Mladic's husband, Boss, or his son Darko. The question arises – why is the state of Serbia conducting torture over members of the families of those indicted before The Hague tribunal, what are they to blame for? What are these measures of retribution to those whose close family members, fathers, wives on the UN tribunal's warrants? Well, that's what the German occupiers were doing, when they can't get to who they're looking for, then they get revenge on women and children. This is what the state of Serbia is doing today and it's scandalous. I want to remind you, Mr. Cvetkovic, of a fact that you know very well. My question is -- why don't you put an end to all the warrants, the red ones, the blue ones, I don't know what, for the people who are accused of war crimes against the Serb people? Tell me, which one of your European friends has handed over any man for whom there is established evidence that he was killing Serbs, that he was banishing, that he was raping, that he was robbing? How can your UK friends let Ejup Ganic go free? There are thousands of evidence that he ordered the massacre of JNA soldiers on Voluntary Street. How is it possible to release these days from the detention of a man who, as head of territorial defence in Sarajevo, I mean this Ali's Serb, John the Wild, sold arms to the Green Berets and to avoid the conviction of a military court, become a soldier, or officer, later and general of the BiH Army? Well, how come no one was delivered to you? You've delivered everything, only children haven't started delivering, only no one has figured out, if we can't deliver Ratko Mladic, let's deliver his wife, let's deliver his son, let's deliver to the neighbor, let's deliver anyone. Well, I guess that co-operation on war crimes and war crimes trials should be two-way. With what authority, who authorized you? Who were you asking to let go of a man who committed war crimes in Vukovar in 1991, I mean this Tihomir Purda? He was admitted a few days ago in an official audience by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Jadranka Kosor, a woman living in an apartment that belonged to a Serbian family by 1990. Is that your fight against war crimes? Turns out war criminals are only on the Serbian side. Are you trying to write a politically falsified history of the fall of the former Yugoslavia, that it's just us, that only Serbia is responsible for war crimes, that no one else is responsible, no Americans, no Germany, no Vatican, no NATO, no Tudjman, no Kucan, no Ali Izetbegovic, no Hashim Thaci, no one? Slobodan Milosevic, Vojislav Seselj, Ratko Mladic, his wife, his son, brother, grandson, who knows who. So when are you going to break up with Serbia's humiliation policy? What you're doing is humiliating Serbia. You humiliate Serbia by one Swissman has the courage to say what the RS government does not have the courage to say. He said -- there's evidence against Hashim Thaci, the first reaction of this government was -- for us, Hashim Thaci is legitimate until proven guilty. Well, let's prove he's guilty. In the list of the authorities of the State or the judicial authorities to prosecute Hashim Thaci, Mr Cvetkovic, your ministers listed all possible judicial authorities of this world, they left out only one category, which is the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Republic of Serbia consider KIM an integral part of it? If he believes, and since trafficking in human organs took place alongside Albania and KIM, why does Serbian judicial authorities not engage in an investigation against Hashim Thaci and against those quoted in the report by Dick Marty as trading human organs in Albania and in KIM? Who are you expecting evidence from, who's going to collect that evidence to you, the Americans, NATO? Those quoted in the report as being the allies of Hashim Thaci in 1999 at the time of the bombing of the SRJ. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic asked you, and I ask you, what is the position of this government towards NATO? He would like Serbia to enter the NATO Pact. We from the SRS would like Serbia to never enter the NATO Pact. I'm asking you -- what is your relationship to NATO, what is your relationship to the Russian Federation, and do you have any clear policy at all? In a few days, you will receive an official visit from the Russian Federation government. In June here in Belgrade, you will host some kind of NATO pact summit. What kind of politics is that? You think you can sit on two chairs and Russia and NATO won't understand. Well, they'll understand and they'll understand. That's why no one appreciates you. Identify yourself, Mr. Cvetkovic, or you are a NATO pact, but then be a man, so say, I am a NATO pact, or you are against the NATO Pact, so turn to co-operation with the Russian Federation. You can't be a NATO pact in the morning, and you can't be against him in the afternoon. You're in the morning for Putin, you're in the afternoon for the Americans. Identify yourself for your position. We will enter the EU, as you say. I ask you, with what limits? Will Serbia, apparently, enter the EU in your own words, although we suspect it will happen in any way, with borders on the Curse or with borders on the Copalnik? Do you think you can convince the United States, which is the EU's political mentor, to join the EU with the borders with which we are a member of the UN or with other borders? We from your exposé don't see what this government's position is about. It's an elemental thing. In your exposé, Mr Cvetkovic, there is no apostrophe of one fact seen from the plane, which is the next thing – how is it possible for the EU to lead only the RS policy of double arches? Is it asked of Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria to give up part of their territory to become a member of the EU? No, but Serbia is required to do so. Why do you keep your mouth shut about this? While you're quiet, while you're uninterestingly turning around in the O.R., instead of yours he said, "Wikilix." We from websites, white sites, read what is the official attitude of the EU and the United States towards Serbia. There is no kiM in Serbia. It's their official policy. What is your determination towards this policy? Do you support that, too? Are you fighting for Serbia in the EU with KIM or without KIM? We haven't heard anything from that today. The only thing you can see from the exposé is that you intend to run the same policy you've been leading since 2008. You say we didn't go bankrupt. We are not because of the current liquidity being bathed by foreign loans and bankrupted if it were not for the IMF, various European financial institutions that artificially keep this government alive. It's no special merit of yours, to understand each other at once. They wanted us not to go bankrupt. If they wanted us to go bankrupt, they'd go bankrupt, because a little bit of financial taps, which other girls, they'd turn. Mr. Cvetkovic, I'll say, I didn't want to talk about any names on purpose. I'm sorry if my address was too personal to you, but allow me to have the right to my political impression. In the difficult situation in which Serbia is located, we need strong people, strong leaders. We don't think you're a strong enough political figure to lead the RS government in some new direction. But I sincerely hope, on behalf of all patriotically defined citizens of RS, that it will not be long, that Serbia will return the UN tribunal's winner, a man of enormous energy, and that he will lead Serbia on a new path.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51681	Gentlemen, after the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary seat, in order to make it possible for the MP, it is an MP, a participation in the work of the National Assembly. We have been presented with a RIK report on the selection of MPs in order to fill the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Committee which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of the People's Ambassador, i.e. MPs to Marija Bulgarcic, elected from the Electoral List of LDP - Cedomir Jovanovic. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of Parliament to the People's Parliament, Maria Bulgarcic. Congratulations, MPs. We expect him to join us. Please welcome her with applause. National MP Branko Ruzic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51682	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Candidates for Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, of course, this topic is the subject of a political character couple of excellencies. The government's choice, whether it's a reconstruction or the election of a new government, also calls for public attention, and the attention of citizens and the attention of opposition and positional MPs. President Cvetkovic's exhibits contain all the elements that may be the subject of criticism by opposition MPs, but they, above all, point to what the government is planning to do next year. A very clear explanation of the commitment to the objectives that were important to this government and to the objectives of which the ruling coalition gathered at the beginning of the formation of the government. The economic measures this government will implement are also very clearly defined. It is also clear that regional co-operation is a very important segment of the government's functioning. Our position on foreign policy has been defined. Our position on the preservation of our country's integrity and sovereignty in relation to AP Kosovo and Metohija has been defined, and it is clear that we will remain attached to the very principles on which this government is formed, so I see no reason for any, at least most of the MPs present here, criticising those who say that this is a repeat of the 2008 story. I am convinced, on the other hand, that a future government will be a government of continuity, whoever participates in it, in relation to these five declared objectives, so that this criticism can serve as a tool for day-to-day political purposes, for the assembling of certain political points, but in no way can strategically endanger what is the orientation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This exposé and contained elements in this exposé are practically a reflection of exactly the need to elect new ministers today, the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, to take an oath, all in accordance with the amendments and additions to the Law on Government and the Law on Ministrys that we have brought before, practically, five or six days in this House. What remains a constant policy of this government is these five declared objectives, and in no way do I see that they will be threatened, therefore, nor committed to European integration, nor the preservation of the integrity and sovereignty of our country, the development of economy and economic development, the socially responsible government, or the socially responsible state, and its building and uncompromising fight against corruption and crime. Of course, what is a practical product of the adopted Law on Ministrys, Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act, is the so-called collapse of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Socialist Party of Serbia-United Serbia, but above all the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mr Dacic, has repeatedly indicated that we have always been ready to discuss this topic, to advocate a systemic solution, a system solution that will not be ad hoc and there will be no reflection of the current political moment. In this proposal, by selecting new ministers and practically rounding the entire system, we see one initiation of this process when hopefully in some future time we will really pass a law on ministries that will reflect Serbia's needs, Serbian citizens as the bearer of sovereignty, and we will not be under political interest, whether government or opposition at the time, because any current government can be some future opposition. The resolution ministers of the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition worked very hard in their portfolios until now, led very responsible resolutions that were practically, which the people would say, "hot potatoes" when we took them over. When we talk about the MUP, first of all you need to have knowledge, courage, wisdom, you need to have good co-operation with coalition partners and resolute ministers who treat crime and corruption issues and you need to show willingness to fight these monsters in an honest way. For the first time in Serbia's recent political history, this was done by SPS President Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. I don't think it's appropriate that some people here who are bawling and criticising why someone is calling on them for the alleged burning of the embassy, so easily talk about the heads of the cabinet and talk about anyone being involved with any criminal activity in the cabinets of the interior minister because, as Mr Nikolic was not at the information talks for the burning of the embassy, I didn't get the impression that anyone was on the information conversation on what he said. I think that such a thing can only be refused and we did not expect Mr Nikolic, who claims to represent a large number of Serbian citizens, thus treating the Ministry of the Interior with high quality work in the past time period. As far as the Ministry of Mining and Energy is concerned, I remind the well-respected Professor Petar Skundric has been very committed to the realization of all the declared objectives of the government in this segment, that a lot has been done on the issue of a gas-oil arrangement, that the implementation of the Project "South Stream", not only thanks to the Ministry of Mining and Energy, but also to the very good management of the Public Enterprise "Srbijagas" by Mr Dusan Bajatovic. That these projects are very important for our country, that these are projects that are not only in political and economic terms, but we can say freely and put them in a better position than those we were in in an earlier period. I would not mention strategic partnerships with the Chinese state, Chinese credit for the Kostolac thermal power plant and many other projects that were practically initiated during Mr Skundric's ministry. As far as the Ministry of Education is concerned, I must say that I expect that Resolute Minister Dr Zarko Obradovic will continue to be very responsible for leading this portfolio with which she is entwined and science and that she will manage very well in the work. We must conclude that this period has been practically declared a reform of the education system that is sustainable, which is rational, agreed with the IMF, that and, in addition to the very difficult socio-economic situation, it is very fundamental to find the opportunity to resolve the material position of the Enlightenment, but not secretly but very transparently, in public, with hours and hours of talks with the representatives of the union. I think it's a very good feature of a responsible minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the Ministry of Infrastructure is concerned, I must say that many criticisms that come from opposition MPs can also serve for the day-to-day political struggle, can be legitimate, can serve to assuage political points, but what is very important to express and demonstrate here is that from the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia 2008, above all this motivational role of Mr Mr Mrkonjic and his knowledge and experience which is uncontestable, but also what is serious and committed work, has led to the establishment of the National Council for Infrastructure, whose head has just come to this National Council, that there are very responsible people dedicated to this job. By 2008, the corridors, which are not corridors that have political omens, existed at the time of Tito, and at the time of Milosevic, and at the time of Djindjic and today, therefore, it is only European corridors that you can use as a comparative advantage of your country or you don't have to, so for the first time in a serious way, to this job and so far, regardless of anyone saying that some dynamics may not have been respected until the end, we can conclude that the 60km highway on Corridor 10 has been done. That this message was for those who criticized, and it was in the previous government, so that more than 30 billion dinars of the previous government's debt were returned to the pathways, and that also speaks of continuity, as much as anyone wants to create discontinuity, so we need to talk about the continuity of the government's functioning in individual resolutions, even in the infrastructure portfolio. The issue of expropriation has been resolved, the main projects have been carried out for 320 kilometers, the realization has begun, practically, Corridor 11 to Montenegro, on Ub – Lajkovac. Also, it is done, that is, rail reform has been done, road reform has been done, and we need to understand that it is not carrying one man, practically, and it is not only a brand of infrastructure in Serbia, but representatives of all ruling parties are involved in this business, and citizens need to know, above all, because of those who want to criticise one such undertaking. Of course, someone will say we don't have the results. I briefly presented a few of the basic data, at least compared to four resoracies dealing with the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition. I am sure that my colleague, Mr. Colakovic, will, in front of the PUPS party, talk about the pension system, reform of the pension system, and everything that treats the issue of this particular pension population, which is practically, at the request of some, should be under the social category, which it can never be. In that part, I'm really ready to talk to everyone about whether or not someone achieved the result. I believe that in the next period of time, as the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, I said, we must turn to the improvement of citizens, that, as it is said, we should not allow unpreparedness and haughtiness, to bring to a much higher degree the responsibility of all resolution ministers, precisely responsibility to what the objectives of this government are and what is the interest of the citizens of Serbia, as bearers of sovereignty. To prove that these measures of economic policy can make us better, that they can raise the employment rate, that they can lead us forward and, of course, what our interest is, some of us are maliciously representing us as the only reason for our being on the political scene, which is to gain EU candidate status, or more importantly, starting talks on the subject. I am convinced that there is a consensual approach for all of us here. Maybe one party or two aren't ready to publicly express it, but when they need it, they also know how to talk in superlatives. I think it's one big shift, because remember where we were in 2008, and look where we are today. I think that if we can access the realization of all these goals evolutionaryly, we can claim that we are on the right track. If the opposition or opposition party, or one of the leaders of the opposition, Mr Nikolic, who practically expresses regret or infidelity whether someone from the ruling coalition will now be forced to argue with the opposition among themselves, I do not think that the ruling coalition has the means of political action, and there is simply no need for such a thing. If you don't have a common denominator, if you're missing in profiling programs or ideologies, and eventually if you're missing in that you can't get together and collect enough votes from the citizens that you need to form a government on the idea of a programme that you haven't presented yet, then one such criticism, practically, serves only for day-to-day political needs. When May 11, 2011, it will be two months from now, we are entering the election year. That's why some Aprils are being talked about, that's why some early elections are being held, and that's why it's necessary to raise tension, so it's said that because of democratic principles, someone wants to make a ruling coalition, and then goes to Brussels, then from Brussels to Cachak, etc. I think citizens are at a much higher level of political consciousness than many who sit, unfortunately, still here today. It is therefore important that when we talk to citizens about something that awaits us, or what awaits them, we say it truthfully, taking into account both politics and political mathematics and everything that follows. Let someone come out and say that these five declared goals will not be the goals of some future government, I repeat, whoever sat in it and then I will truly be convinced that someone has the right argument. I have not noticed that any such statement, that it can raise efficiency in the realisation of these objectives, I am sure, not to mention that one of the opposition parties, LDP has made a very constructive contribution to those objectives, which they recognise as the interests of Serbian citizens, and it is commendable, as they have repeatedly criticised certain things the government has done. It's democracy, it's legitimate, and it's something that's perfectly natural in our country's highest legislative home. Finally, I would like to say that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the new government of the Republic of Serbia. I also want to express my confidence that this government will succeed in the next year to realize everything Prime Minister Cvetkovic has brought out here today. I expect citizens are also aware of the fact that, practically, the socio-economic situation is very difficult, but that we have tried some things to start from a dead end, that we have succeeded greatly, that we may have been better, but you have to be aware that those who do have to sometimes to make mistakes. In any case, I thank you for your attention and I want a lot of success in the future government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51683	The time spent by the president of the parliamentary group is 18 minutes and 15 seconds. Before we continue our work, on the basis of Articles 90, Section 2 and Article 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today after 1800 hours. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51684	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will respond, of course, to the line, first I must address you, Mr. Cvetkovic. You come here and act like a sack that can handle anything. Soon you will have to put electricity into the seats of the MPs, so that they can welcome the end of the debate alive and vote for your government. Answer one of the questions we asked you if you need us. If we're not, believe me, we have smarter things to do than sit here and attend to this agony. It's not 20 minutes enough for us to say everything we think has to be said, so this year is different from the last three. Mr. Ruzic, it's very nice that you're showing understanding of some public interest we've been talking about for years, but you have a problem within your ruling coalition. Relations on the opposition side are much more serious than within the ruling coalition. There are political differences between us, very serious, and there is no political difference within the ruling coalition. That's why we're here now to be the hostages of this pointless situation. You mentioned Minister Mrkonjic. He hasn't arrived in 20 minutes. The most inefficient minister in the most important project, the government's European integration project. Zero law, here's the report, zero law. A political demagogy that is offensive to society. You cannot hide Mrkonjic behind the president of the Republic, who is the president of some infrastructure-related council where Mrkonjic is the only engineer. Railway - a billion euros loss. The highway – we make the wrong tape without any document. We're withdrawing 15% of the money at our disposal. CIP; CIP is a building and the people sitting in the building spend their budget and no projects have been done. Every member of the government knows that, and nothing is done about it. If you need us here, let us know. If we didn't, let's go do some other jobs, because everything we told you, we didn't tell you with ambition to say something and make our soul easier, but with ambition to have a conversation about it. If we want to run a European policy, where is the character of this European policy? Are we taking her to Europe or to create some values here? (President: Two minutes. If we're talking about a new economy, who is it? New tax policy, employment policy. What are these concrete measures? The leaders of the region, what jobs? I guess that's the theme for talking about the government's reconstruction, if you've come to parliament with that ambition. If you've come, like your predecessors, just to stay as long as you have to, okay, then that's the attitude towards the Assembly and that's bad for you again, because the new energy you're talking about isn't shown today. It doesn't matter that they're old ministers. But there's no awareness of the need to change anything, and if the government is anaesthesia anyway, how can we expect anything positive? If language is an offensive way of provoking each other to dialogue, then it's simply communication that we don't participate in. Let others do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51685	People's MP, replica time has been used. Thank you. (Milutine Mrkonjic, from the place: Can we talk? Please don't let Jovanovic insult you. ) Please participants in the session not to receive. Please don't throw it away. I ask all participants in the session to respect their business obligations to have the right to speak with the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic. Does he want a word? Yeah. The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51686	Dear People's MPs, since I'm officially reporting for the first time now, I welcome you. I did not intend to respond to the general views of the MPs, but rather to engage in a conversation when the debate begins on behalf of the MPs, so that is why I did not answer, not because I agreed or disagreed with what was said. So when the debate starts, I'll be in it, of course, and I'll be in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51687	The word has a letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51688	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers and candidates for ministers and vice-presidents, today we are discussing, in fact, our topic today – the choice of government members in the reconstructed government. When we have that on the agenda, then we can at least go from a few angles to this subject. One is to talk about results, and the other is to talk about projections and those expectations that this job is about. When it comes to results, then I always think that the opposition should be heard because, as a representative of the coalition that supports this government, I know the results of this government, I respect what the government has managed to do in circumstances that have not been easy and I don't think it's right for us to talk about these results. I think it's important for the opposition to say what it is that is not well done, what it is that should be done, what it is that the government has failed to do, and it has to be, what it is, what it has done, and it has not dared. Unfortunately, we haven't heard any of that. Now I really have to look at what I want to say completely differently. I didn't hear, except for the incorrect fact that 13% of the European agenda of jobs has been completed, so that's over 90% in total, this quarter is 13%, but the overall European agenda has been done with over 90%. The truth works, I think it's important to know. If I were to ignore completely that the flat-rates, general places, qualifications as nothing is right, that nothing has been done, that the country is in a difficult state, that no one has made the relationship between what it started, what the goal is set, and what the result of that goal is set, then we could be able to talk realistically about what the government was going to do, give it a mandate to do it, and in what circumstances it should have been achieved and what it has achieved. Then perhaps we could have a more constructive discussion about it and perhaps then we could achieve the goal some mention, which is that this government is looking for allies not only among the parties that support it, but allies and in other parts of society, so that the very difficult situation in which the country is all together can be overcome in a much more successful way. I will speak first of all from a corner of someone who supports this government and who will vote for a new reconstructed government. When the need to reconstruct the government appears in parliament, it means at least a few things. The first thing is that there is a need to make some changes that will help us achieve the goals we set as effectively as possible. Then it also means that at a time when the government was elected and set its objectives, circumstances were different, that something happened in the meantime, primarily the global economic crisis, and that it changed both the pace of work and the priorities of the government's work and that it is now setting new tasks before the government, which is the result of the economic crisis. Of course, when the government is reconstructed, it also means that there was something in the work of that government or in some solutions personal, which did not allow the government to give its full effect. At the same time, it also means that it has been estimated that some new people who enter the government will give a new boost and new energy, new ideas, in order to achieve the objectives that have been outlined to a full extent. I don't want to defend the government. I don't think that's our job. The government is best told by its results. I think anyone who has good intentions and an honest desire to do something to make the government do better will really come from objective facts about what has been done and what can be done to make it better. On behalf of the MPs who support this government and the citizens who gave us the mandate to choose this government with these objectives, I want to talk first and foremost about what are the reasons why we support this government. We support this government because of the policy it leads, although, of course, by the opposition, we get quite the opposite, but also the mutually dissuasive messages, that what needs to be changed is the policy, or the objectives of this government. We support this government precisely because the policy it has established and the objectives it has defined and voted for in the government's election, it insists on achieving them. What is really the most important goal for us and it is both the goal and the means at the same time, are Serbia's European integration. There is no dispute that the policy that is based on this goal is the essence of what we stand for, not only because we want Serbia to become an EU member, but because we understand that on the way to full membership in the EU Serbia will transform itself as a society into a democratic, economically developed and orderly society, a modern society and a much, much stronger society, from the point of view of its institutions. It is legitimate that this policy and this strategic goal are being challenged. I don't think we should even be bickering with those who dispute that goal. The problem is that the alternative they offer is not even a comfort for a major historic project such as the EU. There are those who think we're not going to the EU fast enough. I could agree with them and say – if you want to help, any help to speed up this process is always welcome and I don't know that we've ever refused that help. But I don't think it's helpful if you hit us on the feet and we fall, trying to achieve that goal, and those who hit us say we hit you because we want you to go faster. So it's a hard way to make a fundamental alliance to achieve that goal. Some others, however, who say you are not going fast enough and who were shackles and bucagia on Serbia's European feet yesterday, now say – you are not going fast enough, we will do so much faster than you. True, we will also do things that are far from what Europe recognises as European standards, we will not give up our past for 20 years, we will not give up what we have said and what we have done to others, but, behold, we will now be faster than you. But on the other hand, they never show a shred of willingness to do any job that is in the interest of achieving that goal together with us. And we were never an obstacle to doing so with us. So, not a single time, nothing we've done, trying to speed Serbia's path to the EU, they haven't helped with anything, not in a word or in any way. Of course, all the other goals that the government has set during the elections, which it has confirmed this time, are those goals that make us vote for this reconstructed government this time. But what I'm expecting is next. We expect this government to show unity. Because this government is a collective body, responsible to the Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This government is not and cannot be a gathering of parties, individuals, parliamentary groups etc. This government is the body chosen by the National Assembly to achieve the goals for which we voted together, the ones who supported this government. What we expect from this government is to show full responsibility to the imminent victims of the transition. So Serbia is a society in transition and the truth is that many of the problems this government needs to solve are neither made nor able to solve them. Many of these problems have been emerging for decades. So, to choose just one single example -- if this government had to solve the question of paying pensions for people who haven't been paid for 20 years, then it can't be said that this government can be responsible for it. But what we certainly expect is to show a strategy to help those who are victims of transition. Because the victims of the transition and all the events that follow us even before 1990 and the 1990s, in which these consequences were most drastic, are huge and when someone wants to compare Serbia with some other countries in the environment, then it must also take into account the fact where Serbia started in 2000 when it decided to go towards the EU. She's gone from a level that can't compare to any other country. So she was completely devastated, fried ground. If we want to say now what the results of the government have been since 2000, then we still need to start from the level that these governments have been going from. Accordingly, this government has come to a certain level of trouble. Admit it or not, someone can deny that the economic crisis didn't happen, but the fact is that it did happen. One might say - the economic crisis has not caused quite such consequences, but the fact is that it has caused quite such consequences. We can talk about whether all the measures are taken to overcome the consequences of the economic crisis in the most painless way. We expect further from the government that, as a single team, including all the important factors of society, it will find the best solutions for all the problems this country faces. These problems are not simple and what can be said is that the biggest recognition of this government deserves because during the most difficult period of the economic crisis it has managed to preserve macroeconomic stability, to preserve the country from the earthquakes experienced by some other countries that have been in a better starting position than we have, it has managed to carry out essential reforms in many areas and to give us the excellent results the whole world recognises. So, in this country, the most tragic thing has always been, in my opinion, when the world acknowledges our success, and we here cancel it out and say we didn't do anything and we didn't deserve anything and we didn't do anything. All those who claim that the reforms that have been made in areas such as the defence, for example, do not deserve recognition as reforms that have a distinct recognition of all those who are relevant to evaluate it, as well as in some other areas, and therefore I think that what is important – we would be happy to listen to those who do not support this government if they really did make some proposals. We would be happy to listen to them if they really pointed out some mistakes. Insults, disqualifications, undoing everything really doesn't deserve a serious answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51689	14 minutes and 25 seconds have been used for the president of the parliamentary group. MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants a replica. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51690	Everyone, of course, in this House, since there are such rules, can be said, but we are not obliged to accept everything you've said, Mrs. Kolundjia. We are the last parliamentary group to whom you have the right to say that we have not suggested something, because most of what the government subsequently accepted as measures were proposals that we were running for. Not to us, we appreciate Mr. Sutanovac's reforms more than his party. In the party's election for vice president, the least votes were won by a man who did most in front of the party in the government. That's what we talked about openly. If we're talking about European integration, so let's not talk about 2008, in the last quarter that's been measured, 13% of what we have fulfilled. We say it's bad and let's fix it. We're not saying they'd go to waste in that business. When the government took office, the average salary in Serbia was 400 euros and 400 euros in Montenegro. The same crisis in Serbia, the same crisis in Montenegro. Now there are 500 euros, we have 320 euros. It's not just the crisis. True, many problems have been inherited. The problem is that the government has not faced these problems in a responsible way. The pension fund's problem was inherited, but how did the government answer that problem? By raising pensions linearly to all pensioners for 10%, cutting the budget for 500m euros, pushing the euro against the dinar, and here we are today in 2011 with Mr. Krkobabic as the most radical advocate of pension reform, while everyone else is yelling – stop, wait, the elections are this year. Economic policy. Why is the level of investment in Montenegro a level of investment in Serbia, while Montenegro is 15 times smaller? What laws have we passed? The law on planning and construction. I'm sure it's not Dulic's whim. So many times we talked about him here, so many times we criticized him, it's not his whim, it's the demagogue need of this government to offer society justice, because he can't offer him money. Here's one day the head of this investor, the second day the head of another investor, and in the end there are no more investors, and even the heads are not enough anymore. That is why we need sobering, a serious debate on how politics will be conducted during the rest of this government's work, criticism of what was bad and support for what was good.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51691	Two minutes. Thank you. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51692	I really don't know why you guys recognized each other or why you reacted so loudly. I have confessed to all those who have helped carry out the work, especially when it comes to reform processes. But you can't argue that your struggle sometimes kills whoever's wearing it. So you have to make sure that you are sometimes a stronger opponent of the one who carries reform and European integration than you are of those who assist in these reforms.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51693	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right of replica, and MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51694	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if everything is as Mrs. Nada Kolundzija says, then one fundamental question is asked – why do you approach the reconstruction of the government that everyone in the world praises, which has great results in its work and one government of which clearly no better can be chosen in Serbia? Then why the government reconstruction? Why the change of some ministers in the government? One of your general positions in the criticism of the SRS – we are not offering an alternative. We offer - not in the EU, stop shameful co-operation with The Hague tribunal, indeed lead to a decisive and honest fight against crime and corruption. The fight against crime and corruption, Mrs. Kolundjia, does not lead by arresting doctors who perform some surgical interventions for 100, 200 or 500 euros. Of course the state should fight against it, but what about privatising Luke "Belgrade", "Evening News", what about the "Moby 63" affair, what about the 1001 second affair in Serbia? Here's what it says in Mr Mirko Cvetkovic's exposé: "We will propose system laws, among other things, system law on how to choose the MPs and the system law on the matter of the blank resignation." It is a question of all issues in Serbia – whether we will have blank resignations or not. Do you think that depends on Serbia's future? So it's just amazing. The government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Kolundzija, should act as a team and agree with that. Every good government performs as a team. Then why are you building a group of individuals who don't tie anything up? How come one standard for government, another standard for MPs? How should the government be a team and legalize the theft of mandates in the National Assembly? I guess the same principle should apply to both parliament and the government, a team before the parliamentary groups should be united. So what you said is really not based on any facts. I'm interested in one thing – when will you stop paying attention to the period since 2000? (President: Two minutes. ) Should we wait another 20, 50, 100 or 200 years, and say that no one is responsible for the situation in Serbia anymore, it's our fault. Free Milosevic, Mrs. Kolundzija, was in power for 10 years, same as you, you are even longer in power than he was.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51695	Thank you. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51696	It is totally unacceptable to interpret our criticism with ambition that what is positively done is suspended and that those who do these jobs are destroyed. On the contrary. Mrs. Kolundjia, I don't think it's normal for our party to no longer defend the necessity of reforming the judiciary and your minister from the ruling coalition that chose her and what laws she passed. I don't think it's normal for us to defend the failed privatisation more from you whose benches are the best privatisation minister in Serbia, Vlahovic. We have a problem precisely because you would reform Serbia, but do not change in Serbia any of what would confront you with most of which, of course, the price of these changes should pay. You call it transition victims. I'd call them by another name, people who are also responsible for the state they're in. You always find money in Kragujevac for those who have been paid for 20 years because they haven't made cars, they mostly voted for Milosevic and I think they should take responsibility for the consequences of their actions. The students of Kragujeva University received nothing but a city that is an industrial cemetery. Here's Mirko Cvetkovic. He was the director of the Privatisation Agency. We're more defending your privatisation than you are. What is the country's fate in a transition that does not implement privatisation, does not reform PIO, does not improve the education system? We have a rector who complains against the criteria of Shanghai University, and he's upset that the reference point is the number of Nobel students, the number of students who received the Nobel Prize, the number of foreign students. What kind of school do we want if those criteria bother us? I guess we need a plan to get a university like that. There's a whole series of paradoxes. This is the moment, because when we get out of this assembly, and you and I are citizens of this country, our children are probably something to think about, friends that we also represent here. Let's see where the space is to do something. When he starts shooting, he'll shoot over all of us. You've suspended those forces in society that can do a lot. I don't mean clients. The party state suffocating everything. Let's reform public enterprises. You've announced it. Give me a plan when any will be reformed. (President: Two minutes. ) The price of chaos they produce is too high and too little benefit from sacrificing them on behalf of party stability.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51697	National MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51698	Article 107. Rules of Procedure. I think it is a violation of Parliament's dignity that one party is declared to be the bearer of a European project in Serbia. I think there's more or less our problem. That should mean that we should have an understanding of the mistakes you're making because you're supposed to be the bearers of a European project. Let me tell you what kind of bearers you are, since you have denied the numbers that Cedomir Jovanovic presented. So, the national integration investment plan, this is the plan the government itself made, the fourth quarter of last year, the 16 laws needed to be adopted, two to 13% was adopted; the ministries and special organisations are planning to adopt 85 sublegal acts, and it was adopted 47, which makes up 55% of the success; in terms of the third quarter, out of 117 planned, 55 regulations – 47%. Are they the bearers of the European project in Serbia? You know what, we have tried very clearly so many times to tell you that because of all the citizens of this country, you cannot assume the role of someone who is a monopolies in the European integration project, because your political failure, which is inevitable and only now you have delayed it for a while, it must not mean the failure of the European integration project in Serbia. We've told you a hundred times that you can't identify yourself with that. Every citizen of this country is the bearer of a European project for himself, in his house, anywhere. All 250 MPs are carriers. It is not for me, Minister Djelic, who has seen the topic being opened, so he has escaped, he is a distraction in the process of European integration, not personally, but the co-ordination centre he runs, which is related to it, because the results on that path are very bad and are getting worse. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51699	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51700	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I really didn't think he'd go like this. When I say that we are the bearers of this project, we have responsibility, it's the project we've won the elections, whose goals we've identified as the objectives of this government and where we're working. In that sense, I said it, not including anyone else from the fact that he's also the bearer of that same project. So, just from the point of view of responsibility, as someone who took responsibility to work on this project. I don't think it should offend anyone when I say something like that, because it's just a fact. Of course, it is understood that including all the potential and strengths that can contribute to achieving that goal is something that is supposed to be our expectations for this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51701	There's two reports again. Now there's really no basis for replication. Please understand that this session will run so that everyone will be entitled to replication, but not by jeopardizing each other's normal course of session. So this last one really doesn't have a basis for replication. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51702	Mrs. Komic, absolutely like you, I want this debate to run normally, because I think it's too much of what's compromising that we can afford each other to knock hands off here without a lot of sense. I'm going to ask you for an elementary appreciation of something that we recognize in the standard of respect for the Parliament's dignity. We've raised big questions here at the beginning of the conversation. We expect the Prime Minister to offer answers to these questions, so that we can talk further. I guess that's the essence of parliamentary life. So the president was talking about economic policy, we said – please specify this. It speaks of Kosovo, we said – give an alternative, because what we see is not what the president is talking about. We need to talk about this here now, at this point, in a serious way. That's all it's about. Of course it is understood that you have taken responsibility for this European project, you are the government, the government in itself is responsible for many things, and we recognize our share of responsibility in this business. We have been motivated and supported by every European effort by your government. That is why we are most concerned about unnecessary interpretations and mistakes made consciously, because of something that is far less valuable than the price we pay. Serbia can get a more effective government than it is now offered, it can get a more logical government, it can get a government behind which parties will stand aware of what they did wrong. None of this is the case now. For months, we've been reading about who's going to be replaced, who's going to come, who's going to be Prime Minister, who's not going to be Prime Minister, in the end, all of this is such a hill-scramble, and it's all just so we can get through this day, and that's what's bothering us. That's what bothers us, I'm sure in the DS, that in that Union of the region, even socialists have more potential than we are now offered. Absolutely the only problem this day is that you yourselves are taking away the opportunity to be successful, and we do not see any use for us in your destruction. It's not our destiny to always leave the ashes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51703	Two minutes. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51704	The President-in-Office, working presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, the PUPS parliamentary group has given support to these solutions in the debate on the laws on government and ministries, and this is what it does today in the debate on the reconstructed government. In that sense, we support Mr. Cvetkovic's exposés, the prime minister, and we support the solutions proposed here today. For the PUPS parliamentary group, it is very important and important to remain on the priorities set out in July, June 2008, when the ruling coalition is established. We particularly support those measures that you have highlighted in relation to the need for the economic stability of this country. We also think that without economic stability there can be no social stability either, but there can also be no political stability. Among the two priorities that we particularly advocate, about economic and social stability, it is good to establish a balance, which will ensure the parallel stability of these two policies. Especially for our parliamentary group, we stress the need for the social stability of the state and the social measures that must be taken in this regard. In particular, Mr Ruzic spoke about what we particularly advocated, and in this regard, in the last few years, we have looked for the best solutions in terms of social stability, and in particular I mean the Law on PIO and the accompanying laws that we have adopted in this congregation in the past period. I particularly stress the need for this law, which is now in the process, on social protection, to contribute to that goal that we particularly advocate. In the past few years, and especially in last year, we insisted on passing the Law on PIO. It was adopted at the end of last year and provides for that social stability in the most vulnerable part of the population and in the largest number of organised society, which is one million and 650 thousand pensioners. I also stress the government's measures made over the past few years, when it comes to agreements with the former republics of Yugoslavia, particularly Slovenia, BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia and Croatia. This solves the problems of thousands of citizens of our country, who have exercised their rights in these countries. I would also agree that the ministries in which the SPS-JS coalition personnel and the PUPS have produced recorded results in the work of this government. In this regard, I would support the views Mr. Ruzic made. We express our special satisfaction that, at the head of social policies, Vice-President Dr Jovan Krkobibic has achieved results over the past few years and has in this respect the full support of our party and our coalition. In this regard, as a parliamentary group with a minimum number of MPs, we have made a full contribution to the work of this Parliament and in particular to the support given to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on all issues and priorities identified at the beginning of the term of office. Finally, given that we appreciate that there is little need to talk about this, we expect the government to remain consistent with the principles set out here, the principles on which the coalition has formed and in this respect will have our full support in the coming period. To the new ministers and all others who have been so far, and to the Prime Minister and Vice-Presidents, we want in the coming period many successes, more unity, more efficiency and much better results than they have ever been.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51705	Five minutes and 45 seconds have been used for the president of the parliamentary group. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, and who hasn't used their rights, want a word? If not, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), parliamentary groups have submitted applications for a word in writing, with a order of MPs. This course of the sitting shall belong to the Members declared in accordance with the order. National MP Jovan Damjanovic is entitled to five minutes. He expressed his desire to speak, but he has a duty at the moment, so he'll get a word when he's done with his duties. The first registered speaker, MP Bajram Omeragic, followed by MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51706	Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, honourable MPs, since I did not get the right to reply, and here were so many replicas that were not related to names, names, or the names of the parties, to answer those who spoke in inappropriate words today about Mr. Ugljanin, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Bosniak List For European Sandzak has accepted the Office for underdeveloped areas, which covers the territory of nearly a million people, i.e. citizens of RS, living in the most difficult conditions. This has been a challenge to our political option, and we have not escaped from that challenge, but we have already embarked on this job. This job was not very popular, and no one took up on it, because you know that almost a million people live on the territory of underdeveloped areas in the most difficult conditions, where this economic crisis had the greatest consequences. I want to tell those who spoke to the Minister in inappropriate words today, that he speaks more of them than of the Minister. What I want to point out today, I have talked about this several times here, is that in the Sandzak region the economic situation is extremely difficult and I would take advantage of the opportunity today, when Mr Ciric is there, the Bosniak List For European Sandzak will support this reconstruction and vote for this government, especially because we want to send a message to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and to Mr Ciric at the beginning of this term to pay attention to the frapantic economic indicators in Sandzak, the unemployment rate is at the African level. To just mention all those who mention Sandzak here from the opposition and from other parties, I watched and everyone participated in some government, I don't remember anyone having any program to develop Sandzak. I'm not a member of a political option that advocates some logic of state interventionism in the economy, but I'm not even a part of the logic of classical fair wood, which is that only the market can regulate all relations in the economy. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown that it stands in this first position, not only it but many countries today in the world. Today, the U.S. government, the British government, is helping banks, individual firms. Simply, this economic crisis has done so that the state must somehow help, especially when it comes to the poorest, when it comes to those who need only one intervention aid. Our government, supported by the Sandzak citizens, invested hundreds of millions in Kragujevac, invested hundreds of millions in Bor. We have good results there today. Our government brought "Beneton" to Nis there. There's a "I'm savvy." There are many companies, but we have African unemployment in Sandzak, it is greater than 50% and I ask you to make an economic programme at the beginning of this government to simply do what we did in Bora, what we did in Kragujevac, what we do in other parts of Serbia, to simply take and apply that principle in Sandzak and intervene in some way, not for the state to deal with the economy but simply to bridge this economic situation the way it is in Bora or in other parts of Serbia. We had a situation for Serbiagas to save Agroziv, save Azotara, save many companies by entering capital through the conversion of debt and preventing the company from going bankrupt. That's what we should have done when it comes to "Raska" factory, when it comes to PIC "Pester", when it comes to other firms, that we simply treat Sandzak as well as other parts of Serbia. I want to point out once again that at the beginning of this government we do this program and we have a year to raise unemployment in Sandzak. I think there are also political reasons why I occasionally speak in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51707	Five minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger Riza Halimi has a word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Vlajko Senić. Time is available for three minutes and 25 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51708	Mr. Prime Minister, during the debate on the draft law on ministries, the government's representative rejected all criticisms addressed to the proposal to abolish the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and claimed that the standard of exercising minority rights in Serbia is at the highest level and that Serbia is far above the environment and European standards. The facts first speak of Serbia returning to an old more restrictive model with weaker results than the last three-year period, when the minority ministry functioned. If someone is trying to justify this move by practice in other countries, then the question is why the same criterion did not apply to the ministry of diaspora and religion, as well as to the Ministry of Kosovo. In a difficult economic situation, most citizens have huge social problems, but objectively members of individual minority communities are in an even worse situation, and the official reports from Belgium, Germany, Sweden, which talk about a large number of Albanians and Roma, who are trying to get jobs in these countries through asylum. It is not an accident, especially when it is known that van Vojvodina, the areas in which the majority of minority communities live, are the most underdeveloped areas in the country. The Presevo municipality, with about 90% of the Albanian population, is the most underdeveloped municipality in the country, with seven times the population's population per capita compared to the national average and with a record unemployment rate of over 70%, which is the same for the Albanian population in Bujanovac and Medvedja. It is also known that, although not spoken publicly, there has been a significant reduction in the number of members in most minority communities in the Republic of Serbia between the two latest lists. In Albanians, this reduction is even more dramatic because the data suggest that from the last regular census in this area in 1981 to 2002 there was an absolute reduction of 14,651 Albanians, and taking natural growth for this 20-year period then it was more than 35,000 Albanians who migrated during this period or escaped from this area during the emergency and wartime. And we have a miracle in these terms in the budget for the last two years of budgetary positions through which only the Serbian population should be prevented or migration, so I've already asked the question, Mr. President, and now I'm not getting answers to parliamentary questions. What do you have in your exposé on the socio-economic problems of Serbs in Kosovo, who should deal with the socio-economic problems of Albanians in this area, especially when you last mentioned that certain topics will be the subject of the upcoming dialogue and if this dialogue goes, ten and more years as it is announced, when will these people arrive at their turn to solve their problems?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51709	National MP, the time available to your MP group has been used. Thank you. The People's Messenger Vlajko Senić has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Zarko Koraq. The People's Messenger Zarko Koraq has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Smiljana Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51710	Madam Vice President, honourable members of the government, I must say that the material we have received, these biographies of candidates and ministers so far and again, the candidates for the new government are still humiliating to us. I know you passed on what they wrote themselves, but maybe it still shows how co-ordination is in the government. It's horrifying for me to have someone write that they're trained to work on a computer on their own. This is the year 2011, the 21st century. So does he work with his grandkids, with kids, or help his neighbors, but this is someone to write in his biography? We have a candidate who said Milosevic gave him the medal himself. As far as I know, the Order is given by a state, not an individual. The highlight is what the candidate for the Minister of Culture wrote to us in his biography. He says - I never show up in public with anyone from my private life, which is nonsense linguistic, or deny media writings. This is someone's résumé? In the history of the world, no one contributed as part of their biography so that we could understand better and vote for it. But what's much more serious for me here is that, Mr. Cvetkovic, I think it should have been, it's okay, it's civilized to thank the current ministers at work, it's certainly what I'd say, in some civilized sense, it's necessary, but there was still something to say about which ministries were doing more and which were doing less. I simply miss your exposé some analysis of what was done, because not all the ministries worked here equally. The Ministry of Justice, which has tried to reform many problems and many, many serious mistakes, has already been mentioned here, but the awareness that it is necessary to reform, is nevertheless a process that is under way. The Ministry of Defence has made, in my opinion, a very serious reform, very bravely entered the process of professionalising the military, which is a very serious matter. So, some ministries have been doing it undisputedly, and so should you here point out when you're talking, so it's not all negatively evaluated. On the other hand, some ministers have not met at all, fulfilled their obligations. Only for example, while the culture minister was a minister, his resignation was given by the director of Philharmonic, director of the National Theatre, the National Museum in Belgrade has been closed for years and has mocked the Republic Square. So it must be realized that some ministers have done more, some ministries than others. I think that the part was missing here, but also what was missing, Mr. Cvetkovic, is someone predicting for the next six months, seven, eight months, how much this government is going to work, optimally by the spring next year and probably shorter – what are the real priorities, except, of course, the most common places and the finding that unemployment is a huge economic crisis. So, what's the focus of this government's work? It cannot be by chance that the agriculture minister has been removed, when during his term in Serbia people could not buy milk. Of course, if it was another man, he'd resign himself, but I don't expect it. Then it had to be realized that the Ministry had failed and that we were choosing some other people who would lead it and we were going to say what the priorities of what would be done now. Since I have no more time, our parliamentary group has little time, I must say here, with full awareness of what I am saying, that one of the objectives of this government is full of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, and that the health minister is chosen by a man who was publicly told that he was a friend of Ratko Mladic, and that, while he was at the head of the VMA, VMA medicines went to him. It's not the Hippocratic oath and obligation of a doctor, which is of course important, to treat every man, regardless of anything else. This is about the fact that it's about a man who's a fugitive from justice. I think it's a huge mortgage of this government, and I'm not talking about the health sector working over 100,000 people, there's a total of health workers in Serbia of all kinds, and that it was necessary to find, of course, a man who could have this difficult and still partially destroyed health system to restore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51711	Four minutes of MP time was used. The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51712	Thank you. Dear People's MP, here's if you'll allow me to look back at these criticisms of yours regarding the exposés. First, as far as thanking individuals, I did it, but not in the exposé, but individually, and I talked to each of my former ministers, and we talked about it. We first looked at what was done, what was not and what was waiting for us in the future, and I talked about their future engagements, whether in the government or in some other institutions, so I just wanted to let you know that I was doing it in one way, to say, a human and collegiate way, and that nothing was so over my knee that nobody knew about it. However, I considered it my own personal relationship, not something that would deserve to enter the exposés. The second thing, you mentioned judicial reform, was not clear to me in what context. In the exposé, I mentioned it in two places. The essence of this reform is that it is still in progress, which is currently in one direction that is undoubtedly good, which is agreed with the European Commission, which is included in the Venice Commission, which is literally each of these next steps first planned and what is being taken is precisely understood why it is taken in this way, why in that way. Of course, we have a lot, individually, of course, of people who think they're hit. Some of them are still making noises, etc. But I just feel like it's my job. I joined that reform about two months ago, when these big problems arose. This is happening together and we are taking responsibility that it will successfully end in the period ahead of us and that it will not be a brake for our European integration. You asked the second question about the very structure of the exposé. I was really in a dilemma about whether the exposé contained general directions or whether it contained concrete operational measures. There has been a conclusion that parliament is not the place where operational measures are being discussed, although I have at least one or two operational measures for each of these general directions that you will see in the period ahead of us and the minors within 15 to 20 days some of these measures will be visible. They will go towards meeting those strategic objectives. In doing so, these measures will have a double fact. Some of them will have an immediate and immediate impact on the solution to the problem, and some will set up foundations and have effects in the long term. Finally, I decided at the concept to expose only those strategic, not so strategic, but only those directions, but not operational measures because of the character of the discussion that could follow. But what I just said, I wrote in one sentence, that the government will deal with measures that will have a strategic and operational character. I think someone else wrote exposés, maybe he'd get involved in considering individual measures, and I didn't think that was necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51713	MP Zarko Korać, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51714	It means eight judicial reform in a very similar way to you. So it was necessary to involve international institutions. Given that one of the criteria for EU accession is the state of the judicial system in general, the way it works, the structure, and that is one of the most serious criteria. What I wanted here and what my wish was yet to say, and for a short time I didn't say, is that you made a very controversial decision about what the ministers might say and the Deputy Prime Minister, who, in my opinion, fell at the first step. I would like to remind you that the current minister and proposed minister, Mr Mr Mr Mrkonjic, has just said that he is actively working on the return of Ms Mira Markovic from Russia to Serbia. I wonder if it's part of the coalition agreement? Of course, I know it isn't, but that's just what shows how much the obligations of ministers and government members will be fulfilled to stick to some common and agreed policies. Personally, I think it was quite a conscious provocation. When you read his biography carefully, you will see parts of the biography that clearly show his great loyalty, even in those attitudes that even his own party has reshaped at this time and in a slightly different way defends or publicly advocates them. In other words, I know that coalition governments are difficult, but that's why yours, Mr. Cvetkovic, is a great responsibility that I respect in this difficult social and economic situation in the country, so at the end of the term, you say quite frankly – why is it that the government cannot function and what is the reason for such obstructions? At least one résumé was accompanied here was made as a political provocation and it is my duty to conclude it. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic has just revealed here that he is loyal to the former SPS. If that's the case, why don't you go public with it and get out of this government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51715	The word is from Ambassador Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the Democratic Left of Roma will focus precisely on the problems of the national community to which it belongs, because we all know that there are the most problems in the national Roma community. Surely there are a lot of problems in the majority people. We know what a complicated situation is in the country, but we have an international Decade of Roma, which was signed by the prime minister of our country, we have a strategy adopted in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have a decision by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, where a decision has been taken on an affirmative basis that high school students and students can enroll in the budget of the state. Although they didn't sign up, the state made a decision, but now someone's failed. It is certain that the state has done much, and this parliament has done much for the progress of the Roma community and for improving the eradication of poverty, education and in all other areas. I must say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular I want to point out that I would also like to thank the Government, and particularly Minister Dulic, who has given a significant project to the Roma community, precisely the employment of Roma and the opening of recycling centres. This means cleaner ecological Serbia, healthier citizens, and the Roma people will be hired and we will slowly eradicate poverty in other flows that are envisaged. The anti-discrimination law was also passed. Dear Serbs, a respected state, a respected national minority, I have no other state but Serbia and I have no other Serbs and national communities, except here that exist across Serbia. I expect this government and this state to implement greater capacities all that will strengthen minorities, especially the Roma community in our country. I want to point out that education in our country is very important. If we don't have educated personnel, we can't integrate into this society. I therefore appeal to all structures for decisions taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and certain ministers to be implemented in a positive way, so that Roma children, Roma youth and students can be educated, educated and that they can be represented tomorrow in certain structures of the state and integrate. I would also like to appeal to the state, and I believe that we will find an opportunity with Mr. Predrag Markovic, if we want to integrate the Roma, inform the Roma, to preserve what they say, language, culture and customs, which are three segments that mark one national minority. I'm going to ask Mr. Markovic to see us return to the Roma television, which we were five years old, so it's been lifted. I find nothing bad or harmful, it's an affirmation of both our country and our right to have Roma media. I also want to say that the Democratic Left will absolutely support the government that is formed and that we believe it will do everything, not just for the minority community and for the Roma community, in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have to tell you, and you all know that there have been a lot of exhibits in our country, in certain places, and I say like this: Serbia has never been and will never be a country of chauvinism and hatred of minority people, nor was it. I believe it will never be. That's why all these phenomena about chauvinism, the attacks on the Roma community, the desecration of the monuments of Saban Bajramovic, that our state and our community are about to intervene in those directions, because these opponents, who do not wish well for this state, are not stronger than the state of the Republic of Serbia. I believe it won't happen again, that the state will react. I am also pleased by the president of the state of Tadic, who condemned this vandalism and this chauvinism. I am pleased to hear from Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic, Justice Minister Mrs Malovic also reported. These are the important interests of the state to include and to appeal that this does not happen anymore. I believe that such phenomena will not appear, that we will implement exactly the civilization and democratic flows that lead us right into the European community, where all citizens will live better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51717	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Smiljana Milisavljevic, and after it is the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51718	Dear Prime Minister, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today in Serbia, which is hit hard by the world's economic crisis, is the easiest and most rewarding to criticise. It doesn't cost you anything, now the state protects all freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, so that's why you won't be having any conconsequences, while on the other hand, criticism releases all responsibility and people seem classy. That's how you show that you have an attitude. One sits on the Styrofoam and is wise about the elections as a Solomonic solution to get out of the crisis, while others seek a turn and reconstruction of the policy, and when you ask them how they will implement it, you find quite thin arguments. The government listens to both, but moves and measures are being taken in line with situations and opportunities, and in order to address the issues of citizens who expect it. You don't have to be an economic export to realize how difficult the economic situation is, both in the world and in Serbia. When we criticise, it would be good to know that Serbia is not an isolated island, that the economic situation is not just up to us, and that it depends on countries in the world and the region, which are also in crisis. The move by reducing the number of ministries to a significantly smaller number is not a marketing trick, as some want to present it, but is conditioned by the difficult economic situation in the country, shortages, daily problems in the most important sectors. It is very important that this is why the reconstructed government takes all the measures that every citizen will feel, measures to improve standards, increase economic growth and reduce unemployment. It is crucial that political stability be maintained in the country in the coming period, not because we fear elections, on the contrary, but because it is a prerequisite for economic development and foreign investment. In addition to significant budget savings, the reconstruction also gives us a more compact, more coherent cabinet than before, without party turmoil, without conflict of jurisdiction and certainly better coordination of related portfolios. So the new organisation, the new energy, will increase the efficiency of the government's work in general. We are aware that the policy we are implementing is not always popular, because it requires a lot of effort, a lot of denial, a lot of waiting, and the results are not seen right away, because we are working to achieve long-term goals. For every job's success, there's got to be a plan, to know exactly what to want, not experiment. We have a clear plan, not only for coming out of the crisis and economic development for 2011, but also for Serbia in 2020. We started from scratch, a lot of work has been done, but important tasks are only ahead of us, to end this year with EU candidate status. Also, we have a chance to resolve the historic conflict between Serbs and Albanians on KIM, in line with our state interests and in favour of both sides. So, they're ahead of us, I won't tell you the problems, we have a chance. It is necessary, of course, to be self-critical. We're aware we've made mistakes once. It could have been much better and much faster. So we figured out what was wrong and we're ready to change that. As the people say, experience gives guidance. I think our greatest advantage, compared to others, is this priceless experience, because while other games were watching in the stands, we were playing in the field. It is undeniable that we all want the best for Serbia, both the opposition and us in the ruling majority, but I fear that those who do not have our experience can be played, where we have had many difficulties, which we have overcome. That's why it's important that we play the game to the end, no matter how hard and hard it is. I am absolutely sure that great results are ahead of us because, for the sake of general interest, when we reconcile all the differences that hold us back and slow us down, it won't be difficult for us to pull Serbia forward faster, because we learned from Zoran Djindjic that when we are led by a strong idea, we skip two steps.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51719	Five minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51720	Mrs. Komic, I've reported in shortly before this stray work from the knowledge champions, the champions of friendship and friendship. Sir, you can't tell us how you have a strategic plan, but this isn't exactly the place to discuss a strategic plan. You did mention the 2020 strategy in your exposé, but we don't know anything about it. We don't know anything about our 2020 strategy, we don't know anything about our foreign policy, but that's why some African parliaments know more about foreign policy than we do about us. If I can, together in America Bush, Obama and McCain, discuss the US-based crisis support programme, if I can in every normal parliament in the world talk to the MPs, why are we the only country forced to listen to the Prime Minister who says this isn't the place where we can talk about the strategy? We want to talk about this strategy in order to make some of our proposals and then be spared the nonsense we hear as some kind of unfair criticism, since there are no arguments that can be answered to the questions that we have asked. Is there a crisis all over the world? Yes, it is. Is there a difference between us and this world? There is. Was the government in trouble? Yes, it is. What's the character of this problem? Is he political or personal? If it's personal, did you get past it? Well, you don't want the candidates you're proposing to mention. It's clear why. Because you can't take responsibility for them. By law, you oblige them to speak in the future as ministers who share the opinion of the government in which they are ministers. That's nonsense. We don't have a problem with political ideas, because so many times we've suggested some ideas and plans. If we talked about the future of helping the banking sector, we proposed it. Now you mention the Development Bank, the Development Fund worked very well. The Development Bank is definitely introducing some new rules into this kind of government business. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51721	Two minutes. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51722	Dear People's MP, it's not true that I said I didn't want to talk about the strategy, I wanted to talk about operational measures, I wanted to talk about the strategy. These measures here you've seen are strategic, but not operational. So, I've avoided getting into exposés with operational measures, the guy -- tomorrow I'm going to do that and that, but I'm going in with a strategy. We have a strategy, the 2020 strategy has been published, there's such a fat book, and whoever wants to see it can see it. I don't know anyone who doesn't know her. If you want to be a parliamentary group, I will be happy to send you the part that the Serbian government sees, we have, and I will invite you to talk, bring your economists. I'm pleased to open the door for anyone who wants to talk professionally. So I absolutely don't accept that we're autistic, we have an idea and we push forward. That's not true. Here, now I'm telling you from here that we're going to make a copy of that strategy and I'm going to invite you to a professional conversation. But a professional conversation of a type – whether it is a better Development Fund or a Development Bank, which you are now putting in place, is not a discussion for parliament. Because now I need to explain to you that the Development Fund has no capacity to provide state guarantees for export operations, and the Development Bank might have that. Secondly, what is the position of the Development Bank in our system, whether it's a bank in the classical banking system or not? So these are not the subject of parliament. For that reason, I'm telling you that we're going to discuss a strategy here, and you can go to my office whenever you want, and you or your economic team, talk about economic activities, including at the operational level to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51723	MPs Cedomir Jovanovic and Dragan Shormaz were reported. If you want a replica, you do not have the right to a replica. Please do not abuse the right to replication. The Prime Minister gave the answer. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the place: What is the replica? Every time you run a scandal in the Assembly. ) National MP, the right to replica means replicating what has been spoken by any speaker. In his response, the Prime Minister gave no cause for replication. You have no right to a replica. The Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic has a word, and after him the Messenger of the people Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we hear different programmes today, different assessments of the situation in Serbia, and all of this depends on which member of Parliament they belong. I notice that we do not do much of life itself, that almost no one here speaks frankly, especially you who represent authority and who have prepared some of your finely written homework. So it turns out that you removed everything that bothered you in this government, and by removing it, it's Mladjan Dinkic, number one. Number two, from the farm site, was removed from the farm, a lawyer was appointed. Number three, from the post of finance minister removed professor of university. Mr. Cvetkovic has now gained new energy, probably a "red bull," or whatever people drink to get new energy, so you will arrive, Mr. Cvetkovic, to lead the Ministry of Finance. You haven't even run the government yet, and now you'll be able to run the Treasury Department. I really can't believe you're ready to go into professional debates. You entered once with the SNS delegation that you called, which has presented to you the programme, which, unfortunately, you have not applied anything until now, and here you start through the media three days ago to push the Development Bank of Serbia. I wish you'd started it when we suggested you do it. You couldn't because there were many coalition partners in the government and the lack of a Development Bank so far was the basis for bribery and corruption. You know that very well. Where do local self-government hold state resources, where does the government of Serbia, various agencies and ministries hold? The banks that pay the most fees. These are very cheap funds, but when you borrow them again, then you come to the fact that this year alone, about 300m euros should be paid, as the IMF says is the final limit for Serbia's borrowing. Take a good look at how much paper you've done since 2008, 2009 and 2010 and what it is this year. How far did that go? 382 billion dinars. For three years you've watched the banks get rich, buying first bonds for 15 days, then the moon, then two months, at 60, and now a year and a half. Since there's no more funds to repay, you're just taking new loans with an ever-longer deadline and borrowing future generations. You won't be Prime Minister after the next election. You have owed your debt to those who have appointed you Prime Minister, not to us, not to the citizens of Serbia. You'll have to file a lot of bills for that. I'm just listening to an MP say some firms in New Market weren't allowed to go bankrupt. So wasn't Vlahovic's basic ideology economical that all companies went bankrupt? This is all within your governments, within 10 years of your mandates to rule Serbia, in the context of the sale of assets that have not been used for nothing, as part of a cry for wolves, and foxes have eaten meat. We're where we are today. You say there will be no choice before the time. I say, there will be a choice. You say -- now we've made a new plan and programme, a new government, in a year we'll raise Serbia. I say – you will no longer have the opportunity to spend state money in Serbia. You made a plan by 2020. Well, Tito made five-year plans, even though he knew he'd be in power while he was alive. You are now guaranteeing your members that for ten years you will rule Serbia according to the programme you have made. How many of us won't be alive in those ten years? How many citizens won't be alive waiting to live better? Are you looking at the KIM reports? Don't you give people's cuisines to the Serbs at KIM? What's your goal? To leave, to continue your fight without the population? What a fight that's gonna be, I don't know. We're negotiating with Albanians. It's supposed to be a negotiation. Where's the adopted strategy? Who set the strategy? What's there to talk about? What goals do we achieve? What questions have been asked? Whose consent does the head of the delegation have to establish something there, sign agreements, agree to something? Yours? If one man had confidence, there would be no democratic states. There would be no parliament. It would be the leader and the people. So the people broke down suffered in 10, 20 or 30 years, so they went to kill the leader. And the whole world says, "This is democracy." They're going to kill Gaddafi, kill this guy or that guy, and the world says it's democracy. You're here planning to be in power most of the time. Because you're the best. Says the other lady - the other one sits on the Styrofoam. What did you do in your life so you could talk about others? What did you do besides write a nice homework assignment, combed and came to parliament? You know how to criticize those who sit on the Styrofoam. (President: I beg you – polite treatment. I was talking about your guns after October 5th. You talk about Styrofoam funny, and we can't talk about the guns you've been breaking into institutions with. (President: People's Parliament, you can say whatever you want, especially at this session, but in respect of other MPs and without direct address. I can talk about what I want if you don't chair. If you're the chairman, then I'm the one who's got the dictionary and the strict frames and the frames. And I accept that. I'm just answering. The lady spoke of an invitation from the SNS to come to Belgrade, and you did not warn her not to comment on other people's actions. I'm talking about October 5th, when you took the guns, you warned me. (President: Please, People's Parliament, don't deceive the public. I warn you not to speak directly to the People's Messenger and to speak politely to other People's Messengers. You can see that by looking at the stenogram. I really ask you all together to make this session go by hard enough and hard enough, but without violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As far as SNS is concerned, you can't tell us that we didn't want to cooperate. You invited parliamentary groups to come to talk, there are two and a half years, to see how Serbia can get out of the crisis. We sent our best men. They just had coffee at your place, you washed your mouth, you said you talked to the opposition, and you didn't accept any suggestions. Then you said that Serbia is one stream, that there is a global economic crisis through the main rivers, and that Serbia is a stream that will not even catch it. You were ossions. You had a lot at your disposal at the time for sale. And those before you who say that they ruled beautifully, yes, they sold and ruled well. Now there's nothing left to sell. Now you have to work. Well, you're not capable of that. If we say it's not good to live in a country that takes out loans in the world to pay off pensions, you accuse us of canceling pensions. You've already suspended them because you don't have money for pensions today. You only have money if you impose an imposition in the form of new loans that are paid to pay off your pensions. Where's the money? You've been talking about pension funds for ten years. Where are they in Serbia today? What do pensioners expect pensions from today? From negotiations with the IMF. Don't they expect a new product? Or paid taxes and contributions? They don't expect it. In Serbia, anyone who wants to work must accept that it works in gray and you tolerate it because it is the only way to work. There wouldn't be any if you controlled it. Every kiosk makes you unreported people, like you used to be ten years ago. You said you couldn't let that happen in the state. What's going on today? What does Serbia look like today? You're talking about agriculture. How much money do you invest in agriculture? When people sell off a stock fund, it comes to you giving them subsidies. When you collect food prices on the world market, you remember that you exported cheaply and now you have to import expensively. Do you control the buyers? Why did the potatoes come together? What's next? Since it's tomorrow's bread? With good government measures, with good policy, with new employment. Where is he? Public enterprises you don't control at all. They're controlled by your coalition partners. I'm watching on TV this morning, president of the Serbian Tourist Federation, and I can see that my last name is familiar. From where? From the Boskovic family. Done. The ruler of one political party employs his entire family in public enterprises. She caught herself there too. Is that how you imagine this country? Does it exist because of certain people, to get caught and to get hired? It's manners. That's pressure and blackmail. Have you had the courage to tell others here that they're not their government parties and that you'd rather go to elections than let some of them stay in power? You didn't have the guts. It is worse that you were defeated by those who are with you in the coalition than by the opposition. You've been beaten by bad parties who won't let you work. Don't move anything on us. The situation has to change. With you, we know it's gonna get worse, and with us, believe me, it's gonna get better. If it doesn't get better, it'll be easier for you to change us than for us. We're not afraid that the new government will determine who was stealing, that the new government will determine who was taking the money, who was ruining who was selling, who was forbidding to come to the bidding, who was setting the starting prices, who made the bad contracts? We're not afraid of that. Which one of you is afraid of, let him say. Let the one who's been harassing Serbia for the past ten years. Who brought us down on our knees? Who attacked everything in Serbia? Who wanted to set all our standards, even if they were bad? You know that very well among yourselves. There's a lot of you completely clean, on a lot of good ideas. What's keeping you there, I don't know. But it won't be long. You're not defending yourself as one team at all, and you're bringing out what any of your ministers did here. We know. Why don't you praise other people's ministers, and you're in the same government? You see for yourself that it's no good, you have to defend your own. Serbia is at a turning point right now. And you come to your senses, or it won't be good. What does it mean to consult the people? Don't be stubborn with us, go with your people. You're just inciting and just putting on an even stronger fire. How can you not see that? Don't accuse us. Don't tell us to live well. Go down the street and ask how to live. Ask people who have children. You promised, Mr. President, when you formed the government, free treatment for those who are extremely poor, if I recall your words you used. I guarantee it's true, and you charge me if it isn't. Excuse me, who's extremely poor? What did that mean for you? You said – free schooling for advanced children, free treatment for the extremely poor. How could you predict the extremely poor? That you said: free treatment for all citizens, and all of us to endure some of it, and to understand. But for the extremely poor? As you today suggest, an even greater number of people will be covered by the social programme. We don't want that. We don't want folk cuisine. We don't want social programs. Give us a chance to work, to give every citizen of Serbia a chance. Not to be in some party and get a chance. Clean-ups in resolutions designed for individual political parties must be members of the political party. You've turned Serbia into a feed, all as many of you as there are, especially small parties. Whoever signed you up to report him to be yours, he sat down immediately for function. Who has gone out of Parliament as your messenger today in this shift? Where has he gone? To the desk? No, it's a public firm for the director. That's the way you do it. It's all there is to you. There's an Andric a nice song. Read it, how those who think of themselves, their children, and their servants go. I told you to read what you read, I didn't talk to anyone else. Mr. Cvetkovic, whatever someone tells you, whatever instruction someone gives you, you're a man of mature age. One day something must be behind you. Imagine if we remembered you as the man who was Prime Minister, he wasn't aware of it. We'd better remember you as Prime Minister of Honor. I think so. We'll find out if you've done anything that doesn't comply with the law. First you became Prime Minister, I don't think you've been President of the Government since you were Prime Minister, and we'll see, we'll find out about these privatisations how it all went. If you're clean, it's an honor. And those sugars, if it had to be for the euro, it had to be good for you. And if after that man made $10 million in that sugar shop, it's a great honor for you, and if he invited you, he bought the Bather and invited you to the Bather, it's an honor. Only if you didn't take some money, only if you didn't sin against this people, because at a time when it went so far, the people were poor. The people looked with longing at the closure of the factory, and some of you were rubbing hands for the percentage that was obtained by closing those factories. Today go through this adventure called Serbia and find me where it works. Mr. Krkobic, you expect pensions for the pensioners you represent here. From work, but not from credit. You're negotiating with the IMF at which it appreciates taking a pension loan, instead of saying - Prime Minister, I'm here to make a pension out of income, not out of borrowing, because it shoots, one day it stops and cracks. The car's leaving while they've got gas. When they don't have gas, they stop and shoot. You get out of the way, after the pensioners, you finish your term, all nice. Baba's lunch, what would you say in Bosnia, but it's not like that. It's not good, you're left behind by grandkids, you're left with other grandkids, to remember that from 2000 to 2010, someone sold out their country, that they brought in strangers who didn't invest or work in these factories, that after 10 years, workers are asking to cancel out the privatisation, so when they cancel you're not even written to translate it into the state. He's now selling parts, for which he sent a letter to the government to ask for it to be a state. He says I can't handle it anymore. For you there is energy, agriculture, to steal, banks, funds. Shut down one fund, open another, cover your tracks, so no one will ever catch you for what you've been doing. Well, someone told you, he just didn't mean himself. You have to lose the election and you know it very well, you're a mature man. There are politicians here who know you're gonna lose the election. I repeat, lose them with honor, so that you may return. Lose them better than yourself. The Socialists lost to themselves on October 5th, and since then there has been nothing since Serbia. They went down to that level today and there they are. Some of them are, let them be alive and well. That's what they want. There are 500 seats for board members in public enterprises. Fine, they're fostered. Please think carefully. I'm giving you this offer, since I'm no longer in touch with your president. You said you were responsible for a positive report from the European Commission that you expect in October. All right, you're responsible. We can say -- it should have been before, you didn't meet all the conditions, you lied about judicial reform. You lie all the time about that West. Here, we don't want those elections before you're beat in the bell in October. We want the elections in November, because in December it will all be official. And this EU should know, when it gives candidate status, to what period did the government, which said it wants Serbia to be an EU member, to what period was the power elected? Imagine, Mr Cvetkovic, in December Serbia gets candidate status, maybe start negotiations, and in March, the victory of the forces they say - we will not enter the EU. Why not, in this Serbia, anything is possible. What will the EU do? You'll see, and they're breaking their minds whether to talk to a government that has a four-year term or a three-month term with a government? If you're the government that's going to have a four-year term, you win. I'm making you win. Let's go compete and you win. It's all in your hands, all the ammunition, all the media, all the money. You've got everything. And you have one poor opposition party against you, which has only an idea, which only has a good program, which only has people that the people trust. There, that's our adjuts. We, of course, have against us both you and these others from the opposition, because their idea is to destroy the SNS, that something should happen to Tomislav Nikolic, that it should happen to Alexander Vukic. God forbid it happens to them, there's no party. It's pointless ideas. As far as we're concerned, we can't perform more correctly. No matter how you muddle us, no matter what you say about us in the media, we can't do it any more correctly. You don't even have that much correctness for us. Serbia is in danger, must find all its strengths. Don't have an opposition against you that will be hostile to you. I repeat the story from two days ago. Let us one day experience that opposition parties also vote for good law and that no one tells them that they have betrayed the opposition, and that no one tells you that you gave money, as the head of the ZES parliamentary group said every obstruction, and you know when these obstructions were and who did them, that every obstruction of the ZES paid by corrupting the SRS, because there is no one else. They just calmed you down two and a half years ago. Think carefully. And you're angry that I called your ministers or some of their associates, and you gentlemen are angry that I called you directly. One day there'll be a reverse situation. I'm going to listen to you criticize me like this, but I suppose I'll have arguments to answer. If I don't, I don't want to sit where you're sitting, Mr. Cvetkovic, because you're already getting some sleep, and I've been watching you yawn for two hours. Really, I'm a little embarrassed...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51725	Mr. Nikolic, I really ask you to take care of the findings that don't stand, one at a time. Two, to cultivate the dignity of this high house.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51726	I'm sorry, it's me, when a man puts his hand on his mouth and it's obvious that his mouth isn't closed, I'm interpreting it as yawning. I'm sorry if it's anything else, if he was setting up a fork. I think this was quite a yawn, I think. Here, I'm finishing up, so you won't look at me like I don't know what I'm looking at anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51727	The Prime Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51728	Dear People's MP, in your inspired presentation, you've considered a whole series of topics. I'd stick to the one that's tanging the exposés, or the future government, because I think you've also opened up some space for discussion and discussion. First of all, you mentioned our 20-20 plan, with the conclusion that it's not good to make a plan for some period when the government that makes it will not be there, but someone else will come, etc. I want to tell you that then we have a complete misunderstanding of what this is all about. So this isn't about any party plan or government plan, it's about this country's plan for which it's irrelevant who's going to implement it, it's just a matter of whether it's the best plan this country can implement. In this context, this 2020 plan did not make any government, did not make any party economists, but rather made a group of the best economists we have in this country, most of whom are not members of any party either belong or have views positive for one or the other. So, the plan that's here on the table that we're promoting, with which we want this country to make a significant step in some positive direction over the next ten years, is a plan that will help the state, not any party, however the authorities change in the future. I hope you don't have some party plan of yours that will replace this state plan and that, by being a party, it will have different not only horizons but also attitudes, so I want to express a great deal of disagreement against party plans and support the state plans that this country needs. Secondly, you mentioned a development bank in the context of the deposit issue being placed, so big interest is taken, etc. I really think this question is too professional for debate in parliament, but since you mentioned it, to explain that it has some context with taking money, I want to tell you that the development bank is not an institution that takes deposits. It is not an institution operating in the banking system, rather a special institution and it does not receive deposits in the way in which it works in the banking system. We've been working at the development bank for over a year. We have contacts with certain foreign development banks that give us their experience and do the physibilities of the study, and that's what we're going to get into establishing a development bank, not that someone just put a finger on the head so he said, "U, that's a great idea, now I'm going to do it." No, this idea is a year and more, and it's in a sense on some invisible public channel, very detailedly analysed, with the engagement of a lot of people, especially foreigners and foreign successful development banks, where we'll have completed a physibilities study in about three to four months, and then we'll be able to approach the realization. The third thing I wanted to say was, I was very surprised when you gave one finding that was about – you don't have the money to pay off your pensioners. I got the impression from that finding that you think I think the money's mine, so then I don't have the money. So it's absolutely not like that. I believe that this is the budget of this country, these citizens and that these citizens should be rich and I will never tell anyone who is in power – you have no money. On the contrary, the state is what it is, the budget is what it is, and whether it is good, small or large, we can talk about it, but in my view, it is a very important fact that experts from that area like, for example, the IMF, are behind the fact that the policy of economic, primarily fiscal, and the monetary that has been run in this country is correct, it has support, and in that way I don't want to think that it's something that's yours now, and this is ours, this is us, and this is you. So what I'm really saying is that there's money for pensions the way it's been budgeted, that this budget is well done and that you don't have money, we don't have, we absolutely need to get out of the discussion. The fourth thing I wanted to mention is also about your findings of the type that you imagine the state, we don't need a social programme, we want to give it a chance to work, etc. As politically interesting as this flossula may seem, it is essentially incorrect. So no one here, and especially the current set, wants to give up social access because they're going to offer someone a job. On the contrary, at the same time, the state will do both. It will create opportunities and encourage employment, but we will never give up the sociale, because even in the most developed countries there are vulnerable groups for any reason and it is precisely a state function to help them and not to allow them to starve or be left to themselves. In the end, actually for the last time, I want to say that the meeting that your people came to me to talk about the economy really went through in one conversation, I don't even remember any of the ideas I heard so I threw it away. If I'm wrong, now I invite you to give me the ideas I've rejected, with pleasure I'll take them into consideration in the same way as any of the political parties from the opposition and the positions, and even the non-partisan personalities. Whoever has any idea, my door is open to those ideas. In the end, I'm very sorry that you've come out with attitudes that some have been rubbing their hands for percent. As much as you really have such information that someone has done anything, I think you're an accomplice to not reporting it, and if you don't have it, then it's not right to make such claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51729	Thank you, Mr. President. Replies to Mr Nikolic's discussion, first Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51730	Madam President, if you'll excuse me, I've contacted you shortly before. I've reported in accordance with Articles 104 and 107. Rules of Procedure. Article 104, right to replica, because I am absolutely convinced that the full misread initiative of our parliamentary group is that. Mr. Cvetkovic, I cannot agree with your position that this is not a place where we can discuss strategy. We're, that's what doesn't understand part of the ruling coalition that's trying to defend you here against us who aren't attacking you but insisting on a Neapolitan turn, a whole series of initiatives launched in the Assembly. Last week, the Ministry Law was discussed, and we submitted the Law on the Ministry of Parliament in April 2009. In the drawers here in parliament is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, which we filed before you were re-trained by the Administration of Brussels. Here in the Assembly there is a law governing disturbances in the dairy market. The prerequisite for something like that, the prerequisite for a serious conversation, is primarily an analysis of the problems that we have found ourselves in, which we are talking about here today through the reconstruction of the government. What will the future health minister do, Mr. Stankovic? What's his project for the next year? What's the Minister of Agriculture project? Forty per cent of people in Serbia are gravitating towards the village. What's new about him? They can't speak here today. We expect you to say that, to go out and say – I ask for support for one policy, I am ready to accept suggestions and ideas, I want to solve problems in this society. The fact that some experts wrote a document that you call 2020, so who does? We didn't talk about it. Where are those new markets? What makes us more competitive? How are we gonna get back to the markets we lost? With a diaspora strategy? Well, that's how we close the open door again in both Montenegro and Bosnia and Croatia, both in Kosovo and Macedonia. That's the problem. (President: Time. So let's have a serious discussion and have a conversation in us.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51731	Mrs. Hope Kolundji, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51732	Dear Madam President, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 104, and I am truly appalled and I believe that everyone in this country is appalled by the way that MP Tomislav Nikolic addressed fellow Members of the People's Parliament to Smiljani. So I think it is inadmissible to speak in such a way to one MP to another MP of the people. I don't know what that giant human leaves behind, but what we remember him for is certainly not good, and I don't think there's one single right from his own experience and from his own merit to hold any lessons and disqualify anyone. And because yesterday he learned to read and share with us every day everything he read that day, I don't think he really deserves to go through this way without warning, in which he allows himself to address other MPs, and candidates or ministers in the government. So, his disqualifications, that someone because he's these or those professions, what he'll be able to do. It's a good thing Serbia's alive, so she doesn't need a undertaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51733	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my presentation, I never mentioned "the Duke of the Racans" at all, and I don't know why he had the need to mention the SRS. Yes, it's true, we were corrupted by the DS. Here, for example, I'm from the money that I got DS bought an apartment of 200 squares. Mr. Dragan Stevanovic spent out of the money he received from the DS in an election campaign in Arandelovac, 500 000 euros, and Mr. Nemanja Sarovic of the money he received from the DS paid a monthly of $7.5,000 to the former US ambassador to represent his character and work in the United States. I don't know what Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic will be remembered for, and, believe me, that's not what I'm burdening myself with. I know of what will remain to be remembered "the Duke of the Racans" that, several years before his political and old retirement, he became a political adult and in 2008, he betrayed the UN tribunal winner, Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51735	National MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51736	I am reporting to the Tomislav Nikolic, the Honorable President, about the replica of Mr Nikolic, because banning Tomislav Nikolic from lying means banning him from politics at all. Not everyone named Boskovic can be cousin of Danica Draskovic and that is another in a series of notorous lies, as I could say, but that would not be true if Ivan Nikolic, who is accused of war crimes, was cousin of Tomislav Nikolic. I'm sorry that politics in Serbia is run that way, where lies get so much support, and I'm sorry that there are people who can't even tell the truth out of trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51737	Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51738	How long do I have the right to respond to replicas now? I am reporting for the replica of Mr Cvetkovic, Mr Martinovic and Mr Jugovic. Now we're going in a row, and Mrs. Kolundjia. (President: You will all, in two minutes, consider the potential you have. Well, that's your relationship to me. Is that right? Do you mind? So, Mr. Cvetkovic made a terrible mistake when he said it was not a party programme, this 20-20, after reading the statement by Serbian President Boris Tadic, that it was his problem and that it was best supported by the DS. That's one thing. Another thing, Mr. Cvetkovic deceived the citizens when he said he didn't remember we told him something smart at that meeting. It's not about whether there were any smart words, it's about him if he remembers. But he'd have to remember, because we gave it to him in writing. So all of our proposals and all of what we thought Serbia could help, and he wouldn't accept. He then said he expects the new government to not change the programme he presented today, as it is a Serbian programme, not some political party. Then why would we come to power? Well, now these new ministers are coming to power to implement Mr. Cvetkovic's programme. The new government is bringing in a new program. What you didn't say October 5th -- no, no, the state programme is Slobodan Milosevic's programme, we just came as new people. How come you're accusing us now, like you accused me of acting anti-state the other night on some TV show? So, I'm acting anti-stately, so that after the election victory, the SNS will bring its programme and it'll give it trust in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Around the Development Bank, Serbia is taking loans from the German Development Bank. When we criticized and said – why don't we have a Development Bank? No one could give us the right answer. I wasn't saying there was going to be a deposit in it. I was talking about cheap assets, state property. What you can...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51739	Time. The People's Messenger Nenad Canak has his word. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Chanak. [[Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I have a replica of Mrs Kolundzija's speech.]] You no longer have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51740	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing the reconstruction of the government. The question of why this government is reconstructing is a question I don't have a big answer to. For a clear reason, if the government has worked well so far, then it would be perfectly logical that the winning team doesn't change. If she wasn't doing well, then it would be perfectly logical for the citizens to choose another government. However, I would not go after it if this reconstruction meant nothing more than an effective way of functioning the government so far. The LSV, as last time we voted, will vote for this government for a very obvious reason, and that is because this government does not currently have an alternative in Serbia. Any other way Serbia could go could be compared to climbing up the moving stairs in the wrong direction. It's perfectly logical that there are things that haven't been done. I must remind you that Mr Cvetkovic's government is still the government whose mandate Radovan Karadzic was in The Hague. Someone here mentioned the UN tribunal's winner. It's not Wimbledon, so there's a winner. You know, it's court, and there are defendants, defendants, those who are freed, those who are convicted, but there's no winner. There is a whole problem, which if someone thinks victory is being released in court, then that means that every trial is seen as a battle. I think there are far more important battles in this country -- a battle for a better standard of citizens, a battle for human rights, a battle for decentralisation as a basis for Serbia's democratisation. I am sorry that Mr. Prime Minister is not here, because I would like to remind him that with everything that has happened and for the red passport that has finally made it possible for the citizens of Serbia, especially the citizens of Vojvodina, because don't forget that the entire Vojvodina is practically a border zone, to travel without humiliating conditions and to wait for visas in neighbouring countries. It's because of who says that this government has done nothing, it's either malicious or it hasn't followed the work of this government. On the other hand, not enough has been done on the issue of return of property to local self-government and AP Vojvodina. Not enough has been done on the lustration issue, not done enough to create a police administration for Vojvodina, which would mean a different organisation of the MUP. I hope this now reformed government has more hearing for it. A team before the LSV has submitted and amendments to the Ministry of Finance have been adopted, to place as a obligation of the Ministry the regulation of property-legal relations and the return of property to the Autonomous province and local self-government, the amendment to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the State Administration and local self-government, in order to place the function and work of the Commission in charge of determining responsibility for human rights violations, the Lustration Commission. All in all, I won't be long anymore, times are hard, this government isn't what God knows, but it's the best we can have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51741	I thank and give my word to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Faith of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51742	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems clear to Mr Cvetkovic that this reconstructed government today will not have a majority in parliament. We hear all day that representatives of the ruling majority praise former members of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Now you're really asking the question -- why didn't you get a nice deal, so let's know if you're talking about this new government or the previous one, when you're so boasting, it's just not clear what's concrete? Mr. Cvetkovic also says in this exposé, what are the priorities of this government. Very interesting, man acts like he's slept through a winter dream for three years. We have been talking here for three years, since the day this government, which is all the problems, we have been following the government's work here in parliament, very clearly and openly speaking, we are also presenting our objections, but also the ruling majority and representatives of the government here in parliament insist that what they are doing is without error, that they have made no wrong move and then there is a reconstruction, three years after such ideal work and the ideal functioning of the government. There's really something wrong with that. If what the ruling majority says is true and what Mr. Cvetkovic says, that this current government has done well, then this reconstruction is a waste of time. If, again, this reconstruction is really necessary, then Mr Cvetkovic had to tell the MPs what one of those who are not scheduled for members of his cabinet today had to do badly. Is Diana Dragutinovic no longer a candidate for the minister just because, when Cvetkovic said we got out of the crisis, she said - not true, we are still in crisis? Is Mladjan Dinkic no longer in the government just because, when Cvetkovic said he had no money for public spending, to raise wages, he said he had, but that Cvetkovic didn't know how to find them? So is the essence of this reconstruction really part of the Law on Government that will only put the government in order in that part that they must not beat the public up differently from the Prime Minister or will the government really be put in order to finally do something, after three years, for the citizens of the Serbian state? Obviously, you're not quite ready for that. You say you'll reduce public spending. How are you going to reduce public spending when you haven't touched any agencies, when you haven't cut those fabulous salaries to directors and boards of public enterprises? You, or the state of Serbia, have about 110 agencies which are essentially para-state bodies doing ministry tasks, are para-state because they are not foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. They do these jobs for salaries that are much higher than the salaries of ministers and the salaries of other civil servants. Why? Because you've been setting up your party-deserved staff in the agencies. You won't even touch that for a living. There is, Mr. Cvetkovic, great consumption and there really was a possibility of saving, if you wanted to do something honestly in that field. You promise full commitment as soon as Serbia enters the EU. God forbid you continue on that path, as you have gone so far, and continue with that mantra to, like a tsunami, wipe everything in front of you in Serbia. You're doing it because of some illusion of yours about the EU. On behalf of the EU, Mr Cvetkovic, millions of people are not working in Serbia today. On behalf of the EU, there are all kinds of criminal privatisations that don't occur to you to shed light on. On behalf of the EU, millions of citizens in Serbia have nothing to eat, Mr Cvetkovic. On behalf of the EU, 700,000 children in Serbia do not have a third meal, Mr Cvetkovic. Please, don't take us that way again. Let us live in Serbia and Serbia, to live off what we have, but only unburdened by corruption and crime that adorns and your cabinet, Mr Cvetkovic. He says the other day, Mr Djelic, begs someone there in the EU to give us more money, the state of Serbia, now before we join the EU, and then let them give us less, once we become EU members. So let's fool the citizens of Serbia so they can complain less about going to the EU, and when that happens, you don't care. Luckily, it won't happen. Then what did they tell you? There's no Djelic to tell us what they told him. They told him that he didn't understand European integration so it's not just giving money, it's some kind of European, they say, values that must and must be paid, which are also costing the country that is falling into that disaster. That's what you don't want to tell the citizens of Serbia, but here you distract us with some phrases that have no value at all. You say, Mr Cvetkovic, you will preserve KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. How when you have indirectly recognised Kosovo as a republic several times already. First you, or Boris Tadic, texted Vuk Jeremic to annul the resolution and principles adopted here in this parliament and to change Serbia's position right before the meeting he went to to represent the views of the Republic of Serbia. Who did you send to negotiate with the Shiptars? A foreign minister's representative, because KIM is foreign to you? How can you not send a representative of the MUP or, as counterpart Martinovic said, the state administration or the KIM ministry? What's that for? A little bit, Mr. Cvetkovic, so there's a kick going on, how you're interpreting it in the media later. One ministry makes a map of Serbia without KIM. The second ministry makes a map of Serbia, Blace is placed in KIM. It's your kicks, your mistakes. You don't care about KIM, Mr. Cvetkovic. You don't know what the problem is. If you knew, you wouldn't let this be the way to conduct the debate and conduct the dialogue. This dialogue that you are conducting now speaks about you indirectly recognising the false state of Kosovo. Why isn't Mr. Stefanovic talking about status? What's not to talk about Resolution 1244? For you no longer exists, you have completely forgotten it, Mr. Cvetkovic, both you and the members of your cabinet. You're talking about developing the economy and improving the standard of living of its citizens, the economy of Serbia, and then its citizens. What kind of development are you talking about, Mr. Cvetkovic? Say one thing, one little thing you've done in three years, and someone will believe you might do more than that in this one more year, if these elections are only for a year or whenever they are, anyway. What did you do so we could trust you to do more? Mr Cvetkovic, 250,000 Serbian citizens have been out of work since you were prime minister. That's what you did. Then two days ago, Boris Tadic said that Serbia would blossom, he literally said -- where we would end if each of us worked ten minutes more a day. I ask him, on behalf of those millions who don't have a job, where do they do those ten more minutes? We, here, have where, and where do they work another ten minutes? So you act like you don't live in this country, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You know what would be best? It would be best if you'd done that Mr. President of the State has proposed to the Prime Minister Mr. Stankovic. It would be enough for two more resistors - the police and the judiciary. Here's why. Because everything was killed in Serbia, agriculture, industry, economy at all, health care, justice system, military. So, just you, Mr. Stankovic, as a pathologist, should have performed the autopsy on these corpses, to tell us what they died of, and then to have the minister of police determine who was responsible for the death of all segments of life in the state of Serbia, and then to have the Ministry of Justice sentence and judge those responsible, and then believe that Mr. Cvetkovic, with most members of his cabinet, would have gone straight to Zabel. You've worked so hard in the interest of the Serbian state. What did you do in the justice system? You boast here, Mrs Malovic is not here, several times, or every time she comes, we talk to her about it, she boasts about the reformed judiciary. What have you reformed? So, the problem with how jobless the judge is, how much he's getting, how little there are no courts in small places, etc., that's not the subject. Unfortunately, we can't do everything for a little while in the context of this subject, but you have judges who directly attack the constitutional order, Mr. Cvetkovic. Here, let me give you an example. Judges of the Appeals Court of Commerce Branislav Goravica, Djordje Jovanovic, Dragoslava Vukicevic, Judge of the Trade Court, earlier and now of business, Marina Tomic, directly hit the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia because they ruled that Tomislav Nikolic, on behalf of the SRS, could have raised credit and had the authority never to deliver to the Bank of Inteza, which gave the loan. So, how can a party raise a loan? There is a Party Act and funding that tells exactly where the parties can finance themselves. What does your judge care? They're here at that point, because I guess that's what you're comfortable with, protecting those who threaten to kneel on the Styrofoam. No, Mr. Cvetkovic, don't be afraid. The same dad's your boss, the same dad told them -- there's nothing out of the Styrofoam. You know very well, Mr. Cvetkovic, how many Vukic and Nikolic kneeled before the American and British embassies. Not on the Styrofoam, they were kneeling on corn until they opened the door, to convince them inside that they were willing to sell and betray state interests for the sake of their personal interests. Don't be afraid, Mr. Cvetkovic, you should have thought more seriously about this reconstruction, if you're already going into reconstruction. You really should have offered something to this people, not to keep cheating. Do not insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens. Just another sentence in favor of how much you represent democracy, you and your government. Here, today the SRS activists put on a checkpoint to collect signatures with a petition to release Vojislav Seselj from The Hague. The police and the municipal police have jioteralized, saying they have to pay for that place where they put that checkpoint. There, that's your authority, that's your government, that's your democracy. Do something in the interests of Serbian citizens, so that at least you don't feel ashamed and show up for the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51743	Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51744	Just to let those who still think they can count on me. I closed the frustration treatment office when I founded the SNS, as I move in the society of people who no longer need any advice of that kind, so please, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, that I do not speak to those who need you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51745	For the second time or for the third time, you insult the dignity of the messengers and this house. Please don't do this anymore. Of course you don't have the right to a replica, I'm just commenting on something that's a fact. [[The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic requests a replica.]] The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51746	This guy obviously imagined he was the prime minister, which he would never be. I didn't speak to him at all, I spoke to Mr Cvetkovic and Mr Cvetkovic, as he was already present at the US and British Embassy and watched Vukic and Nikolic kneel on corn in front of these embassies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51747	Please, Mrs. Radeta, you can't talk to a colleague like that. The word has Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51748	Well, look where it comes from when you have a double standard. So anyone can tell me anything they want. I'm just telling someone if he's done anything in life to remember him by or not, and I'm here to be condemned by Mrs. Kolundji that I'm the worst man in the world, and I'm also the man who just read one of his books yesterday, so here I am informing others. Just please, I don't need protection from this pick-up party, I just need to be a little more equal here with the others. If they tell me insults, keep quiet, and when I insult you, for in me is the Serb who does not give it to everyone, and especially those who do not insult me. I don't think the SRS gentlemen deserve to insult me. If anyone should insult me, I know who will. I have people close to me who can insult me. The one who's not close to me, don't let them come to the street, let them insult me, it's a place for the streets, for street insults. This joke isn't about that. If someone says I've been kneeling like a dog, it really doesn't make sense, not because of me, I've outdone them a long time ago, and I've outdone you a long time ago. Our party has defeated you all. I know it's a log in your eye. Hold on, it's the first defeat, you'll suffer a lot. I can't imagine you winning when you're like that, and you're nowhere to be found. What would you do to the people to win? There are many citizens of Serbia standing here, not giving elections so as not to see how many Serbian citizens stand by the SNS. You don't give elections so you don't see how few of you are left with this pointless idea of insulting anyone who thinks differently. I'm not insulting you because you think otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51749	Time! In our Woodland, they say, "You jump first, you say hop." I give my word to Professor Dragoljub Micunovic. Excuse me, Professor. First of all, it's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51750	In accordance with Article 27, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, only one sentence, and of course concerns the application of the Rules of Procedure. I thought I could get a replica, but I think I'll absolutely fit my debate into Article 27 and just draw attention to how still Serbian citizens vote for parties whose programme is written in Serbian, so those whose programme is in English can hardly count on winning any elections. If he wins eventually, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, then he will only be able to be my colleague, because he is not my colleague now, since he stole the mandate of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51751	Professor Dragoljub Micunovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51752	Madam President, that's what I'm talking about, because it's my turn in parliaments to talk to a speaker or a speaker, and not to argue with each other, and I've been thinking whether or not I should answer at all, because the thing is going in the other direction than the one I wanted to at least direct the debate. The ancient Greeks were careful not to get involved in the battle of the gods, which they called giants, so when giants crash, there are ordinary people who get hurt. As this House is now developing this kind of struggle, I thought it was best if I didn't get involved in it. However, the obligations arising from the fact that I am an MP with the longest internship in this House, I am obliged to say something on such occasions. Of course, what I wanted to say is, neither the government's praise nor the government's sting, but one attempt to shed light on the situation we're in right now, if it's any use to us at all. We're in what's-his-name. It's been a transition for 20 years, and sometimes she's been stiff, so she jumps a little bit, moves. But transition has two forms. One is institutional. This is to set relations between individual elements of the government or certain institutions, the relationship between parliament, government, independent judiciary, regulatory bodies, the position of the press, etc. These things are usually dealt with by laws. And now we've passed a lot of these laws and those who claim that it's never been worse or that there's nothing wrong here, etc., a little effort to take it into themselves, so they'll see that we've passed a lot of laws that institutionally transform this society. They transformed him, above all, into certain positions that had responsibilities, both the government and parliament, and the judiciary and the press. So, all that is required in European and world standards, it's done. To claim that there is now no democracy in this society seems extremely unconvincing. But there is another problem, we did it in the economy, privatized businesses, much has been done and changed in relation to the country 20 years ago. There's one thing that goes much slower, which is the transformation of value systems or what would be called a valuable transition. It's the old truth that tradition, old collective habits, and history push the moderns and don't let them go as fast as they'd like. What exactly does that valuable transformation mean? That means we have a new relationship to human rights. What does that mean? It means that in every living being we see the brightest thing and that it must be respected above all other interests, because nothing is more general than man, as man. The other thing is, we need to see how our relationship to work is as value; then, according to truth as value. He's lying so much that no modernist is able to figure out what's true or what happened 10 or 20 years ago, let alone our mythology of a distant history. Every sense of responsibility to the truth is lost. It's a similar matter of justice. There is no degree of solidarity that is necessary. So, the problem of gender equality. We've passed laws, and every third young woman is in the so-called. Happy marriages, then the problem of discrimination. How discriminated is the world, despite all the good laws that have been passed? We've institutionally set up some things, something's progressed. Some time ago, it could not be imagined that there would be a right child, equality of women, right of homosexual orientation, rights of disabled people, etc. It's all kind of set up and moving forward, but, unfortunately, it's slow. The main problem of this society is the rule of law crisis. That's the problem we need to meet. When I try to explain to strangers the law on the legalization of illegally raised objects, and then still suspending the law on the legalization of illegal objects, they can't understand it, it's some nonsensical we're meeting with. Yet, a million of our citizens built a house or anything they needed, a barn, a goddam fairies, where they had no rights. So, it's against the law. There are excuses for the historical, however you wish, but our law is not a great sanctity, which is a matter of collective behavior. I'm talking about it because it's the main source, the generator of every corruption in society. There's two halves, there's that corrupting clerk, a thief who's gonna take 100 euros, but there's a citizen who won't wait for a solution when he tells him a month, and he says he can do it tomorrow, but he can do it for 100 euros, so he pays him. So he doesn't believe in the right or the one who's looking across the line, to bribe someone to get something the law doesn't give him, like he doesn't believe in the law, and that he who abuses him will be punished. It's a central question on whom we depend on the functioning of institutions, businesses, whatever you want. I'm talking about this so we know that all things don't depend on the government, but there are very many factors that affect what happens. We have one task, we have been moving with it for a long time, and that is EU membership. Among other things, it is no desire for free money or any paradise but, above all, the desire to arrange our lives, with forced or semi-violent respect for certain standards, above all law, respect for regulations. That's the progress. When we were admitted to the Council of Europe, then I said one sentence, I thought it sounded nice, and I said that I was looking forward to our obligations in the Council of Europe more than our privileges as members. So there are things that, unfortunately, must come and not always with ease or our own desire. The events in history are influenced by international events, influenced by our events, influenced by what is happening in parliament, what is happening in the parties, what is happening in the depths of society. This mixture produces some results that are not satisfactory. Unfortunately, we cannot go faster than we are going, not just because of the government, which may be able to speed things up, but because of the whole and international consolidation, which we are in some way hampered, there are problems that are standing around, so they are being delayed or not seen: the problem of resolving Kosovo's status, the problem of co-operation with The Hague tribunal and a number of other things. That's what's holding us back so we can go into solving the most important issues, and these are human rights issues here and human living standards and what's once called a better life. That's what we're supposed to do. I believed we'd reach a consensus today. I've watched, I can say, very polite and constructive behavior of the good part of the opposition in many things. Many of the amendments that have been made here with the best intentions have been done. We have one goal, there will be some dates when our EU bid will be discussed. It would be good if we were already talking about patriotism as a care for the general good, that the government would include the opposition on its part in these talks, in one respect of the dialogue, and, on the other hand, that we all do what we can not disturb one normal flow of things until that moment, which is half a year. There's no telling what's going on, but we can do ourselves a lot of damage. Now I'd say a few things besides what they were already saying about the government, and about the good stuff, and about some regulations and some style that I didn't always like. The great French writer and Senator Francis loved the political satire, and he has one of his famous sayings – difficult for a country that has ambitious ministers. He also cited the example of Napoleon, who ruined them with great ambitions, etc. I want to say this -- it's nice to have ambitions, but no minister in the government can have his own project, but only the Government project. That's the key question. This is where I treat the members of my party critically and others, everyone who is in government, that in this sense any soloisation or attempt to highlight my project, exclusively some of its prestige, is not well and damages the harmony and work of the government. That is why the government, this reconstructed government of Prime Minister Cvetkovic, will have as much success as it will have strength, desire, authority, that any attempt to solify or jump out of the government's mission programme. In this regard, we parliamentarians should give him full support. One more thing, as a message to the ministers, of course the ministers can replace and propose their shift as prime minister, but we can also propose the replacement of ministers. So let's not transfer everything to the government. And we, as Parliament, are responsible for what the government is, as we criticise, as far as we suggest, how good suggestions we give, depends on the quality of government's work as well. We have one more pain that is old and I must say that I am most concerned about the Kosovo issue of this re-seeking of Vuk Brankovic. As soon as they start having a traitor, just looking for who they're going to be, and we know who the biggest defenders of Kosovo are, then there's something starting to suspect me, that this thing doesn't look so good, as soon as the traitor of this sacred thing is already wanted in advance. But history doesn't have one factor. In the darkest dictatorships, too, there are a lot of things affecting our lives, and how things will move around Kosovo, both with Kosovo and Europe, and with the world, because sometimes, people have been fighting the Kosovo Battle for 10 years, and then they find themselves winning the Colombian Battle. You never know what comes out of one battle and what it turns into in the end. That's why I'm suggesting that at least in that thing, I was already hoping that we were done with that story, so let's not let anyone here seem to be a patriot and others aren't. Patriotic, non-patriotic forces, that's even funny. We are members of a political community. It's supposed to and must be assumed that we all love her and wish her well together. Any disqualification disqualifies anyone who does so, with these medals that he puts on his own lapel. Let someone else hang the medal for you, not you yourself. That's why I'd like to remove that patriotic suspicion or over-indulgence or anything that has so far characterized our parliamentary life. Of course, we have one problem that is global. It's a crisis problem. I'd like to say a few words about that. Our government has hesitated between a neoliberal concept of society, and now, I welcome it, that the crisis has taken such a wave and that so many people bring to the threshold of existence, and that in such situations no ideal economy, which regulates itself, without the help of the state, is sufficient. It's a key and important question. Today we have the fact that despite the global crisis today, the number of billionaires in the world has tripled, but also the number of unemployed. Such an order cannot survive, for it is not just. No matter what economic efficiency we can talk about, that crucial solidarity that we are members of one community, it must survive, it must exist. It doesn't mean any commanding economy, determining everyone equally, common punishment and all those stories that were related to it, but it's unwarranted that there are suddenly so many billionaires. Based on what? What financial speculation, what's going on, and that's the crisis that's put the whole world in misery? Russia suddenly, a country with great difficulties, Moscow has the largest number of billionaires in the world. A country where millions of people were killed in the name of the idea of equality, egalitarianism, etc. Can you handle it? I mean, we make sure this government takes care of it, too. Of course, we have to have something to share, and it's quite certain that in no way should we disable or damage, etc., any investment, any motivation to produce more, but then it means more respect for the right to have less corruption, less unfair distributions, much less abuses, and so we will somehow manage to reach other peoples. This is one of my appeals that, although it is very interesting to be valuable to each other, to fight, to jump, etc., I do not like to offend, but it is normal for Parliament to have its own life, but we realize that we have half a year to show whether we are able to do something useful or not. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51753	Thank you, Professor Micunovic. I give my word to the MP Ivan Andric. (Milos Aligrudic, from the place: Replica. ) An example of intellectual, final parliamentary and correct exposure. (Milos Aligrudić, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51754	Art. 27th and 107th. Member of 107, with regard to the exposition of the predecessors, who insults the dignity of the MPs, in particular one parliamentary group. Because in public, thanks to one show, which I popularly call "invented B 92", one false impression was that the DSS was supposed to be some mob organization that was biting and barking around Kolubara as a public enterprise, and that's what he had in mind when he compared so-called. The Kosovo battle and the Colubar battle. That's what he was talking about for a while. That's offensive, and you should have warned him about it, because it's a dirty political campaign, nothing else. The second thing, Article 27, concerns you. If you're having a session, take her straight to everyone in the same way. I asked for a replica, I didn't insist on talking about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. That's what you made me do.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51755	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied, in the day of the vote, the Assembly will declare the injury to the Rules of Procedure. I give my word to the MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51756	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that Mr. Micunovic spoke before me, because I think he gave a necessary political context to this reconstruction that was missing in the exposé, the written exposé of Mirko Cvetkovic, no matter who wrote it. Right, you've touched the essence, but I can only agree on that point and your analysis in your guess. Less or more, everything else you said, unfortunately or fortunately, is denying you alive. It is true that this is a crucial year for Serbia. It is true that October 12th is the day in which the European Commission should propose to the EU Council of Ministers to give Serbia candidate status for EU member. And that's true. And it's true that if we miss it this year, maybe it won't be there next year, because this close history taught us once you miss something doesn't mean, by automation, that it's standing in front of you and waiting for you. The real question is -- can we, the MPs sitting here, trust these people standing here that will fulfill this plan? Look at each of you and let us know if what has been happening over the past three weeks, ever since the idea of a government reconstruction has been announced, to this day assures us at any point that this reconstructed new government is possible, I will remind you of a lot of new faces, full of energy, that this government has implemented some plan that hasn't even been delivered to us and that it will get candidate status for this country in October this year or at the end of the year. There's that difference. I will be very open, as someone who is involved in European integration through congregation work. Today I'm telling you it's impossible for them to do it. That's why I'm voting against this government, and that's why I think it's time for the election. Whatever monster symbolically called, as Mr. Canak said symbolically goes the stairs in the wrong direction, whatever comes, it certainly comes and everything the ruling majority of the carried DS has done in the last three years has precisely to bring that monster to power. It's about the concept of human rights as the basic postulate of democracy. I agree. What about Sandzak? What happened out there? Elections were held, so since you didn't like the winner in the national council elections, your minister who is no longer a minister almost started a war. Is that democracy? No solid rule has been established, just a convenient position for someone from the ruling majority to decide who is right, who is wrong, who needs what to do, who doesn't need what to do, and that's neither democratic nor European. The state of public enterprises, the ninth point of economic policy, the change after three years with our prime minister is a reform of public enterprises that implies the abolition of monopoly, the introduction of professional leadership and the reduction of subsidies. How can we believe after three years that no more coalition contracts will divide public enterprises? How do we believe that? Here is no problem with what is said or is not just about it, the problem is much bigger. What's said, as polite as it is to a beautiful dictionary, eloquently, however you like, however many times in your conducting media, that doesn't make our lives that way. Mr. Micunovicu, we do not live in European Serbia, they live. The government lives in its small environment that it characterizes so that no one can comment on it anymore. No more comment. Now the minister who disagrees, because Mladjan Dinkic said something, now no one will be able to say anything because it is against the law. We must be interested in the truth, not your unity. What we, citizens, care about your unity, we're interested in what's going on. What is this provision that makes it impossible for someone to say unless they agree with the government's views or the dominant ruling position in the government? As far as the media is concerned, I can talk a lot more about why I don't think this is a European government, but it seems to me that the ruling coalition has tried, following Dinkic's exorcision from the government, that it has had some vision that it will make one small, efficient government that will fill four or five things, among other things, gain candidacy. Unfortunately, I think the government gave up on it during the process, that there was no political force, no desire, and that the government has now decided not one different concept now. The first concept is to completely ignore reality. We are the only country in the world in which the prime minister did not explain amendments to the Government Act, the only one in history, but sent, against the law, a minister in resignation. It was another step towards Serbia's European path. Two, I've decided, I'm not sure you're that powerful for repression, but to wish you wouldn't allow anyone, except your favorite opposition, to appear in the media, that desire is quite clear with you and you are actively implementing each day. Don't fold your shoulders. I think it's unserious to talk here without talking about the influence of DS on the media, about the influence on the media that says, 20,000 people of LDP, so it can't be a second on television, and a few thousand people or 100,000, it doesn't matter, SNS can go 17 minutes in the diary. And then you tell us: do not criticize us because they will come to power. We don't criticise you, but we won't even shut up. We tell you, you made them yourself. That's your coalition partner. When the SNS is making a rally in non-democratic Serbia, it goes to RTS the day before and has a special show Saturday night. Who else has that? Who's got the other one? That's what DS is doing and only DS is operating the media. Whether it's institutional or not, I don't care. The one doing this has the support of Serbia's majority party, and it is used for this. There's no Europe here. Europe has become only an excuse for some people to function for another 12 months until the mandate expires. The post will not put Serbia in a position to be a candidate for membership, but Serbian citizens, as it has turned them for three years, will continue to turn against EU ideas. At the beginning of your mandate, and this is the data, the EU's support in Serbia was over 70%, today it's about 50%. Whose responsibility is that? Is that the responsibility of the opposition? That's the information nobody's saying, not to mention the average salary. Today, it is only in Serbia in the region smaller than a year ago. The crisis is gone. We travel, I say hello. Visas have been lifted. Any citizen of this country can leave. There's no crisis. And when it existed, you declared it a chance and claimed nothing could happen to us, but then you saw in it an excuse for your incompetence. Today you keep saying, when you don't know what you're going to say, whether it's a crisis or don't attack us because we're going to miss the chance to join the EU: Gentlemen dear, whatever personal feelings you have towards you, you won't bring us another step closer to the EU. That was your maximum. Now the only question is how will this situation fall apart and will you bring with you into that hole, which you will fall into, and the idea of Serbia's Europeanisation, or will you let this idea continue to live, not to share its political destiny with you. It's up to you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51757	Mrs. Hope Kolundji, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51758	Madam President, it is true that the DS is building a society where the media will be independent. The proof that this is so is that DS is most often, most strongly criticised by all the media in this country. So the call and the accusation that DS controls any media is unfounded if you just take into account the fact that the media today looks, the ones they are most concerned with and the ones they are most strict and critical of. I really think that the issue of support among citizens for the idea of the EU and the issue of citizens' impatience, but if you are accusing us here because we in parliament have increased significant support for the idea of the EU, then we accept this accusation as our own fault, believing it was important to increase that support.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51759	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51760	I don't know why you lie to Serbia about SNS. What do you have to support and help? What do you have to attack and mention the SNS? God forbid you're such a fan of the DS, to see him shoot skin on his back, and we take over public enterprises in Belgrade. Is it okay if we take the roads of Belgrade, then the pharmacy and still here to attack the DS? Be clean. Have nothing to do with the government, don't be financed in any way, don't be in public enterprises. (President: Do not address the MP, only the parliament. No, I did it in a portable sense. He who co-operates with power cannot use power to co-operate with the opposition party, for which there is no single evidence. The SNS does not co-operate with DS to allow DS to remain in power, but we work with the whole of Serbia and try to maintain peace, stop what is right and what you know is right. Mr. Andric, we're not a monster. Please apologize to the SNS, when she didn't already know Mrs. President to stop you from doing this. There is no political party that is parliamentary and which is a monster. We're not even a monster for you. You could say -- here's a monster for us and say that you don't agree with our ideas, but if you say unpunished that we're a monster, I'd ask you to read Vujaklia, maybe it'll convince you that you don't use that word anymore when you refer it to others.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51761	National MP Nemanja Sarovic. Would you like a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51762	Replication of Mr Nikolic's exposure, which has been for a long time... (President: No, Mr Nikolic did not mention you now. ) Yes, he mentioned the SRS, ma'am, for joining the boards, they also printed a flyer, and that is something that Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have been misleading Serbian citizens for a long time. If you're talking, Mr. Nikolic, about who's being funded and who's being shot by the skin, as you say, in love with DS, I don't know if it broke the skin of Alexander Vukic or justice, when you took 20 million dinars from the city budget in two years. Is that the love you're talking about? If you're talking about boards of directors, Mr. Nikolic, you're attacking the SRS, you're saying that we've entered some kind of power and taken over that or this public enterprise. We didn't take any. We've got one member in every public firm. That, Mr. Nikolic, is the democratic principle that you once followed while you were in the U.S.S. I remind you that in Zemun, the SRS has also enabled all parties who have crossed the censorship, proportionate to the number of mandates won, to participate and manage the supervisory boards. You can't ask to be part of that system, because, Mr. Nikolic, you haven't been to the election at all. You stole the mandates after the election, changed the ideology after the election, and there is simply no basis for you to become a member of any board of directors or supervisors. You, Mr. Nikolic, like some opposition from Milosevic's time, who suffered terrible problems, shot their skin, but they went out year after year with growing personal belongings. Explain how your skin shoots, so one year you build a castle in Bajcetina, so Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic has paved it for you... . President Time, you have no more words. National MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51763	Excuse me, Mr. Nikolic. I really thought it was clear from my presentation that I didn't think you were a monster. I used it as if someone was scaring us to you. But I apologize, if that's possible. It's possible that I was wrong in that heat. I can't think of a party that's parliamentary or it'll be parliamentary to be a monster. Also, I don't think it particularly because I think you're the same as DS, I just don't see any problem with that. I think the problem with that should be with citizens who can believe that if someone else comes and just takes these places here in these benches that it'll be better. It won't get any better. Just by not criticising those reforms that DS is not doing, but by doing something on the side, it seems to me that I see this similarity. I'm sorry if I'm even getting into the content of co-operation between you and DS, whether it leads to her disappearance or not, it's not my intention. Of course, everyone's for themselves. What I wanted, Mrs. Kolundjia, and I'm sorry she came out, is really amazing and very politically naively trying to convince us that DS is not managing the media. I'm telling you, there is no man in this room who can believe it. If that's really a way to defend yourself, it's similar to a defense to what, without the intention of offending, when an Noah attacks, he puts his head in the sand. It is not so and you are wrong, the DS manages more or less of all the media in this country. That's why it's time to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51764	MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51765	Madam President, I'm just asking that when you warn me if I speak to someone myself, it's also a measure for someone who talks to me. Especially when I'm talking to the ones I don't notice. So, so many lies to say about me, and you keep your mouth shut and nod, or something like soap to you, you don't need to be pleased. This is me on target now, maybe another month and two, so they'll come back to you. You know how they know how to tell you and how they know how to tell people in the DS. It's just, it's a lifestyle. Either Tomislav Nikolic will be the target or I don't know what anyone's name is. SNS policy may be bothering all other parties in this room, except for New Serbia, but it's not my fault. I don't like it when someone beats us either, but we squeeze our teeth, we work harder and better. That is what I suggest you do – work harder and better. Work harder and more honestly, so the people will love you. Or, what now, are we the same as the Democrats? So who's gonna win? LDP and SRS? And that's where Serbia will move forward. Then we'll all move to Vranje and charge travel expenses. It really doesn't make sense. Think about it a little bit. I can handle anything. What I've been through in my life, it's pointless that I can't take it. Who was trying to destroy me, what can they do? What do they deserve to destroy me? Trust me, ever since they started attacking me, these roarers have been coming forward and this bullulment, the SNS, is getting stronger. Look, if you're gonna let that happen, for us to strengthen, then there's something going on in the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51766	I ask all MPs not to address each other but to Parliament. I give my word to Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz. Your task force has three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51767	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, what is being reconstructed. It is usually reconstructed and, not usually, but rather a rule, something that is bad, damaged, and even dangerous to the lives and health of people. In this case, the government is reconstructed. It's obvious that this government was bad. I have been saying this since October 2008, even saying that it is the most incompetent and worst government in Serbia's history, not just in the last 20 years of parliamentaryism since World War II. Why is it reconstructed? Because you're nervous. You're nervous because your third year of office is ending. As an experienced parliamentarian, Mr Micunovic gave us a lecture here, but I'm surprised he didn't say that. It's very well known everywhere in the world that every government is at an end of the third year, and I'm saying that because I have some other experience from earlier times, you know and which, you know, is always the party that is in power, and especially the pregnant one, and that government, in a nervous state, especially at the end of the third year of office. The term of office is running out, and it's going into the election year. In this case, nothing has been done and nothing has been done in front of the citizens. Then the reconstructions are invented, where energy and mining will be divided because of a coalition agreement, where science, and now full university, will be given education, where trade and agriculture will be combined, talk about the EU, and all EU members have an independent agriculture ministry, without connecting with anything else and which leads to special attention on agriculture. What did you tell us here, Mr. President? Did you say clearly that wages and pensions will no longer be the lowest in Europe and the region? Did you say -- they've dropped more than 100 euros, salaries since you've been in power, and 40 euros in pensions, so, in real real terms, compared to what they were at the time you took over? Will there be less inflation? Will unemployment be reduced as well? You said here, here, it clearly says - increasing employment through new forms of incentives for job creation. Who's gonna take care of that? Mr. Ziric. Well, I'm not sure when I hear Mr. Dinkic say he can rule from the shadows as much as Mr. Tadic, that Mr. Ciric will do anything other than Mr. Dinkic, when he was his secretary of state, and now you're putting him as minister, so now you're going to change something. You did not say whether the bread "sava" will collect or not to 70 dinars, whether you will respond, and the Croatian government has already responded - to an increase in oil prices before (President: Weather, Mr. Shormaz). Finish your sentence, please. You didn't say that. It's not gonna happen. You lose the election anyway, whenever it's held.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51768	National MP Nemanja Sarovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if by any chance you thought the government would work better after the reconstruction, I'm sure it won't, and I'll show you some concrete examples. It should be recalled that some ten days ago we discussed amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction and then the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed that the National Assembly adopt a law on which the deadline for the reduction of the legalisation fee would be 31 June 2011, although June has 30 days. It is clear from this proposal to elect new members of the government, where Mr Cvetkovic proposes new members of the government, but calls for not the Law on Government that we adopted a few days ago and which came into force on the same day, but calls for the previous law. You, Mr. Cvetkovic, had to call on these last changes and additions. They, I checked it out for you, went out in "The Official Messenger" No. 16/10, which came out a few days ago, and you just called the Government Act with the last changes in 2008, when you formed that first cabinet of yours. Of course, we didn't expect anything better from you, but, Mr. Cvetkovic, you were obliged to do it first, before you told us these new ones again, i.e. old, priorities to report on what the government did for the past three years, and it had to be some starting point. To tell us what you did in the judiciary, to answer how many judges there are in Serbia today, to tell us what you did in the area of the fight against crime, to tell us why you didn't solve those murders you claimed to solve, where the killers are and if you discovered the murderers of Ranko Panic, did you find the murderers of Slavko Curuvija, did you find the murderers of Milan Pantic, did you solve any of the crimes you promised to solve? You also remember the political background of the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic every year before the anniversary of his death, so use it to attack the DSS a little bit. Answer us today - why did you keep your mouth shut last year and why didn't you do anything about it? Not because you will find the responsibility of the SRS, which you first accused of political responsibility, that is to say the political background of the assassination of Djindjic, or the DSS, but because you are not interested in it, you are not interested in it except in the election campaign and you are not interested because you would probably be interested in the paths if you were to investigate it to many who are then and perhaps now sitting in the Government of the RS. You have not responded to what you have done with the economy in Serbia for the past three years and what about the better lives of the citizens you have promised, and now you promise even more than before. You used to promise -- it'll be better in a year, for two, and now you say in an exposé -- a better life for all citizens today and right now. Do you think any of the citizens of Serbia today and immediately, when you said it a few hours ago, felt any improvement? I really don't think so. You haven't even answered what happened to the education, whether you're satisfied with the effect of Mr. Obradovic, so now you've added another part of the other ministry to him, or now he'll also be in charge of science. You did not even tell us whether you were satisfied with the effect of Tomica Milosavljevic in the field of health, but now you suggested that the health minister be a man who is both morally and politically served, and what is worst, you suggested pathologist for the health minister, as if health care did not require the right to reform, as if no improvement was needed, but an autopsy was needed. I can't imagine anything worse than a pathologist as a health minister, except perhaps a undertaker like the Prime Minister. Before this session, you yourself made numerous criticisms at the expense of the Minister and at the expense of the government itself, but by reading your exposés, it simply could not be seen in the exposé, everything goes to praise. Use very interesting terms, so you say it is an honor to lead the government, that it has consistently implemented reforms in all segments made an excellent and essential step towards full membership in the EU. You say – a key step towards improving good neighbourly relations, you will be consciously committed to preserving KIM within borders, etc. You owe us an answer: did this government need a reconstruction? If so, why are those reasons? Not so long ago, you said a winning team shouldn't be changed. Now you're saying that no minister has been replaced by what he's been doing, so it turns out that you government that's been doing great as an assembly, individual ministers have been doing great, and yet you're still going for reconstruction. It's something no one can explain. There's, of course, a lot of nonsense here. One of those, which may have bothered me the most, you say – full EU membership as a historic goal. Since when is this EU membership the historic goal of Serbian and Serbian citizens? From the Kosovo color, from the First World War, from the Balkan wars. Since when is that a historic goal? I guess the historic goal of the Serbian people is to create a single Serbian state that will cover all Serbian countries where the Serb people are majority, and RSK, and Republika Srpska, and Montenegro, and Hercegovina and Serbia are comprehensive. You're talking about the EU, that's the first priority. You boasted that you responded in record time to the EU questionnaire, but you did not tell us what you said, what you said. How many citizens does the Republic of Serbia have? What's its surface? Have you considered all Serbia or have you considered only central Serbia, without KIM territory? If the answer refers only to central Serbia, then you can no longer talk about how you will never recognise Kosovo's independence, because you essentially acknowledge and stand in the EU's lobby and ask for reception for only one part of the Republic of Serbia. The second thing, you say -- the government will also, in future, knowingly, responsibly and devotedly be committed to the preservation of KIM within Serbia. What does it mean to be conscious of being dedicated? Have you been unwittingly consecrated so far? Can anyone else, except consciously, be committed to something, with the exception of individuals who participated for 18 years without their own self and without their head in politics, and then after 18 years he found it? Of course, you haven't even answered our question whether you will finally have authority under this new law. You put great nonsense into the Government Act and forgot to call today. One of the provisions is that the minister and members of the government, state secretaries and others are obliged to express and represent the government's views in public statements and performances in public. What, Mr. Cvetkovic, is the government's position on reconstruction? I guess that's the president's position. You're like the government. You sit there, you stay out of your business, you're deep down who knows what, and where are your ministers? Where are your vice presidents? Do they today express the government's position? You haven't even managed to bring together the Prime Ministers and Vice Presidents for a few hours today. I'm sure you don't even know where they are. They certainly didn't have anything more important and smarter to do today. You didn't explain what was more important a few days ago when you proposed the Government Act and the Ministry Act here. Where were you? Were you getting ready for this exposé or were you doing something else? You say - information about the government's work cannot be given contrary to the Rules of Procedure. You've legally prescribed that government members and others who are in the environment, so they can hear something, can't rat on the media and talk about friends about what's going on in the government. Are these, Mr. Cvetkovic, the European standards you are referring to? Others have largely failed to talk about individual solutions, and I do not want to miss that opportunity and I want to hear what individuals deserve, who were previously in the government, to find themselves here today and what Mrs Malovic deserved. You say - there will be a smaller government now, and the Deputy Prime Minister will be a minister, and he has been Minister Dacic until today. Turns out it was illegal. So you say -- now the Prime Minister will be the finance minister, but you still have people in the government who don't do anything. Sulejman Ugljanin is a portfolio-free minister, the minister in charge of nothing, and still sits in government. Let's hear what his accomplishment is for the past three years? Let's see what Mr. Krkobibic's achievement is, except he sits patiently here today, but what else is his achievement? We could go from man to man like this, see what the merits of Oliver Dulic, who passed a law that proved to be inadmissible, and I'm talking about the Law on Spatial Planning, which made it impossible to issue building permits, which did not pass legalization as promised, and now you're adding mining to it. Let's hear about the principle by which you formed this government? Then you say it takes new energy. Who will bring this new energy to the government? Who? Will it be Mr. Suleyman Ugljanin, who has preserved all his energy in the past three years? Will it be you, Mr. Cvetkovic? Because, regardless of personally maybe respect for you as a man, I really don't think there's a worse part of that government than you as Prime Minister. How will you, if you have proved that you are unable to establish order, to arrange relations between ministers and to run a government with authority, do so now, and also perform the role of finance minister? What I would also like to hear, Mr Cvetkovic, is what is the greatest success and greatest achievement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia over the past three years? What's that you're most proud of? My opinion is that perhaps the only great success, the only thing you intend to achieve, is that you created an SNS. It's your only successful project in the last three years. As they say, the successful government is creating an opposition on its own. Once Slobodan Milosevic had Vuk Draskovic as his favorite opposition, he was calm and knew that as long as he was at the head of the opposition that Milosevic would be safe in power. So today Boris Tadic has in Tomislav Nikolic his favorite opposition, as they call him, a charismatic loser. Dragan Gilas has Alexander Vukic, and they are sure as long as they have such an opposition that they will be safe and that you will remain in power. However, you were wrong in one fact. It is that the citizens of Serbia can endure just about anything, but you, even though you have made the opposition to your extent, have been so bad and have exercised power so badly, that even the gentlemen who belong to this political anomaly, called the SNS, have become some alternative to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I understand that since they talk about their mitts all the time, they talk about their choices, I understand they're in a hurry, and they're in a hurry because they're shooting at stitches. They boasted of election results in municipalities where the elections were repeated. A few days ago, I was in Negotina. There, the SNS won seven seats. When I came, I found a sign, the last to go, to turn off the light, and We turned off their light. They don't have a single councilman there anymore. It is a similar situation in other municipalities where early elections were held, where they were coming in, making foolish promises, spending huge amounts of money, and giving citizens nothing in return. Since they say they have already been persecuted by this regime, there is another similarity to the opposition from a previous period, which is that during their opposition, they also gained not tens of squares, but acquired hundreds of squares of their family's living space. You, Mr. Cvetkovic, are guilty of not using this anti-corruption agency, which you boast about in the exposé, and of not answering the SRS parliamentary questions, which requires an examination of the financing of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51770	The Prime Minister has a word. Here you go, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51771	Dear People's MP, I'd like to give you the answers to a few questions you've raised here. One part of the presentation was the general character where you exposed your views and I tried to extract from it only those segments that are relevant to what we are talking about now and that can be defined as specific issues. I managed to find some three or four segments. Although this first one is not directly related to today's topic, but you have raised it, so you have considered the issue of the Government Act and have given an opinion on individual views. I think it would have been better if you had made those opinions at a time when that law was passed, because then there was a chance that, eventually, if you're convincing, you could convince most of the MPs and then put your attitudes in, and now we can talk about it ex-post, but there's not much use of it. The second question is how elected people were for the new government and what recommended them. You know that coalition governments are formed by the coalition partners making their proposals, and then these proposals are found in one place and if there is no direct opposition from some others then these proposals are accepted, so around this government was created as a result of the delegation of the best people in the opinion of individual coalition partners. That's why they were appointed, which is why I suggested people the way I have them in my proposal. The third question, you said you didn't see in the exposé which is the greatest achievement of the government so far. The truth is, I didn't want to use the exhibits as some kind of advertising pamphlet for what was done so far. Otherwise, we have the opportunity to talk about what the government has done in some annual reports, so we say, for the past year, this or that has been done. But if you ask me directly, here, I think, of course, that these achievements are a lot, but to take three, the way I see them as the most significant. I think that these successes, or achievements, will remain as something to be recorded regarding the mandate of this government. First of all, I think it will certainly be recorded that during the term of this government visas have been abolished and that in some way dignity has been restored to our citizens, that they do not have to wait in huge ranks in front of the embassies, etc. So it's something that's certainly going to stay, whether we use it or not, but we know that we're now decent people. Secondly, I think it will also remain recorded, as an achievement, that one key shift has been made in European integration, because in three years we have come a very big way in this government's underage. Let me just remind you that at the beginning, that is, when the government was formed, at that moment we still didn't have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, only after the formation of the government, this new parliament adopted it. So, from some initial first step, and not even a full step, the first half, we've come to a point in less than three years that we're practically done with the questionnaire, and in a few months we expect to arrange some more reforms and get candidate status. So in three and a half years, from zero to candidate status, it really has to remain recorded as achievement. Finally, thirdly, it is certainly the abolition of the mandatory military deadline, leaving opportunities for those who want to apply voluntarily to be able to, but this will remain recorded as the fluid of this government. These are, in my opinion, three of the most significant, of course, more. Finally, the fourth or fifth question you have raised, is why is it not used by the Anti-Corruption Agency? I have to tell you that the Anti-Corruption Agency is an independent regulatory body and any attempt by the government to use it for some purposes, even if these objectives may be noble, would be a complete destruction of one concept of independent bodies and the collapse of the principles on which this government is founded in terms of how it should function. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51772	Replica, Mr. Mirko Chikiriz, probably because of his favorite opposition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51773	Very short. I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 104 and 107. I don't think today's discussion should turn into a direction that Mr. Sarovic wants to direct, but simply works for the public. It is an old thesis for the service of national security that unfortunately we have not reformed today in the way the SPO thinks, that Vuk Draskovic, who was just then tried several times to kill and, unfortunately, some of our very dear people and killed him, was the favourite oppositionist Slobodan Milosevic. Of course the whole of Serbia and the world knows that the SRS was then called the Socialist Reserve Party. Vuk Draskovic was so popular, in 1993, on the day Dobrica Ćosic, with Vuk, was in prison, when your MP spread democracy across the halls of the National Assembly by breaking our vice president and MP Michael Markovic's jaw. He was so popular that I thought seeing Wolf in prison wasn't alive at all because he wasn't giving signs of life because of the police torture he survived. Of course, after the assassination of the Ibarian magistrate, your party's leader said it was an immigration act, "Osse", "Pauka", Canadian emigrants, Australian emigrants, etc. And we know that thesis very well. What is important to us as a SPO in political terms, is that today, after 20 years of multilaterals in Serbia, 90% of the MPs accepted Serbia's European path and 90% of the former SRS members.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51774	National MP Nemanja Sarovic, replica. Mr. Cvetkovic, you reprimanded me because I did not give my criticism when the agenda was, in fact, this debate on the Government Act, however, Mr. Cvetkovic, you are mistaken. I brought up my criticism back then, but you weren't there to hear them and to maybe convince you how you now claim I could. And then I asked what it is that Mirko Cvetkovic has more important today and if you were here then, Mr. Cvetkovic, I might convince you, so you would correct some of this nonsense. And then I warned you that it was not possible by law to prescribe the authority of anyone, not yours, especially after three years of running the government without having any authority. Second thing, you didn't even call on that bill a few days ago. You applied to the 2008 Law. It's in the proposal to elect the ministers you sent us. Under the 2008 Law, the Prime Minister cannot be a minister, the Deputy Prime Minister cannot be a minister. They are not obliged by the government to represent its views in the public, etc. You called yourself, Mr. Cvetkovic, to the old law. Look at your proposal, if you haven't looked at it before. So official messenger number 55/05, 101/07 and 65/08. You didn't call for the changes and additions that came out in "Official Messenger" number 16/10. I missed out earlier on, you're talking about some kind of 20-20 development plan. There was one favorite opposition who during the 1990s called the Z-4 plan "plan 3-4", and you now, by example, call it the "development plan" by 2020. (President: Time. One more sentence, if I may. As for visa waivers, visas have been lifted, but the number of exits has been reduced. As far as the SAA is concerned, if you didn't have it when you formed it, it's not true. The SAA was signed on 29 April 2008 and it was your main asset before the elections. National MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51776	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Cvetkovic, when I saw this letter 119-01/28 of March 11th, I was pleased that you would take a good step for Serbia when you delivered us the resignations of government members. But this next document, which is only one number higher, actually says that you didn't mean it and that this rag, which should only contribute to the survival of this government for several months, will practically be nothing. There's a lot of unserious things that can be seen, after all, in this exposé of yours that you delivered to us. As some other goal, you cited the preservation of KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. These days, Mr. Cvetkovic, we have had the opportunity to see the composition of our team negotiating with the KIM delegation. Many citizens of Serbia, who are not politicians, are also talking to me these days, but are thinking in the right way. They say that Mr. Cvetkovic should never have directed someone from the Foreign Ministry, so whoever he was, to run this delegation of ours. Here, in front of me is the nearest Mr. Markovic, who is responsible for the state administration and local self-government. If you had instructed Mr Markovic, it would have been far more appropriate for this goal of yours – the preservation of KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure Mr. Markovic would do a lot better, because he has more experience than I think there is that man you've put on the head of the delegation, and personally I have absolutely nothing against him. I don't think anyone from the MIP should have run the delegation, because by doing that, in my opinion, you kind of admit what you want to preserve. Now in response, Mr. Cvetkovic, you said it was one of the achievements and military deadlines. I don't see Mr. Shooter here. If we accepted that the future military deadline was voluntary, if we accepted that we had 11,000 professionals, people used to talk to us about having someone sent a garrison to be closer to home, but even some asked us to explain to them what these ways might be to extend their military service. Today people are talking to us, but for quite the opposite reason, which is not allowing them to serve the military deadline, or that the criteria are, primarily, these health criteria, so set up for these soldiers who come voluntarily, that we now have to look for our acquaintances, to react, to try to help someone who wants to serve the military deadline to help overcome this problem. I'm sure the criteria for the admission of professional soldiers should be much sharper than they are today. And what you call a professionalization of the military, I call it the socialization of the military, by solving social issues of a certain number of people seeking employment, and by doing so, these health criteria are absolutely not respected as we should, and we don't have the professional army that we need and what we want. But why, in addition to all that, in front of those young people, did they choose to serve a voluntary military deadline set up criteria that rejected them? Because they have one or two kilos more, because they are not fed, because today in Serbia, who is very nutritious? Because they may also have some centimetres lower than some regulation that has, behold, been established, or given by that medical service. If it is said that everyone will have the opportunity to serve a military service voluntarily, then it should be possible for him, even when we have adopted that law. You know that one provision speaks of making it possible for those who have served a civilian military term, if they wish, to serve it voluntarily again now. Well, then, someone should be given a chance to do the same job twice. But if we were to go all the way in those criteria that defined someone serving a military term without a weapon, then it's just unacceptable for them to be allowed to, from some perhaps now of personal interest, to get a job in the state service, primarily in the police or military, to be allowed to serve the military again. Mr. Cvetkovic, in your exposé, I'm just going to say something - overnight we were witnesses, financial institutions collapsed, world-renowned companies went bankrupt, and a huge army of people in the world was left out of work every day. In such, according to world conditions, the government of the Republic of Serbia has managed to minimise the impact of the crisis on the country's economy and preserve stability. Mr. Cvetkovic, while those institutions collapsed, ours had already been destroyed. What has collapsed in the world has not already existed in us, especially when it comes to financial institutions. What are financial institutions other than NBS, which institutions exist? Those four banks that are still in some unresolved status were long before you became prime minister in the Republic of Serbia. When you say, Mr. Cvetkovic, that you managed to save large economic systems on a macroplan, what does large economic systems mean? There is nothing more in Serbia that is economic and nothing that is great. There are only some public enterprises that have remained and are to be sold, and the rest in Serbia does not exist, the rest has already been destroyed. You're still saying -- and banks since the collapse in the worst period of crisis. Mr. Cvetkovic, I simply can't find any explanation for your findings like this. What banks, which banks did you keep during the crisis? You don't mean the other side of the bank, because you don't have to look after them after all, do you? You are only obliged to ensure that citizens who are the commissioners of these banks, that as a government, you keep them from the various malfeasances that are already being carried out or that can be implemented. Now, he says, we need to shift focus to strategic sectors that will represent development generators in the post-crisis period. Only dynamic growth, the extensive competitiveness of the Serbian economy is a real basis for increasing employment and raising the standard of living of each Serbian population. I would agree with this, Mr Cvetkovic, that without working for Serbia there is no improvement, that without hiring people there are no real grounds for raising living standards. But can this government do it? Could this be done by some reconstructed government, where some cosmetic changes have been made and where, as it was three years ago, the goal is to make Serbian citizens better. It is so good for the citizens of Serbia that every day we have those who cut their fingers or nail the parts of their bodies, that some who can't, because they heard that human organs have great value, so they offer their organs, but no one who wants to buy them comes forward, and then they decide to kill themselves. No one does, Mr Cvetkovic, such an analysis, the better it is for the citizens of Serbia. If you had stayed on this first piece of paper, which you have offered the president of the assembly here, I think anyone from the opposition would welcome it, and I believe part of the ruling coalition. So, absolutely, as far as I'm concerned, and as far as the SRS is concerned, you can't have our support.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51777	Ambassador Bojan Djuric. You've got another minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51778	The Honorable President, Prime Minister, candidates for ministers, doesn't have much time, but well, the government didn't have much time left until the election, so the Prime Minister here today didn't stop much energy and enthusiasm from announcing her future plans. That went even to the point that today, Mr. Cvetkovic, you came to this House practically with the same, even somewhat shortened exposé than three years ago, well, today there are six points, and I think there were five in the first one. It's probably the original plan increased by a percentage of inflation over the past three years, while you led the Serbian government. It is truly amazing to me that in the country, Mr Andric told you about this, that you have managed to turn the mood and the definition of citizens from a 70% positive percentage to the question of whether Serbia is going in the right direction, in terms of European integration, to get to a completely reverse percentage. Today, 70% of Serbian citizens think you are bad at running this government. I don't have much reason to feel sorry for you and give you some kind of political advice, but I don't think it's a good thing that a year before the election you don't have the strength to admit a mistake in an exposé on five or six pages. Indeed, it is somewhat humiliating to the citizens of Serbia and to this Parliament, who you have said several times that he is unable to discuss operational matters and that you have therefore put an exclusive strategic definition in this exposure, that practically the first point of your economic programme is the supply of basic life supplies at more acceptable prices for all citizens. You know, Serbia isn't Libya after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51779	Mr. President, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51780	Since you've only had one minute and a half, I've called to say maybe one sentence and give you a chance to get two more minutes. That sentence will be surprising to me that you expected it to be the same coalition that forms the government and that the exposés should differ. The targets are the same. We haven't changed the coalition, we haven't changed our goals. Why should exhibits in the base section be different? That's all I wanted to ask you and give you those two minutes extra.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51781	I don't think there are any elements to the replica. Srdjan Milivojevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51782	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, candidates for ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask you, do you know where we were three years ago today? I will tell you – we were in an election campaign for parliamentary elections after which we became MPs, and in these parliamentary elections, Serbia was at one crossroads, at a very important crossroads, as the question of whether Serbia should be a modern European democratic state, or whether it should be a smoother one in which someone else's anthem will be played? For the sake of reminders, I will only say that we took the victory in these parliamentary elections not exactly for the razor, but in a small percentage, it beat the idea of a European Serbia. The small percentage was enough that we had a total parliamentary majority and that after these elections we made that nothing in Serbia was as it was before that day. Because today is no longer a question of whether Serbia should go to Europe or not, as most opposition parties do, and one of the biggest has fallen apart on whether Serbia should go to Europe or not, today most opposition parties believe Serbia has a European future. It's a great victory for the European idea. Anyone who thinks that the European idea in Serbia has not taken advantage has made a grave mistake. Because today, both those who have criticised the government and while criticising the parliamentary majority, do not have the dilemma that if an opportunity were to come to power, should Serbia go the way of Europe or not. On the other hand, I'll remind you what it looked like to be at the crossroads where Serbia was at the time, and that crossroads threatened to become our cross that would be carried not only by this generation but also by some future generations. At that crossroads, the sowers of panic, colds, fears, and the reapers of distress had plenty of fertile soil. They assured us that Božidar Djelic, when he signed that agreement with a pen, would sign the secession of Vojvodina, that DS would sell Novi Pazar, that we would sell the Raska area, etc. Now I ask you, who used to point their hands at us, let them look me in the eye and tell me where the Duke is today? Where she's been before that signature. Where are all the borders of the Republic of Serbia – where they were and the day we signed the agreement. When the government started to work and when we made our promises that we started to make, it proved that Dr. Babic would no longer operate in the crazy house and that Serbia was not a crazy house, but that those people who sinned against the law and elementary norms had to respond and have to be delivered where they belong. We went into an open fight against organised crime and therefore all praises to Mrs. Snezani Malovic, and to Mr. Saša Vukadinović and Milja Radisavljevic. Some say the fight against crime and corruption is, in fact, a political fight with political inexperiences, although we, just reminders, have first arrested the mayor of the DS. Then they all told us that we were one yellow thief enterprise. Later, we passed a law on confiscation of property acquired by crime, and all those who sinned against the law were found at the hands of justice. I am sending a clear message to all those who say it is a matter of political persecution – no one in Serbia today can push out a party book as a shield and say it is untouchable from prosecution because it is a leader or member of a political party. Members of the party, on the contrary, and party leaders, have far greater responsibility for the crimes they commit and have far greater awareness of the importance of these crimes they commit. Serbia needs change and hope today, not change, and today we have had a change of desires, ideas and ambitions of some people who, in their insatiable desire to come to power, do not hesitate to do anything, even threaten to break and destroy Belgrade if we do not respond to people's dissatisfaction. I watched Belgrade crash and break and worse the foreign embassies, and I saw those standing on the stage watching the US Embassy burn, and only a few months ahead of that same embassy waiting to shake hands with the ambassador. This is in the context of this shift of consciousness towards European integration. On one occasion, I was saying that Belgrade knows what it looks like when it collapses, the Kruševac knows, and the Cačak, and the King's and Leskovac, but these cities also know how to defend themselves against such destructive and violent acts. As long as there is a stable parliamentary majority in this House, the government has received a mandate from the majority to do its job the best it can do. The question has been raised where money for pensions by people whose government's pension funds have been so thoroughly emptied and this is the highlight of the political impunity that I witnessed today in this room. You know, I'm not here to suffer with Serbian citizens. I feel for suffering. But what will Serbian citizens have if Mirko Cvetkovic, as Prime Minister, suffers with them? He's here to solve problems that cause suffering and upset the citizens. The government of the Republic of Serbia has taken responsibility for managing this country, not for ruling. I know that there are political parties that see the exercise of power as a set of privileges, not a responsibility. But as long as this parliamentary majority governs this country, the exercise of power will exclusively involve responsibility, and never a privilege. Anyone who thinks it's a privilege to exercise authority may immediately, as far as I'm concerned, pack things and go home, because I will not vote for them, nor will I give him my voice, nor will I give him my support in the work he does. There were many pessimistic tones today. We have heard the saying that everything has failed, that nothing in this land is good, that it is not worth sowing, or harvesting, or plowing, or digging. You know, I'm ordering those to put as a party symbol a cowardly bird and take Ceca's "Cuckoo" anthem as their own, so let them go home and whine for free. But don't scare the citizens and don't tell the citizens how hard they live. We all know how hard citizens live. I don't live on Mars. I live in Krushevec. I'm going to the market, I know the prices at the market, I know the problems my fellow citizens are facing. I meet with people who live in this country and they bring these problems to me, and I try to solve these problems, and as a MP, and I try to influence the Government of the Republic of Serbia to solve these problems more quickly and efficiently. I was talking about moving stairs here, not in some peorative tone, about another situation I was talking about moving stairs. In fact, when you go abroad, when Serbian citizens go abroad, say, to America, when Serbian citizens are driving down the escalator, on the right there are those who are tired, tired, or God-awful, what problems they have, they are slowly holding on to that gelander and slowly those stairs are going. The left side of the escalator is left for those who are in a hurry, who skip two steps. When they come to us in Kruševac, Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, these same people are driving on moving stairs in such a way that they are left or right, or usually in pairs, side by side, talking nicely as they ride, regardless of what people are behind them who want to skip two or three steps and run through those moving stairs. You know, let those people who believe in the better tomorrow, who run up the moving stairs to run, don't stop them with their hands and feet because I'm hearing it right now and I see it in the discussions of some opposition parties when they were talking here today. I will especially absorb the need for Serbia to be a society of knowledge, because only a society of knowledge is a society of prosperity. Intellectuals have this most honorable job of sometimes being in a large minority when they convince citizens of the correctness of their views. In Serbia being an intellectual often means also being exposed to the repression and contempt of the environment, because you have visions, ideals that most do not share. When these ideals, and so was European Serbia, impose themselves as the majority ideal for the citizens of this country, I feel no pride for being right when no one was right and for believing that idea, on the contrary, I am glad that these people believe that idea, but I don't think that this idea was achieved by the very faith of those people. On the contrary, the fulfillment of that faith requires much work to accomplish that idea. Sometimes it's really hard to make something happen. What we want to accomplish, and what's hard, requires sometimes hours, sometimes days, sometimes months, and sometimes years of hard work. What's impossible requires the same thing, just a little bit more. Well, let's as a government and as a parliamentary majority take that step more, that what some now seem impossible, we show in September and October that it's possible, and this year. Let's make that European lighthouse, which turned on by Dr Zoran Djindjic, the only lighthouse that guides the Serbian ship into the sea of those colorful lighthouses, which are only strangers. Let's show that this coat of arms means "only the style of a Serb saves" and not "Only the syrofoam of a Serb saves". Let's show everyone in this country that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is able to achieve this big step, which is very important for Serbia this year, which is called candidate status and obtaining that candidacy, and to show that this is feasible and feasible, but not at some fantastic expensive price, but at a real price. What I will finally say is, I am absolutely convinced that all these people sitting across from me, who are candidates for ministers, including the Prime Minister, at the end of my term, and I will make sure that this mandate is fully in place for four years, I am sure that these people will not be burdened on their backs and taken away after their term. It remains for the citizens of this country, it remains as a testimony and about us who voted for this government and the time we lived in, but above all in our faith in what I'm talking about right now. I am absolutely convinced that this time may be difficult and monitored by difficulties, but it will be a time when we will do a huge, big job, which our generations who come after us will remember as a significant step towards European integration and let's not leave our children a burden of the past and a burden of the present, but to relieve them so that we can live as a normal people.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51783	Replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51784	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Milivojevic, of course, remembered how the US Embassy burned down, but failed to say he remembered because he participated, and how this assembly burned down and how Serbia's Radio-Television burned down. I did not answer because of this, what has interfered with me in exposing Mr Milivojevic, it is one of the ways of this government when it comes to co-operation with the so-called Hague tribunal, which is that all Serbs are in advance guilty unless they prove themselves innocent. So, if you have carefully followed Mr Milivojevic's exposure, he boasts that the great achievement of this government is that he arrested Dr Dabic, or Dr Radovan Karadzic, because in his words, he made some mistakes and committed some crimes, so he should answer for it. Excuse me, Mr. Milivojevic, there is still no first-degree verdict against Dr. Radovan Karadzic, and with what right do you accuse someone of being guilty when the UN tribunal has not yet proved it? But it's not just your manners, it's also the president of the Republic. We often heard from him how, allegedly, Ratko Mladic should go to The Hague to prove his innocence. Here, this is your Justice Minister's seat. Excuse me, in what civilised and democratic court, in a civilised and democratic judiciary, someone accused should prove he's innocent, instead of the one who filed the suit proving he's guilty? That's all there is in The Hague. That is why the Serbian Radical Party is against co-operation with The Hague tribunal, because there whoever appears from the Serbs, no matter what policy he has conducted here, whether he was a politician of this party or of that party, whether he was a military general or a police general, he is guilty in advance, if he himself fails to prove he is innocent.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51785	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51786	I don't want to replicate anyone in this room, but I just said that all those who committed war crimes have to be in a place where justice is divided, whatever that place was called today in the world. I never said anyone was found guilty, nor did I find anyone guilty. I'm not a judge, I'm not a prosecutor, I'm not a jury in that court. But what do I want to say to those who can't hear what I'm saying? At least let them learn to read and look at the stenogram of what I said. It's not hard, the alphabet only has 30 letters. What I want to say for the end, every man, if he's normal, has only one ambition – that his children live better than they do. I am absolutely convinced that our children can't live very well in moments as they go to church to celebrate, and behind them are the Scorpions who shot those same children in the back. I am absolutely convinced that even our children in Bratunac can't go to school peacefully and that those who killed their fathers live in their neighborhood. But the hand of justice may be for some short, for some debt, but I absolutely assure you that justice is available for both the victims and the executioners. I'm not here to judge anyone. There's a much fairer court, and I believe in it. We'll all meet on it-- and hang out with the executioners and the victims. But until we get to that court, let's make as few executioners as possible between us and send them where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51787	Ambassador Milan Stanimirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51788	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, the Prime Minister and the prime ministers, today's debate has shown that the opposition, honour of exceptions, is much more mature for reconstruction than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Criticism with lots of general places, no programs, no strategy, no visions, with a basic idea of how to be a callif instead of a callif. Instead of the programme, they offered themselves as a guarantee of success, counting primarily on the short memory of Serbian citizens. Paraphrasing an old saying, after all, could be said – a government that has such an opposition should not worry about its future. But this is still a reaction to the first ball. It should also be that we are concerned, when within the very coalition of the NGO sector and citizens we hear much more constructive, more thorough and reasoned criticism than we heard in today's discussions by the opposition. I am convinced that a qualitatively strong opposition, with an alternative programme, would greatly affect the better and more efficient functioning of both the government and the coalition themselves. This way, I am truly convinced that this opposition is mature for reconstruction, because they have responded to the clear political goals set out in this exposé with cheap political paroles. As a society in transition, which threatens to become a permanent patient state, all the potentials of society must seek sustainable solutions and not act in accordance with that Scarlician state – I don't know how to lay an egg, but I know what a kitten is. Cultivating hopelessness, gentlemen, is not politics. In the conditions of a permanent internal crisis in which our society has been inundated for nearly two decades, caused by a poor policy at the end of the last century, there has also been an external crisis that has rocked the world's strongest countries. I think that today, too little has been said about the fact that this government, like all previous governments, has been in a position to address maximum needs with minimal means. This job has been done far more successfully than many countries that have seen the crisis in an incomparably better economic situation. The main issues of the quality of one government are, above all, settled public finances, maintaining small inflation, stable currency, increasingly economic conditions. I believe that, given the conditions given, the government was successful in this field, establishing the stability and predictability of the system in impossible conditions, which may be often referred to as extortion by the chess dictionaries. The government, like all governments after October 5th, is a coalition government, not a mandated government. Probably, if one of our parties could form a mandated government, you'd be in a position to implement your party's program. The government is limited, as are all coalition governments and interests in coalition partners' programmes. Despite this, which is the coalition government, I don't think the basic objectives of this government being set out in the exposé are clouded. To our LDP colleagues, I agree that the problems are largely inherited, as you have also found in the discussion. I also agree with the methodology – analysis of problems, running for solutions, actions to make these solutions and apply and that problems must be solved before they break the whole society. I am convinced that by sharing the same values, we are not questioning the fact that if Serbia is in a hurry, we must have much more support than 6-7%, so that we can at all be able to change this society. From the definition that skill policy is possible, it is closer to me that it defines that skill policy is to make possible what is needed. We've also been listening to a newly-roasted, newly created opposition party. Three days ago, I attended a meeting where young people spoke on the subject of the word of Dr. Zoran Djindjic before you threw a stone at another, say what you did. Today we are criticised for not going faster by those who have been pressing the brakes for 20 years. Only in fairy tales can it be believed that cannibals overnight can become vegetarians. In order to convince Serbia's citizens and us that they have really changed, they should first convince their membership not to whistle at party meetings for EU ambassadors and their newly established allies. It is necessary, as allies, to take in a new policy more convincing associates than the Japanese version of Che Guvara, a certain julin, a fugitive businessman, who, as co-owner of the "Mobtel" claimed that this firm is operating without profit, in order to avoid sharing this profit with the state, for which it is later, for something that is allegedly worthless, Telenor gave a billion and a half euros. Or one of the sad symbols of October 5th, what about politics whose personnel are more competent to be spoken by investigative authorities today than the MPs? Personal morality must be the basis of every general policy. As a protector of the interest of poor Serbian citizens, it cannot be represented as one who is originally responsible for the situation in which the whole society is present today and accuse us of being late for 20 years who has been trying to prevent Serbia's candidacy. It's too expensive for our society to call the elections to get the legality and legitimacy to change someone's political opinion. As for another opposition party, the political options, also one of the October 5th symbols, are unnecessary to waste words. What to say about xenophobic and claustrophobic politics of politicians who consider themselves to be the best government, and today the only consciousness and conscience of society and who does not recognise any critical point beyond their own eyesight. I've always had suspicious leaders hiding behind the people and not going in front of them. As for the SRS, its policy seems to me lost beyond time and out of space, which does not take itself seriously anymore, awaiting the rescue return of its leader and does not deserve any more serious comment. I am here on purpose talking about those who disagree with the reconstruction of the government of the Republic of Serbia and who will not vote for the reconstruction of the Serbian government. We are not here to worry about the concerns of officials and political parties, because the generations that come will not judge what anyone has said about whom, but rather what they have done for their people and for their country. Only strong and stable Serbia provides conditions for achieving political goals. The stability was paid by self-discipline and self-rejection of Serbian citizens. There's no gambling with that. The Democratic Party, as the headquarters of this coalition, has had a clear policy since the beginning with which there is no uncertainty. The DS has been turned towards regional stability and security since the establishment of peace-making, European, democratic, and for co-operation with neighbours, return to old markets, conquering new, attracting investors, the headquarters of institutional and all other reforms. Of all the other opposition parties, only two parties' policy is certain – the SRS, as a policy of returning to the past, and the LDP, which we still feel as fellows in the fight for modern European and democratic Serbia. What kind of citizens can expect from those who have failed all that they fought for as one of the October 5th symbols? What is the certainty that those who have failed their 20-year political beliefs, 20 days after some subsequent elections, will not change their minds again? Serbia doesn't have a long time for vivo experiments. That is why today we will provide full support to the reconstructed government of the Republic of Serbia, along with our coalition partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51789	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. You have 28 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the government, I really agree, for the first time, with one of my colleagues in office, that today we've really been listening here. What I can't share with them is that you can talk about responsibility here today. What's going on here today for the SRS is necessary. What an emergency, you judge for yourself, it's all just not a responsibility. You, Mr. Stanimirovic, who is talking about visions and political certainty, will use an exposé that is completely identical to what we were listening to today, but the same man proposed it two and a half years ago. You and your fellow MPs, as well as the public, will hear what Serbia looks like from your perspective and from your vision and political responsibility. You see, you and Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic can believe in Charles Darwin's theory, but I really believe, along with the colleagues of the SRS, that in this room, and for God's sake behind small screens, there are no more those who grew up on trees, so they can believe that this team here in a year will do what you promised to do three years ago. What you promised, it says here. I'll take one point at a time, especially from a segment of the economy, try to give you a hint. I repeat, what your vision looks like, and what on the whole other half or the other side today looks like reality in Serbia. You see, Mr. Cvetkovic, what is it that represents your credibility, which you provide by changing the law, so you can assure us that today you will make a government that will do in a year or less what you haven't done in three years? The easiest thing to do is to have those who will support you, who will vote for you tonight and say, and you do not offer solutions. What's that supposed to offer you? A pothole or hot water? What is this serious and modern-developed world that hasn't already invented, that you couldn't use and apply here? He didn't make up just one thing, something that you're not ready to ruin. It is a picture and opportunity of your cabinet, your government and the visions that MPs, who will vote for you tonight, have been promoting for 10 years in Serbia. But unlike these MPs here, I won't go ten years or 20 years back and I won't ask you what your role in the 1997 Telecom sale is, no. As an MP of the SRS, I will speak only two and a half years ago, when you came before us MPs and offered us now a quite colorful lie. That's your 2008 exposé. There, Mr. Cvetkovic, you said, Mr. Stanimirovic, this is your vision now, you said you would have a 7% GDP growth on the annual level, almost as Chinese. Tell the MPs how big our GDP growth is today. Mr. Cvetkovic, then you promised unemployment would be 11%, today is 23%, and you still have no intention of ending your mandate. Then, Mr. Cvetkovic, you promised a wide range of incentive measures, from infrastructure projects, municipal projects, electricity projects, etc. In the end, you promised, Mr. Cvetkovic, to approve tax reliefs for investments in undeveloped areas. You see, two or three months ago, we passed the Budget Law. In this Budget Law, there is information on how much tax incentives were on this basis in Serbia, both in 2010 and 2009, in undeveloped areas. Do you know what the number is in millions of euros? Zero, Mr. Cvetkovic. I come from such an undeveloped area. I ask you what in the context of the incentive measures did you do in Vranj, in the Shop, in Bosilegrad, in Bujanovac, in Presevo, where you had the economic and political interest and the obligation to invest and provide incentive measures? Today, Mr. Cvetkovic, people in the Shop live together in a room with their pigs. Today, Mr. Cvetkovic, at the Shop, which was destroyed by floods, your government shares tanga panties, and you're here telling us about vision. The opposition does not offer a solution, does not offer an alternative. You know what else you promised, Mr. Cvetkovic? I'll tell you now. You promised to cut inflation, and last year you ended up with the largest inflation on the European continent. So, Mr. Cvetkovic, you promised to turn the fiscal deficit into a fiscal surplus. With what? Your public policy? With your public expenditure policy or your public debt policy? Is that what's going to provide you with a financial and fiscal surplus? You've replaced the finance minister. Let's change it. Mrs Dragutinovic did not manage, she did not understand what was her obligation and position and duty as finance minister. At the same time, the question arises -- how much in the ambience that you as prime minister were obliged to ensure could not be the hostage of political ambitions, political interests and individuals in that government and political parties and interest groups, which one former vice president spoke of a few days ago, so you rushed him out of the government? Let's move on, Mr. Minister. With this kind of competitiveness, you're going to change things with the deficit? With this kind of industry policy? With this kind of agrarian policy? With a foreign trade deficit like this? With trends like this in the public debt sector? Is that what will provide us with the perspective you write here and offer us two years ago and today? No, Mr. Cvetkovic, as long as your dissonant tones are from the NBS. While you are offering on one side a new model of economic policy development, and then for populist purposes offer citizens a grace period of one year to facilitate their repayment of debts and loans, instead of doing so by the NBS or banks that do so and to whom the people owe. You're pushing yourself as prime minister and government to solve credit policy and citizens' credit problems instead of providing them with jobs, so they pay off their salaries to both banks or I don't know who else. Mr. Minister, listen to this, first ministers, you promised to privatise social enterprises, where your government puts directors who receive salaries of 200,000 dinars, and if they give them a warm meal or regress, which, with your blessing, is between 100 and 200, 300 or 500 dinars. So, Mr. Cvetkovic, you promised to launch the privatisation of public enterprises. You promised by 2008 that privatisation of public utility companies would take place, from local to national level. What did you do? You're done talking to Telekom. How? By handing out the loot first, and then you agreed to call a tender for the sale of Telekom. If there's a god, and there's a god, you won't sell it. You won't sell it because you don't understand why it needs to be sold, or why you need to keep it. Mr. Cvetkovic, you promised a comprehensive regulation reform. Is that what the global economic crisis is all about? Do you need opposition solutions for that, too? Who do you need to apply positive legal and any other practice? Who forbids you to introduce elements of corporate governance into the public sector, into all those institutions where this could be introduced? You don't have anyone to defend you, but you don't have time, because you're ad hoc policy, from today to tomorrow, not strategically. Who are you going to convince in your 2020 programme? Who? No one, Mr. Minister, First Minister. I'm sorry, you're a minister now, actually. But such a programme for ten years is being brought into political consensus, not within the framework of the Crown or within one party, or within that team you gather in Kopalnik. Those who are ill-rich you consult for economic policy in this country, so they sell you trade and go to the agrarian sector because there will now be the biggest subsidies. You're talking about responsibility and your fellow MPs about responsibility? Mr. Cvetkovic, you promised, watch this, privatization of state agricultural and construction land partly through restitution. Three or two years ago, you passed the Law on Planning and Construction. What are the achievements of this law? What did you do with the conversion? This is a conversion. What are you and where are you? You have changed both sublaw and legislation several times, than you have succeeded in a single document in the context of legalization to issue. Do you really believe that these changes and additions, which we are currently discussing, will contribute and speed up the legalisation process? You haven't been able to write down a cadastre in ten years. You're going to lead us to the EU? Do you have no shame, but they bite your conscience when you go to the MPs or to the public, to say that you are a European future and a European perspective? Here come some of your former ministers, now vice-presidents of the government, and they convince us that our interest is in co-operation with Belarus. They're throwing numbers here as much as our foreign trade balance is changing with them. Then you give support to the resolution that practically introduces sanctions on our part to Belarus. Who the hell takes you seriously? Where are you taking this country? Who are you for? What are you? You promised, Mr. Cvetkovic, to raise the level of education, imagine, research work. You promised, Mr. Cvetkovic, businesses and businesses a market of 450 million inhabitants. What is your percentage of GDP exports? What are you exporting, Mr. Cvetkovic? At the beginning of the year, you project that you will export 100,000 tons of wheat and end the year with 650,000 tons. Export corn, export goods with stock prices, to repair the external trade balance, and then leave the country without food, and import pigs from Macedonia. Is that a vision? Is that the future? Your only commitment and meaningful decision tonight and these days was that you and everyone who did this to your society and the team would resign, simply become political forgetfulness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51791	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51792	Dear People's MP, I'd like to comment a little bit and answer these questions. I have only a vague view, since your political option is against the EU, whether this is criticism or commendation, because you said that we will not reach the EU, which means that if you really think so, it should be commendation on your part. But let me say something about what you said. So it's true that in that exposé that was written at the moment of one major economic downturn, certain macro-digits were put in place that couldn't really be maintained. So this growth of 7% that you mentioned, which then seemed to reach the hands, because about until the start of the crisis he was close to 8, and then in that first year, because the crisis came in the last quarter, he fell somewhere at 5.5. However, after the consolidation behind the crisis, our growth is now expected to be around three or maybe between three and four percent, which means that there is a basis for growth that, according to our 2020 plan, is expected to be somewhere between 6% and 7% on average. As for the issues of the relationship between the National Bank and the credit debt, I must say that it is the government's initiative, but that it certainly does not take place autonomously and does not take place outside the National Bank, so that we are in constant contact and based on these contacts, as well as contacts with business banks that are expected, I think, already during tomorrow, we will have one proposal that I believe will really make life easier for the people who took the loans, because it will allow them to over grace periods, practically, cut their payment obligation over the next 18 months to two years. This will increase their purchasing power that they can use for direct current consumption or, in turn, for taking new loans during that period, grace period means up to two years, so that they can even buy some permanent consumer goods. I think that instead of criticizing this measure, you have to be very happy, because all of us are aiming at making people's lives better. I note that this is only the first measure this government will work on, and in the next period we will initiate a number of other measures to facilitate people's lives. As for jobs to provide them, of course, the government cannot provide jobs as you think it is, but it will provide significant incentives at all levels, both in small and medium-sized enterprises, and in the context of agricultural activity, so we think it will create fundamentalists to slowly move towards creating opportunities for people to work and earn. When it comes to privatising social enterprises, which was one of the tasks, as far as I know, that privatisation is over. The companies that remain are state-owned, and I don't think social enterprises exist as an organisational form anymore. As far as the privatisation of public enterprises is concerned, so you know that NIS is privatized, it's one of the biggest public enterprises we've ever had, you know that there's a privatisation of Telecom against which you are, which is also a public enterprise. You also know that JAT's privatisation failed, that a new strategy is now being developed, so it will go back to privatisation. So this isn't about promises that are empty, it's about something that's been through a lot. As for the comprehensive reform of the regulations you mentioned, it was done, of course, not an act, but an act, it is still being implemented, but a huge number of regulations have been put out of force, a special office has been formed and this activity is already giving some results, and more will be in the future. Finally, when you talk about the external trade deficit, I have to say if we look at the figures, that the external trade deficit in the last year has been the lowest historical, or historically we have the highest level of coverage of our imports by 50%, it's about 58%, and our exports are recording extremely high growth rates, even this year those rates are double-digit, and that's over 20% in the last year, and for the start of this year, even about 30%, so it can be said that there are some positive shifts. What is the biggest problem and what the government is going to do most is actually to help people live easier, given that the economic crisis has really stopped that growth that was up until the start of government formation and practically the government was working at the moment the crisis started. It was a moment that unfortunately we couldn't choose, and now it's up to us to do everything to make it easier for people, and for those who can't help them through certain social programs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51793	Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51794	Mr. Cvetkovic, you've done your best, and all you've done is relativize everything. Come on, be kind and explain to the MPs and to me how is it possible for us to lose jobs and to increase exports on a realistic basis? I told you, you manipulate the numbers that concern our exports. On the contrary, you exported low-level goods, corn, wheat, sugar, everything that raised exports because the price on the stock market went up. And you'll see how vulnerable that export is to you if negative trends happen on the market. And you will see what you will boast. So you made export better because instead of 100,000, you exported 600,000 tons of wheat or corn, it doesn't matter if we don't move on. What is the degree of processing of products coming out of this country? What can you boast about? The largest exporters in this country are also the largest importers. That's what to say. I didn't ask your government to create jobs, but you were also obliged to create an environment for private capital to create and create jobs. What's the level of investment? What are your investments this year? Do you know what you're designing for this year? Four billion. Four billion foreign investments. Where? In a country with this level of legal and financial uncertainty, where you cannot collect undeniable claims, let alone in a country where there is no catastra. In a country where you can't get a building permit two, three years after you've promoted the new law? Please don't, Mr. Cvetkovic, we're not inserious and unrealistic people and don't you question my position on whether or not I'm in favour of or against the EU. I am against the EU, but prove to us that you are leading us to Europe to understand us or to understand the EU through the establishment of standards in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51795	I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51796	I just want to say a little bit. You're talking about a cadastre. When someone on the side hears, they might conclude that the catastre existed and when this government came, it destroyed it, so now it's gone. That catastre was supposed to exist 20 years ago. This government has launched a catastra, and it cannot be done in a year, because it is a big job, but we've started and that catastre will be made and then we'll have it. So, we're in an objectively poor country that's been left behind in a lot of things. We run certain procedures, we finish things, some end now, some end in the next period. But it's completely wrong and incorrect to criticize this government for not having the institutional instruments it should have. Of course we would have liked to have had a cadastre, of course we would have loved to have a system arranged in every way. On the contrary, we have to work on it and change it. We're trying to make these changes quick. I'd like, probably like you, to be even faster, but judging this government, which is the system, it's completely pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51797	Vice-President Gordana Comic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51798	Ladies and gentlemen, in the moments when such an important thing is discussed in parliament as the changed composition or the changed way the government will function in the future, for all of us who have participated or witnessed long enough creation and responsibility for the work of various governments, it is inevitable to remember that. I will try in five minutes to show through the figures what my position is and what is the reason why I will vote in favour of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's proposal on the changed way of functioning the government and the changed personal solutions. When I say that enough of us who have testified and participated, it is linked to an insufficient number of years, where this number of years of democracy development is just enough that most of the participants in the entire development of democracy are present and that they can testify to what they were involved in. It's about as if we're in England in the 16th or 17th century, in the first years. So, quite briefly, what is my focus or my special lens through which I am looking at whether I should vote in favour of the government's proposal to me. These are the balances of what the government has taken over and how much of what it has taken over, whether it has made new debts of any kind or has corrected debts. For the past ten years, as I testify and participate, I have witnessed the creation of five governments involved in the ageing of five governments and four Prime Ministers, Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic, Vojislav Kostunica in two mandates, and now Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Each one of these governments took an unofficial action from the previous government and did something better. For ten years, it is enough to see how many of these five governments, which have managed Serbia over the past ten years, have really changed everything in public affairs, which they have been given to manage better. The moment Zoran Djindjic spoke about the government programme on January 25th 2001, and I think in speech he said not only the government he chaired but also many future governments, including those who ran his political rivals and non-insistants, we had the situation that the salary was on average 35 euros. Today, it is 330 euros, with a good period of more than 400 and a few euros during the first government, led by Vojislav Kostunica. So, we're all going better. When we took over that first government, the unpaid liabilities of the state were such that children's allowances were not paid for two years, pensions were not paid for up to three years, various types of liabilities to various classes of pensioners, aid to the unemployed was delayed for two and a half years, for completely understandable reasons. I don't qualify this differently than I do as a balance and debt. So the total debt at that time was 230m euros and the debt was paid back, payments have been regular for a long time, and debts have been settled. Each of these five governments has done their part of the work in what the state is obliged to the citizens who vote for it. Serbia's foreign exchange reserves were about 300m euros at the time. Today, as I understood Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, it is 10 billion euros. Each of these governments has done something to increase foreign reserves. Ten years ago, nearly 70% of families could count below the poverty line by statistics. Today that percentage is awfully high, still. In one period, it was reduced and it was about 8.8%. It's already close to 10%. Each of these governments had a programme to fight poverty, eradicate poverty, extract the poorest from marginal groups and show the state to care for those who care for themselves in the most difficult way possible. Internal debt estimates ten years ago were 15 billion euros. Now, when we talk about hundreds of millions of euros, very bile debates are being held about who's right. GDP per capita was $829, now thousands of dollars. Each one of those governments did something. This is why it is important to examine very carefully the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic, as he will leave the balance to the next government, regardless of whether he will lead it, someone who will be supported by the DS or someone who will be supported by anyone from the opposition. My personal impression is that the governments were doing well, and those governments where I was the opposition and the governments I supported, and because there was a good opposition in the National Assembly, because without it no government would be good. There is not so many good self-aware members of the government who will give the best of themselves and the best result without the sword of the opposition or of the congregation bodies. Why am I talking about a few governments? Because I would like the topic tabled today by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, therefore, to vote in favour of the new composition of the government, to be the beginning of a new kind of dialogue here in the Assembly, among us, when it comes to the results of any government, because there have been several things I have witnessed that are not true, and that is that the opposition never votes for the Government's proposals. That's not true. The DS was an opposition, one good part of the law was then the ruling majority, in the nature of things, as the laws they did introduced to the Parliament's agenda, and in fact we voted. The DS voted for then-designate Predrag Markovic's president. Why? To show that the assembly is something different from the government, and that it is abnormal for 250 to vote for the vice presidents of the assembly, and for the president of the Assembly to vote only for the ruling majority. Now Predrag Markovic will have much bigger problems to justify the voice I am giving for this government and for him as minister in the culture and informing and especially the information society. So it's time for us in the Assembly to be among ourselves, and for us, it's a responsibility that we currently belong to the ruling majority, to change our relationship and attitude towards the government's criticism, never giving up on criticism, but understanding what we're criticizing. If it's about the 20-20 Serbian government programme, then that's the topic. The ten years I've been talking about now have flown by as a moment and these next ten will be. Are we going to talk today about whether or not the average profit could be 1,000 euros? If it can – why can't it, if it can't – why can't it? Are we going to continue to build together in all sectors, each withholding our political stance, our political taste and our political ideas, but not slowing down the foundation of democracy, which is dialogue as a strategy and continuing the results of one government to the other who come after it. When we look at these past ten years, I will only mention that all these governments have had a result in Serbia and in difficulties that involved relations with the former states, the community and the unresolved KIM problem, as well as 17 elections held between 24 September 2000 and 17 in Serbia. May 2008. And the fact that these 2008 May elections, which resulted in a coalition government, have been the last elections for almost three years for all of us to prove that the time has matured for Serbia to regain its four-year government. I will vote in favour of Mirko Cvetkovic's proposal, and I will never give up on government control and ask questions, which are not usual, they say, that he is asking a representative of the ruling majority, but I will do this because I know what pisses people off the most in Serbia, much more than poverty, much more than social fears, much more than unemployment, they are irritated by foreigners, pride, arrogance and the fact that they are watching us all in television and that they have an infallible feeling that we are dealing with ourselves, not their problems. Every government official I vote for today will be questioned in detail. Whether he gives up on such behaviour voluntarily or needs to be on one of the boards to prove to him that foreigning is an excess of vanity and excess arrogance, a forbidden form of behavior on a team called the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a shame to work. Thank you and I want you to work so that we can see you quite successfully at the end of this year, that is, in a few months when we enter the election year.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51799	The People's MP, Pai Mamchilov, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51800	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable President, the Honorable Mr Cvetkovic and the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of the candidates for the newly reconstructed Government, what do you say after the Prime Minister's exhibition? Dear Mrs Comic has given a review of the past 10 years, noting that the results of all governments after 2000 were significant. Just to remind you, in those 10 years, there were no genocide, there was no war and destruction in those 10 years, and in those 10 years, you had non-refundable material and financial aid, and you had a whole series of credits that we are still burdened with today. I don't know why Mrs. Comić came back to the 16th century, in the Middle Ages, but when she came back, after this exposé, I thought of a Latin proverb from that very Middle Ages. It is about: Mel and nuts – verba lactis; fel and corde – fraus and factis. Now to translate what that would mean, I'm sure it would be necessary. That means about this: "Bet in the mouth, milk in the words, bile in the heart, and deceit in the works." It's simple, when I heard this exposé and read it in detail, two of the facts were absolutely in my eyes. There's not a single problem this government has and you're only having successes in the exposé, on the other hand, not a word about new candidates. What qualify them except for the energy we've heard earlier is that we need to pump into this government and a little more style. The exposé is interesting, and then many of us rightly wondered, so what are you changing the government for? It's unnecessary when there's no problem, and there's no explanation what these new people qualify to be better. I don't like to talk in my head. I'll stick to the facts. I'll start at the prime minister's exposé in 2008. There's a good line here. "At the end of the term, everyone will have the opportunity to bring a court on the success of the government's work." Unfortunately, we have welcomed the end of the term of office, so here we are, in some way, judging you in Parliament. Secondly, that court should be given on the basis of facts, not prejudice. We are now reading what you stand for and what your top priorities are for your government that you have gathered together as a coalition and, behold, the European future of Serbia is first. Mr. Prime Minister, we would have been far happier in the SRS if your first priority were the present, political, economic and social, citizens of Serbia. There's nowhere for you to go that there's a peripheral indication in the exposé. When you talk about economic problems, you're an expert in finance and economics, it's undeniable, then you say nicely dynamic economic growth, employment growth and standards increase and balanced regional development. That's what you told us. What are the results? I guess the results are most important, and on that basis, I think you should be appreciated and evaluated. What about poverty? It is on the rise, Mr. Prime Minister, according to data from Serbia's statistical institution. I'm not quoting the documents right now. What about employment? Unemployment is on the rise. What about personal income? The lowest in the region. How and why? What about inflation - 11.2 according to the data we heard. You may correct me that it may not be true, you know it better, but they say it's one of the biggest in the region. What about the growth of duty? Those are the results. How can you be satisfied and have a sense of honor based on these results? I don't know. My central objection to you and to your government, I have repeated this in this Parliament many times, is that you are not aware at all or do not want to be aware of the basic problem of the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, which is the biological threat of the nation. Mr. Prime Minister, don't you know we're disappearing biologically from this space? For what? Because of the white plague that stagnates, but also because of something far scarier, because of the excessive general mortality caused by two epidemics, the epidemic of cardio-vascular diseases and cancers that plague the country of Serbia, which are preventable categories that good health policy can contain. My basic requirement is that you finally become aware of it. What is the task of a democratic government, modern, European, what would you like to be? It's the well-being of citizens. EU entry is not something fictitious, prosperity is measured by the quality of life. How do Serbian citizens live? When the World Health Organization investigates how our citizens are treated, then ten percent of our population says they can't go to a doctor because they can't pay for medication and treatment costs. That study is here. The World Health Organization published it last year. Our experts worked together. The quality of life criterion, if we look at what's most important, is health, and what health looks like, I told you. Mr. Prime Minister, there's no problem with you at all, I'm giving you information from the CIA, you love that side, the mortality rate is 13.80 per thousand people, and that's why we're in the 19th place of 230 countries. You know who's outside? Angola, Zambia, so I don't count any further. How come, Mr. Prime Minister, answer me, please, for you, there is no problem in the central biological disappearance of Serbian citizens from these areas because of the things I've brought here. When it is not in your exposés, then I cannot believe that you are an objective assessor of the situation and a man who is able to lead the government of the Republic of Serbia responsibly in the interests of all citizens of this country. Let's take a look at these resignations. If you look at them, who did you send out? Mostly experts who have academic recognised careers, and I'm free to say even some good results. You chased Mr. Skundric, a technology professor, a man who has absolute results. The final outcome of these gas deal results that many criticise, my congratulatory colleagues on the right will often say that the privatisation of NIS is incorrectly done, never mention one euro of sugar, never mention Smederevo and U.S. still, though, suffers from amnesia, but what NIS did, to make a profit out of losers, in the last year 50 and some billion losses it translated into 15 or 16 billion gains last year. It's to achieve the result and work of the man who ran this resort. Let's not list the others you've gotten rid of and who will no longer be members of your government. You didn't give us any information to convince us that the new composition would be better than the old one, none. We have a biographies ahead of us. Some of these biographies can immediately go to synopsis, as this show is called on Sundays by the White Ship. Here, let me read something. One of the candidates has been trained to work alone on a computer. The second active participant of all anti-regime rallys and demonstrations, concluded on October 5, 2000, is a member, etc. Don't get me wrong, one candidate says 2005, so put your retreat on and say today. If 2005 is on one page today, I don't even know my name. You have interesting information from Mr. Markovic. He says I'm not a member of the party, then says founder G 17, and then says vice president by 2004, so he says in 2006, I'm elected honorary party president and not a member of the party. Well done. What's a G 17? Experts, right? We see, unfortunately, that's how it is. A little later he says he's also the founder of this new region, right, the region, and yet he's not a member of the party. Okay. But what kind of government, based on what you gave us as paper, are you offering? Well, I'm free to say that you're offering us a Pakistani government, that's what the prime minister admitted, he said -- well, yeah, we get offers from the parties, and then we act accordingly. It's one lay government, why? My colleague Dulic, he deals with construction and does everything he's ever learned in his life. And he's not the only one. It's so everywhere. This is a lay government for me, you have people here with both college and expertise, but they don't deal with their duties that they're supposed to be dealing with. It's one final lay government. Next, what kind of government is this? Well, of course, it's one medical government. Of the 17 members of the four doctors they have. What do they need doctors for? They don't. What kind of doctors don't make their call? If we move on, I ask you, we have a strategy on gender equality. You say in your exposé – the government will take on the economic and political equality of women. As many men as there are here among you, 14 and three women. It's such discrimination that it's embarrassing and embarrassing. That's how you deceive Serbian citizens all the time. You're declaring one thing, the other you're doing, and I'm guessing even the third thing you're thinking. You're the kind of government that's now been offered to us, that needs to enter energy and style. Your glass broke, and when the glass breaks, there's no repairs. It's a familiar thing. We're still being indicated here that we can fantasize, some misunderstanding has come. No one believes there's been a discrepancy. This is the first act of happening in the country of Serbia, the first energy pump. The next new energy is ready to take up positions and you will have to go along very quickly with the new energy to pursue the not interest of the citizens of Serbia and the improvement, but of imaginary centres of power which, unfortunately, are not in our institutions, such as parliament and government. These imaginary centers of power are, unfortunately, in the sphere of globalism and possibly multinational capital. It's the only thing that's certain. None of us serious people can believe Mr. Mladjan Dinkic did what he did by accident. He did it planically, knowingly, deliberately and according to arrangement. You are distracting the citizens of Serbia, since the unsustainable situation is social, that you are now something new is happening. (President: Finish 'cause it's time. I'm done. My direct question, and that concludes, Mr. Prime Minister, how could you slap the political parties out of a position not to suggest from the ranks of the candidate for Minister of Health but rather a non-party figure? Since the second slap was slapped by active academic citizens, people who are absolutely understood in their call and the third slap you hit on top experts for organising the medical service in retirement, Professor Jakovljevic, Radovanovic, and not to mention, why you did not propose them for the responsibility of the health minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51801	Thank you. There wasn't so much slapping. Mr. Cvetkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51802	Dear People's MP, I'll be relatively brief and try to give answers to the two or three things you mentioned. First of all, I think it's quite in place that your remark is related to our country's biological threat, our people. The remark is not in the sense of the exposé itself, but the observation that this is something this country is facing. The government is fully aware of this problem. I know more people die than they are born. It is, unfortunately, a problem that is not only ours, but it is certain to think about it. We're going to go out with some measures that may not be completely successful at everything, but in some ways we're going to stimulate the birth and rejuvenation of this country. Anyway, I called to tell you that I feel like a really big problem. Secondly, I don't quite understand your objection about members, about the government being elected by the parties, coalitions giving their representatives who are party members. As far as I know, it's a classic situation in any country, that the party that wins to make its proposals and it's a rarer situation that these proposals are not party members. It is quite common and normal for them to be party members, and it is precisely for these members to implement party policy. I don't know, I don't remember when you were in power back in the '90s, if you were offering any experts or were your main members proposed to be ministers, deputies, etc. As I recall those main ones, they were all your members. In any case, the observation that it was necessary to clear up with political parties and introduce some experts, I think it's completely pointless. In the end, just to help you, in the interpretation, that cartoon between 2005 means "to." So it's supposed to read "2005 to today" so it's not a mistake, it's written in CV.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51803	Thank you. Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51804	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, let me get this straight. You yourself said how to come up with the proposal. Take the record, that's what Mrs. Comic would tell you, she's always well-intentioned and always finds the right solution. See if you said it yourself a few minutes ago that here's how it comes to the proposal, so the parties give it, so we're watching. What's unusual? That the parties don't give. When we were in government, we had our own representatives and we were giving. I kind of think that's normal. Don't convince me that here in the G17 parliamentary bench you don't have a good candidate for the minister. You had a secretary of state, you had an assistant minister, a health minister's assistant isn't here right now, in these benches. She's our colleague now. You have more doctors. Imagine a large DS doesn't have any ability to run the health care sector, and such a big problem. That's what I said. It's a terrible paradox. I also pointed out to you on the third paradox, that you are here in a very awkward situation bringing a man who, unfortunately, will not be able to make quality reforms in health, in order to bring these negative trends back to normal. Why? That requires knowledge from social medicine, from the medical organization, and that's what we have on the piles. We have experts from today's World Health Organization that are recognised in the world. If you opened "Politics" the other day, did you see the last name of the professor? Radovanovic, consultant at Harvard, retired. Why didn't you hire him? (President: I thank you. It was just my...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51805	I thank Mr. Momchilov. We understand. I think this is the end of this part. Mr. Markicevic, I would be happy to give you my word if you would sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51806	Dear Mr Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia who still have the patience to listen to this debate all day, Mr. Prime Minister, if we hadn't gotten your presentation or, as some like to say, "expose," printed out after an hour of break, I wouldn't believe it, because I don't think anyone can remember everything you said, that you said what you said here. I'd start with the next thing, but I admit that it can qualify to be ripped out of context, and yet it's very important. You say, "Therefore, over the next year, the government of the Republic of Serbia faces the biggest challenge, and this is daily intensive work to reduce unemployment and raise the standard of living for Serbian citizens. I would like to say from this place that the government of the Republic of Serbia will not regret the effort to succeed in achieving this goal. Serbian citizens should live better today, right now. "According to the statistics of the state authorities, which I think are under your authority, Mr. President, so, the Statistics Bureau, today 555 Serbian citizens are out of work, I don't know what salary. What did you say next? One, of these ten items that you will take immediately, against which I have nothing against, I just don't know why you waited three years, in order to facilitate the citizens of Serbia, you say: "The supply of basics – and you, citizens of Serbia, listen well to hear what the reformist, pro-European Government of the Republic of Serbia offers after three years of government – living supplies at acceptable prices for all citizens". Mr. President, whether Serbia was Sudan, whether Darfur or in 2009, as I recall, was the most natural year in Serbia's history. In the last three years, the number of citizens below the minimum level has increased, and I will not say acceptable poverty, because no degree of poverty is acceptable to me. Is it possible that after three years you're offering it? What do acceptable prices mean? If I understand correctly, the price from the stock reserves, when it comes to sugar, is 98 dinars. Monopolies sell 101 dinars. Do you think it's any consolation for the citizens? So the question arises, and I've been thinking about it all day, and these days, saying the other day I said that I was a little bit in some political and historical archives and that I didn't find that the government was so largely reconstructed for several months, and maybe a month before the elections, what's the goal of all this? Is the redistribution of power within the ruling coalition? Have you finally managed to show one of the party's chiefs, who has been part of all the coalitions since 2000, that he can't take a word of it today? I think he's been doing something positive for these three years, as I think for all the ministers who, I'm not going to say replaced, but not working in the next government, that each of them, like every man, had something positive in his work. But looking at these three years, Mr. President, and what you promised the citizens of Serbia, that didn't happen. Therefore, I conclude that you do this so-called. The government's reconstruction is not about citizens. If I were hypocritical, I'd say "Strategic Marketing" is guilty of this because in his polls he showed what the citizens of Serbia think. Tens, and maybe hundreds of thousands of citizens on February 5th showed you, before this building here they showed you what they think of their government. So I have no illusion at all to claim that all of those people who have gathered are all fans of Tomislav Nikolic, Velimir Ilic, or I don't know which other leaders of the opposition. By the way, since I mentioned the two, it seems to me that only the two of them today have talked about the needs of an ordinary citizen. Believe me, Mr. President, that citizens are full of philosophical lectures here, which I like to listen to, especially Professor Micunovic, but Serbia is starving, Mr. President. This is nice for a narrow circle of people who have some existence and who can, in various media, print and I don't know which other, burn themselves with their deluded Marxist ideas. There is currently a struggle for life in Serbia. Mr. Stankovic, I've recently been a patient, perhaps soon again, the system you'll be running in a few days. I'll show you, for the best part, what kind of answer I got as an MP for the issue of appearance and fraud with swine flu and spent 20m euros. So, I saw how it works inside your health system. Well done to the doctors and sisters. Let's not just talk about someone who took 300 or more euros. Let them be condemned, it is not disputed. It's a great honor for doctors and nurses and everyone else who works there. Just so you know, in the most elite institutions this country has in Belgrade, people don't have coats for five years. They work in difficult conditions for 30,000 dinars. It's hard to handle psychologically. I watched with my own eyes as they saved people's lives, and I owe it for what they helped me do, and I see that they help many other citizens of Serbia, too, to say it. Five years, Mr. Minister, they didn't get their coats. And someone, so let me get a warning now, stole from citizens 20 million euros, making up pig flu. There was something pigish about it, that's for sure, only the flu wasn't there, Mr. Minister. I'm telling you this because you're an officer and a general. Retired or not, I think the general should always remain a general. Do something over there. If for nothing else, at least for what I witnessed. I may have had the privilege of being an MP, of being someone's face that someone recognized and helped me urgently, but believe that people are happy. I was a witness – an appointment for a man, a soul in his nose, for a June 27th review. Now, that's Serbia, Mr. Cvetkovic, where we live. You are now gathering what you have offered the citizens of Serbia in this exposé. So I am firmly convinced today that this reconstruction is not because of the citizens of Serbia but because of the parties that make up the ruling coalition and, if this continues, you will not be able to change much, unfortunately, and I would like you to change something positive, you will lose the election. Therefore, above all DS, has managed to impose one formula on citizens – the European Union is equally a better life equal to the Democratic Party. That formula fell. I don't see a parliamentary party here that's against joining the EU. But if you say what you promised the citizens in 2008, and say that Serbia is granted EU candidate status, which will fulfill the most important task that Serbian citizens have set before it, it is not the most important task, Mr Cvetkovic. The most important task right now is to treat children, because their parents don't have money for basic drugs, to feed children, to have breakfast. As for the EU, we need a lot of these standards to meet. If we were to get candidate status in October, do you think the citizens would live better? Ask them. Go out on the street and ask them. Ask them a question -- to raise their salaries by 50 euros or candidate status, what do you think they'll choose? Or, better yet, we ask them a question to abolish all parties, to abolish both the Assembly and the Government, and to raise their salary by 100 euros, believe that 90% of Serbian citizens would vote for it, however crazy it is. Therefore, I ask you to take these warnings seriously as I tell you. No reasonable man, no patriot, no Serbian citizen would want what happens in some countries where there are major social unrest. Believe that Serbia will lock up. No opposition leaders will be able to stop that people. He will wipe out that people, when they come out into the streets, and you, as the most responsible, and also the opposition. You can do something, Mr. Cvetkovic, but you can forget the ones from the Copalniks. I well remember what that stranger who was in Davos said at a similar gathering, since the Bather is our Davos. What did the man say? Well, Davos is poor for this bathing suit. He never saw an angry car or a jeep. He saw it in the bathroom. Now, you've robbed Serbia, and I'm sorry about that, Mr. Cvetkovic, because I trusted you, trusted Mr. Vlahovic, Djelic and voted in favour of the Privatisation Act. It is your responsibility, Mr. Cvetkovic, to tell you as a man, whom I think is a good man, your responsibility is much greater than mine. You were the director of the Privatisation Agency, you sold candy for one euro each, because of you many workers lost their pay. Therefore, I ask you to think carefully about what steps you will take. From what I can see, you've had a generous offer from the opposition, you've responded arrogantly and arrogantly. Remember Serbia's recent past, as those who have acted so have passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51807	The word is Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51808	Dear People's MP, I feel obliged to answer this question, about the quote you had from the exposé, why only basic food products are mentioned, not everyone. In fact, it's about the following, when you have a phenomenon that is now a world phenomenon, it's not just ours, and it's a phenomenon that food prices grow and they grow in us and everywhere in the world, then the consequence is certain that citizens, especially those who have low incomes, find themselves in huge difficulties and have problems with, retailes, eating. At the same time, if this happens in a country that is a food producer, then certain groups appear to benefit from it. Simply put, if something cost a hundred dinars, and it was produced by a manufacturer, and now it costs 200 dinars, that producer will earn more than he's earned so far. Since we are the country that produces food and exports, the increase in food prices on macronivo and exports is very good for us, and within the country is very bad for inflation and for people who need to pay for it. Therefore, the meaning of this sentence that stands in the exposé, behind it now stands a whole series of operational measures, which I did not want to enter, is the meaning of one more active role of the stock reserves that should be up to the level of supplying the domestic population to provide under more favourable conditions than those conditions in other countries, but only to the level of balance of the quantities we need for basic products, to keep them at acceptable prices. The quantities of balances exported, let these producers export at the highest possible prices, that will be very good for the state. So the meaning of that sentence is that the state will not act neutrally and let go, so to say, well, prices rise, so what, we can, let it, that's so. No, we're going to look to protect the population and show care for the people at risk, but basically we're going to protect the entire population in these key products. That's what's in that exposé. It is a certain newspaper compared to the situation we've had. When we talk about the price of sugar, I have to tell you that this price that you seem to be a little lower than this other one, actually not a little lower, it's significantly lower, because this second price is the price of a backlog and the sugar price of a regular sale is going to come out at 110, 115, 120 dinars, maybe it's going to be under the pressure of our price, that they're also dropping because they're not going to have a buyer, but we've provided in agreement with the stock reserves of the amount of sugar at that price, which is not going to change. I say, it won't change, regardless of inflation or anything in the next six months, so until a new harvest. It was already done on a mini segment and the deal was reached about ten to fifteen days ago and it was already in place. We'll go to similar arrangements for these other cultures.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51809	Thank you. This was an explanation, because it was misunderstood. (Miroslav Markicevic: Replica. There's no right to a replica. The word is Mr. Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51810	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, candidates for government members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the SPS-JS Parliament Club fully understands the challenges, chances and problems facing the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is, the political reality that, as such, has failed the process of reshuffled the government. Since the start of the process of government reconstruction, the SPS has had one constructive and systematic approach to the process, without unargumented participation in the public and media fields. That is why we believe that today's solution is a good basis for the work of the new government, but each and every good foundation for the work of some future governments. I find it far from the truth and completely unfounded claims that have been heard today, that this government has done nothing to realize the five declared initial principles around which this government was formed. On the contrary, the results are fully visible. It may only be talked about the degree of fulfillment of the government's individual priorities, which certainly depends on the year of the government's mandate, of course, and on some of the envisaged and unforeseen circumstances that have affected the current. Therefore, the SPS-JS parliamentary club considers absolute political stability priority in the Republic of Serbia, which should hit the ground and create preconditions for the implementation of these five principles declared, and of course create conditions for the government of the Republic of Serbia, or Serbia, to make a significant step towards full membership in the European Union, i.e. to confirm the EU's bid for membership. This is certainly how the preconditions are created to adopt the necessary system laws to achieve this goal, which was also referred to by the prime minister in his exposé, as regards the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the blank resignations, the definition of public property and restitution. A clear alternative to the government, or government policy, has not been defined, has not been fully heard today. In addition, I believe that certain priorities of the government, i.e. government policy, have no alternative, such as the declared policy of preserving Kosovo and Metohija within the framework of the Republic of Serbia, or a policy that would have constitutional foundation or support of citizens in this regard. The government's reconstruction proves that all coalition actors are ready to take responsibility for even more committed, more responsible and persistent work on the realisation of the economic programme, that is, the economic policy that needs to be socially sustainable, and in this sense we absolutely support economic measures that go towards increasing employment, additional investment in agriculture, greater investment in export-oriented activity, the establishment of a development bank and, of course, a more significant approach to realisation in major infrastructure projects. The Socialist Party of Serbia and Unity Serbia certainly provide full support for the government's work, just as our ministers have worked in government until now, in very responsible resolutions, which was primarily a consistent fight against corruption and crime, then meeting the visa liberalisation map, and, of course, when it comes to traffic security, a reduction in the number of deaths by about 30%, a very significant number of injuries, which is certainly the results of the interior ministry. When it comes to energy, significant projects have been implemented, in terms of energy stability. The 250 million cubic gases in the underground warehouse in Banatski Dvor began to print. Also, Serbia's Public Enterprise succeeded, among other things, in its activities and in helping certain economic operators with major problems. I am proud to say that this was done in Žitište when it comes to Agrosiv, and today there is a very successful business operator working and hiring about 1,000 workers. The Enlightenment Resor began a reform of education and, of course, under these difficult conditions tries to improve the standard of all educational staff in agreement. When it comes to infrastructure resistor, I would also like to say that certain debts of the previous government have also been recovered, which was certainly one problem at the beginning, but also to deny some who today claimed that this ministry has done nothing in terms of harmonisation of legislation with the EU. I would like to say that in 2009 and 2010, about 25 legal projects were proposed here and adopted by the Ministry of Infrastructure and, of course, about 15 sublegal acts and several bilateral agreements. In the end, I want to say that the new government, certainly in full capacity, I want to believe, will continue to implement the principles and economic policies declared. That's why I express my full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51811	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovich. Mr Miroslav Petkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Cvetkovic, you showed today that nothing is so bad in Serbia that it can't get any worse. I know the unemployed man employs the devil, but you seem to have been a lot of dominoes for the past three years. As if you signed a coalition agreement last night, as if for the first time today you were in front of the MPs, not that you had an exposé in 2008, which is in no way different from what you brought out today. You're in some kind of reconstruction today, redesigning, retouching, rebooting, renovating, but what, Mr. Mirko? There's nothing you can do about a big one. I know zero behind the number is a certain value, but you're missing that first number. You said, Mr Cvetkovic, that the reason for the government's reconstruction is not the poor work of individual ministers, but the need to create a government that would be in line with European criteria. Great. Last week on Friday, you passed the Ministry Act and the Government Act. We didn't interfere with your business. You've removed problems, you've made a vow of silence for ministers, so you can freely choose today, to lie to yourself, in the coming period to be offended, to speak of each other with a variety of opinions, but you can also fill yourself with new energy. Mr. Cvetkovic, as the new finance minister, you will be sitting in that seat tomorrow and tomorrow you will try to explain to us all the reasons why it is good for Serbia to be in charge of the new 200m euros. Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic obviously didn't know she was working during the previous period, which is why she was replaced. Don't expect us to give you 100 days to show you how you and your new government work. There's no such thing as that, Mr. Cvetkovic. In 100 days we'll finish working here. By June, some necessary laws will be passed, and then we'll take a break. Maybe one or two more sessions and we're going to the election. It is your line, Mr Cvetkovic – no more Dinkic or my policy, there will only be government policy to implement. So what were you waiting for, Mr. President? How can we trust you? Even these yellow media barons can't help you anymore. Believe me, no one trusts you anymore. The redefined economic objectives mentioned, the increase in living standards, the halting of unemployment, the accelerated growth of economic activity, price stability, it only exists in the TV diary and in government sessions, it does not exist in real life. I was looking at some colleagues who nodded their heads today when you were talking. I just can't believe it. Serbian citizens look into their wallet and their refrigerator every morning. It is not clear to me that MPs of the ruling majority will not look into their hearts and say – is it possible that we will support this and this government? Boris Tadic made a decision on three criteria on December 10th 2008 to assess the work of ministers – the public, the profession and the political criteria, or the fulfillment of pre-election promises. Were those the criteria for which you replaced these ministers? I don't think so. Engineer Mrkonjic said in February 2009 – The government is as stable as Ludolf's number, so after two months he realized that Constant Pi is an irrational number, so you said, Mr Mrkonjic, that you would leave the government because you were not satisfied with the amount of funds you received from Minister Dragutinovic. Mr. Mirko, you were silent then. Minister Dacic said in December 2009 – I am sure the government's reconstruction is necessary. A year and a half ago. So what was waiting if the Deputy Prime Minister and the First Deputy and Minister of the Interior said he was sure there was a need for reconstruction? You kept your mouth shut back then. Mr Ljajic mentioned the reconstruction in the same period. And that's when you kept your mouth shut. President Boris Tadic said on 4 January this year that changes to the country's political system should be made and that he is not sure there will be reconstructions. You kept your mouth shut back then. Mr Cvetkovic, you were petarded by Mladjan Dinkic when he said a month ago that Serbia needs a new prime minister and that Mr Cvetkovic should be removed because he is incompetent. That's when Mirko gets restless, and then you hit your fist with your fist and you say, "You can't do that anymore, I'll cut seven ministries, or I'll put two into one." You've made an instant government, three in one -- the DS Ministry, the G17 Plus Ministry and the SPS Ministry. I really don't know how far this inventory of yours goes. What is the policy of this government towards KIM, according to the EU, towards the NATO Pact? We've got a German foreign policy, a broken economy, arrested media, depressed citizens, a burned judiciary. Mr. Cvetkovic, you haven't replaced the justice minister who managed to fight with judges, prosecutors, lawyers, citizens, the European Commission in three years. No, Mr. Cvetkovic, you have appointed Mr. Petrovic, the lawyer and former minister of justice to run the Ministry of Agriculture and Trade. So why didn't you editor the "Knowledge of Property" show bring in to implement justice reform? Why didn't you bring the Alexine miners, with all the helmet and lamp on their foreheads, to run the Health Department? I think white coats would be thrilled with that kind of solution. But you trusted the orthopedist to take care of the mining. I also need to talk about a minister who convinced us that when we're cooking lunch, we should put a lid on it to save energy, and then he gave 20 million for some pointless campaigns. The government will include the third Markovic, Mr Markovic, who wrote that he is a statesman by interest. Do you think this government is going to have any more authority over that? You, Mr Cvetkovic, said – I heard that Ciric will be proposed as minister. How did you hear? From who? From Santa Claus? Well, you're holding both the perore and the casserole, not the knife and the cake, obviously. You, Mr. Mirko, have said that coalition partners of the ministry are joining together and ministers are choosing. This is clear evidence that there are as many policies in the government as the parties make this government. You are not looking for a solution for citizens' problems, for the problems of the state, you are looking for a solution for the staff of your coalition partners. You have entered a minefield and now forgives it on all sides, but you will not say enough, but swing your hand and say, "Come with me for another year." You should have the courage to say enough. We obviously don't live in the same time, Mr. Cvetkovic. Your time, your watch goes backwards. No matter what you think or how you've acted in the National Assembly today through your exposure, be assured, we still don't know what the center of the universe is, but it's certainly not you or this reconstructed government of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51813	The word is made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51814	I'll be very brief. So, you've given some quotes and really, as you say, you've given time backwards. Those statements, I heard, were of course far back from when he really became a candidate and I was informed that he was on the table. So you can't manipulate information from different moments and put it in the present. So, at a certain point, I heard and this happened behind it. He's talking about what was in the exposé three to four years ago, of course, standing. The basic goals remain the same. Of course, when it comes to economics, it's a different situation. In the meantime, we had a huge economic crisis. That's what I was talking about here. So what I'm saying is that the goal of this exposure and the goal of this government in these years is certainly to do everything and not to regret the effort to help citizens who are really hard to live. We'll do it. How big this assistance will be for those years, that's hard to say now, but it's certain that someone's moving positive, but that's our central theme that we're thinking about daily, nightly, and we're trying to solve it. As for your proposal for various members of the government, I think these proposals are legitimate, but in a situation where you get a chance to put together a government. Then go out with suggestions and place the miners as Minister of Mining, etc. At the moment, however, the proposals are made by those who won the most in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51815	There's no reason for replication. Nothing was misread, nor was any new topic imposed that would require new explanations. The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51816	Article 27. It's about how to run the session. The fact that the vice-president of the National Assembly is being replaced at the seat of the chairman and the president of the National Assembly does not give the ruling coalition, which owns the seats in the management of the session, the right to different arches in the management of the session. If, according to a stenogram that can be easily proven, one archeological group has been used for other parliamentary groups today, I would indeed ask that these same arches be used for the DSS parliamentary group as well. I don't mean to insult anyone, but for many fewer things today, there were replicas and different exchanges of views on certain issues, and that was allowed. Don't come to the end of this debate, when there are only a few debaters left, that what today was a better practice than usual is suddenly broken. It's the only thing I'm asking you to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51817	If you're asking for an explanation, since the kind of injury you mentioned doesn't exist at all. The fact that the chairman is being replaced in this place is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The discretionary assessment of the right to replication amongst us, the chairman, different interpretations, can still be no violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, this is an explanation that I am giving you, respecting the Rules of Procedure, and with respect to the DSS right now, I give my word to Mr Zoran Nikolic, who apparently advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51818	That's right, and that's article 107. You have now not only compromised my colleague Petkovic's right, to whom you obviously had to give the right to a replica, and you have denied him the right to do so, you have in your act insulted the entire DSS parliamentary group and all those citizens who voted for the DSS. If I'm not mistaken, I ask my colleagues, Prime Minister Cvetkovic replied to Mr. Petkovic, or he responded to what he said here and what he put in your face. What does the replica deserve if not the Prime Minister's comment? Today, we attended a farsi agreement of DS and LDP to allow replicas, until the moment when Mr Cvetkovic, when the LDP had only one minute and a half more, said "I will answer you, MP Đurić, because I will give you the right to a replica". Mr Cvetkovic, it is a secret agreement of political structures within the DS and LDP. You don't say that in public. I hope you understand that. When you have now honestly responded to Mr Petkovic, then it is unacceptable and I appeal to the president that there is really no need to treat the Members of Parliament with this, with double arches. Mr. Petkovic exhibited six minutes, received a reply from Mr. Cvetkovic, i.e. certain claims and has the right to an elementary replica. Why is something that allows all MPs all day long, and especially LDP, in agreement with DS, now deny it is the right DSS? (President: I'd just like to remind you that you're wasting your time with your MP group. I'm sorry, this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I would now ask you to give Mr. Petkovic the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51819	I can't go back, I can only go ahead. Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51820	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Cvetkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers' Candidates, Mr Cvetkovic again came to the National Assembly after a little over two and a half years to request another term of office from the assembly majority, this time a term of one year. You've come to get that new time, I suppose with some new policy or continuity of politics, that's what we should have heard from you, do some things in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. In addition to saying that Serbia was hit by an economic crisis and besides saying that the goals of the new government have not changed in relation to your first government, you have virtually not looked back on those first two and a half years of your term. If it's all the same, if it's the same program, if this government was doing a great job, then the basic question to which we were to get an answer in this debate is why is the government being reconstructed in the first place? We've heard from you that you're doing this for two reasons: rationalization, better teamwork and greater government unity. If we're talking rationalization, then she had to be implemented by changing some jurisdiction, which would make some new ministries. The fact that some ministries join other ministries is far from rationalized. We'll see what happens to the ministers who resigned. If what the public says is true, some of them will be state secretaries, some will get some new seats in the administration, so it's hard to talk about rationalization. As for unity and this new energy, it is unfortunately not achieved by changing a member of the Government Act that prohibits ministers from speaking. As far as unity is concerned, the best thing that the SPS is saying before the government presented its candidates is, the G17 party did so in the Assembly that day at 1200 hours, and you only said who these people were. I think that detail says a lot more about unity than any other thing. The question is, if they're not rationalization and unity, then what's the real reason for your government's reconstruction? I agree that the objectives are important, but the National Assembly and all of us, citizens of Serbia, are much more interested in the means to achieve these goals. Many of us are more interested in concrete measures to achieve the objectives. When we look at the goals you have proposed, very few governments in the world have the same or similar goals. There is no government in the world that will say that it does not advocate the better life of its citizens. There's no government in the world that doesn't advocate the country's foreign policy position being fine. There is no government in the world today that does not implement reforms. Differences in governments and coalitions are precisely in the means, not in the goals. That's the only thing you didn't tell us today. You didn't tell us anything that was bad in those two and a half years. We expected you to hear what was good for you. I say, according to you, since we see very little good in what you've been doing for the past two and a half years. You didn't tell us what would happen to those specific policies that were being implemented. I've had a chance to hear from you that, let's say, you'll examine and review the subsidy policy for new jobs. Is that policy going to stay or won't it stay? Let's just say, since you're here and we're doing a government reconstruction, how will the school year end, what will happen to education and the demands of people in education? These are issues that interest us as MPs, who are interested in Serbian citizens. You've come up with some new goals. These are the supply of basic life supplies, increasing employment, further reducing public spending, reducing the fiscal deficit. You think it's enough to say that to get a new mandate? I have no doubt that there will be an MP here who will vote for it, but is that enough and does that give hope that in the time ahead can be better than before? Renaming the names of the ministries, cutting one and adding one to another, changing the roles within the government, is not enough to continue to be better than it was. You didn't tell us how many people were out of work, except you said everyone knew. We know very well how many people are out of work. What we're interested in is how and how long will that 200,000, 300,000 or, as the IMF says, 400,000 people get a job? This is a question that we are interested in – how long will it take from today these 400,000 people, not those who did not have a job, but 400,000 people who, when you were elected, worked, to start working? You haven't told us what is the priority today of all governments in the world. It's a wave of inflation on the world level, which won't bypass Serbia either, but in what way will your government try to fight inflation in the coming period? In January, inflation was 1.4%, in February 1.5%. The world is flooded by a wave of oil-gathering, spilling over all energy. Food prices are rising everywhere in the world, the governments of Great Britain, China of all major European countries have come out with concrete programmes to fight inflation. Pretending that this problem doesn't exist won't solve the problem. Of course, like so far, like when we warned you about the global crisis, you said it was a lack of optimism, you're not responding in time. Sugar problem, bread, flour came up six months ago. You only reacted when the prices went away twice, when everything accumulated twice the government began to react. It's not enough and it won't solve the problem that's been waiting for us for months. You haven't told us how we're going to solve our debt problems with companies. It's all those who worked for the government. You didn't tell us that it would solve the problem of 19,000 companies that met the legal conditions for bankruptcy? How many people are there who are going to lose their jobs in those 19,000 companies that have legal conditions for bankruptcy? Mr. Cvetkovic, there is no social responsibility without new jobs. The government can only be socially responsible if it creates a climate and creates conditions for new employment. The basic question for all of us is - how much will the salary increase on April 1st? Whether it will be under the law, and the law says - three-month inflation, or it will be 2.9%, which is far less than inflation will be in the first three months to come. These are the questions we expect to answer. The standard of citizens will not increase by allowing them not to pay the principals for a certain period of time. What happens when that time goes by, as you say, honey days? What happens when the honeymoons go by, with this kind of unemployment, with all the problems we're having today. Unfortunately, we expected to hear at least some of the concrete measures. We haven't heard any concrete measures, we haven't heard a logical solution. Goals aren't enough to do a job right and to do it to the end. Because there's no guarantee, there won't be any good results. And the next year and the years ahead will be harder than the years before, and you know it very well. You pointed out several times in the debate that this is actually the same coalition, that these are the same parties and that it's the same program. Well, the results will be the same, they'll be the same as they were in these last two and a half years. Serbian citizens are best aware of how devastating this data is. Mr. Cvetkovic, the same thing never makes a difference. And your government will be the same as the one that's been so far. The DSS won't support that government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51821	National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word. You have nine minutes, no full nine.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51822	As far as I can tell, no one else will speak anymore, so it's my honor to close this discussion. The main issue for Serbian citizens is – what is this government reconstruction? That it's a political circus, it is. It's also someone who's only following things on the surface clearly, but what's the point, what's going on here? Let's talk about it a little bit. The other day, we had a copy of the Prime Minister with the National Assembly, I don't know what to call it, where one letter informed us that he didn't think of respecting the law and the Constitution of this country and that everything that the Law on Government so far writes, when it comes to the deadlines and the way in which the government members are changed, doesn't really commit him. And if the Serbian Parliament accidentally dares to oppose it, according to him, it will harm its own reputation. That's how the circus started. Then there was a debate on the Law on Ministrys, then the Law on Government, a new one that should create new miles, which implies a vow of silence, so that, in the spirit of European values, ministers would be bound, as well as state secretaries and other officials, set up or elected here, that they should not say A about their opinion in public, except what the Government concludes. Such an explicit commitment is unheard and even less normal in the era and at a time when the mandate is discussed here and when it is implemented in such a way as to open the possibility of any kind of political trade in parliament. Such a government, which has not produced anything for Serbia since 2008, but for complete destruction, is entering reconstruction. What you, Mr. Prime Minister, have declared as goals, that's what's been said so far, these are general places. What you're working on is an entirely opposite of all those values you and the political party that promoted you, whose president is sitting at Andric's wedding. These funds you use do not serve you personally to build any authority, and if you do not have it, they showed events from a month ago, which are being read about by the newspaper to the day of today. In the conditions in which you have tried to implement a policy that is not clear to you, and let alone the ones we look at on the side, you have come into a situation where a new continent, a new form of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is being extorted, which is due to last until the crucial moment, which is October 12th. Why October 12th? On October 12th, the state of Serbia is expected to acquire the capacity of EU membership candidates. Those who are mentors of the project, and this project seems to be in Serbia regardless of European values, regardless of EU values for Serbia as such, these mentors expect you not to be in ruins, to be in a formal group until a certain date. That date might give us candidate status, and maybe we won't. What if he doesn't? According to your first exposé, we were supposed to get that status in 2009, so we didn't get it. According to your first exposure to the stated objectives, he is nothing different than this exposure today compared to those objectives. How do we know you're gonna do this? Not at all. And how do we know you won't? Sure, 'cause you haven't done anything in three years. For three years, it has been a decomponement orchestra of breaking empty straw, three years it has been the collapse of everything that is significant to Serbian citizens, starting with living standards, to increasing fear for their own existence and losing their jobs. Real figures say that, and real numbers aren't just statistics, as our Dick said – what you want, that picture, but the reality, the one that's waiting for us when we get out of these benches and when we go to the supermarket, and when you get yourself into line with the citizens, like I do every day, and you get in line and look at the baskets of people standing in line at the supermarket. Every seven or eight citizens have carts full. Others buy flour, oil, sugar, coffee, newspapers, eggs, and some other products. It's their daily basket and they can't pay for anything else, so they may not be able to pay for some other obligations and some benefits for which so far there has been no concrete sanctions, because the state has been waiting for them for a long time, and soon in the first city in Serbia, Cačka, a demonstration of the state's power begins and an exorbitation of fear by taking away objects. That's probably what you're up for, that's how you think you're filling the budget. But, Mr. Cvetkovic, you don't charge the budget with production because nothing is produced in this country. You charge the budget exclusively and only by borrowing. Those debts will have to be paid back by someone else. You don't have any concept. Your story shows no clear concept of economic policy. What kind of finance minister are you going to be? What did you even tell us about it here? What's the difference between you and Diana Dragutinovic? Why is she no longer in that place but now you're here, very smart and capable? You want to save something? Well, in the country, it's not savings by reducing the number of ministers and joining the ministries, because those who need to do the job stay in number because the jobs haven't been cut down, the way you see them. Those who expect you abroad, who have set you up, to solve the problem of Serbia's position in international politics by defacto giving up Kosovo and Metohija, and selling to the people of Serbia empty straw about the great days waiting for us in the EU, these same people expect you to be calm until 12 October. This peace, your inner peace, your inner peace until October 12th, thanks to the stage in which you brought Serbia, the citizens of this country will pay dearly to their wallets, will pay with their bellies, because you are unable to create an environment in which they can attract, work and earn and because you are unable to talk to the same EU, not only obediently to meet all that they tell you, set the conditions for talking about simple things. The other day, I read in the paper, whether it's true or not, that we're going to get a standard for burgers and for a kaymak. If that's what you're offering us tomorrow, then you better not offer us anything, resign and leave, because that's the only solution for all of us. Please, thank you very much, pleasant and goodbye. Say hello to all of us. Call it, President, an extraordinary parliamentary election. Let's disband this government, let it resign and have better days for the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51823	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51824	Dear People's MPs, I want to thank everyone for this participation in this debate. There have been a lot of questions, there have been suggestions and I can say that, in general, I think I have managed to get through the exposés and through the answers to these questions to show that the new government will accomplish the tasks ahead of it. In that name, I invite you to support her and allow us to do these serious obligations that are ahead of us, and I also want to tell the citizens that the government will do everything to make life easier for them and to create the basis for some significant improvement in the period ahead, but even to help directly in this situation as it is. Thank you. I urge you to vote for this reconstructed government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-14-0.u51825	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, since there are no more members of the Parliament's groups registered for the word before the search is concluded, I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, have not used the right set out in Article 96. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. According to Article 269(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby schedule on 14 March 2011 as the Voting Day on the motion for candidates for members of the Government. We'll approach the vote at 9:10 p.m. [[After break – 21.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision, we need to determine the quorum according to Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the National Assembly session, so please insert identification cards into MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 129 MPs in the hall, i.e. that there are more than 126 of us, so there are conditions for deciding. Switched to decision-making. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a proposal for the election of members of the Government, I remind you before moving to a decision, under Article 269(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide on a proposal to elect members of the Government in general by a secret vote, unless it decides to vote publicly. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by a roll call. I suggest that the National Assembly on a proposal to elect members of the government vote publicly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted in favour of the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on a proposal to elect members of the government. Before the vote, I remind you, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 9. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of Government members, elects most of the votes of all MPs, and in accordance with Article 15(2). The Government Act, the election of members of the Government, is decided by the National Assembly as a whole. I also remind you that it's Article 131. The Rules of Procedure set out the procedure for public voting by a call and that, according to that provision, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly invites the MPs and calls them by the alphabetic order of the last name. People's MPs who approach the vote say the word "yes", "no", or "abstained". The president reiterates the name and the name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determines that he is absent or does not wish to vote. The Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall write down a statement by the MP or his absence on his behalf and his last name on the list. The decision is considered to be made when the president of the National Assembly finds that it was voted by the majority prescribed by the Constitution, which is the majority of the total number of MPs. I now put to the vote a proposal to elect members of the government as a whole, and we approach the vote by calling the MPs. I ask the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, Mr. Veljko Odalovic, to make the call of the MPs by the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement. (General Secretary Veljko Odalović makes the call of the National MPs: Avramović Milan – absent, Agatonović Borjan – za, Alexić Boris – absent, Aligrudić Miloš – v, Andrić Ivan – absent, Antić Zoran – absent, Arsenović Veroljub – absent, Aćimović Dragan – absent, Babić Zoran – absent, Babić Zoran – absent, Bajatović Dušan – for, Banović Donka – gone, Bečić Igor – absent, Bozović Dragoslav – za, Bortić Zoran – za, Vjestovičko Željko – for, Bulgariačić Marija – absent, Budirović Jelena – absent, Buha Milorad – absent, Varga Laslo – za, Vjeljinović – za, Vjesutanović, Vidinović – za, Vidinović – za, Vžanović – Zažar, Zažinović – Zažno, Zažinjažno, Zažno, Zažna Žradna Žradnažinjavč, Zažno, Zažno, Žradč, Žović, Žović, Zažjavčić, Zažjavić, Zažjavić, Zažović, Zažić, Zažak, Zažvić, Zažak, Zažak, Zažalić, Zakt. Since we've held a vote by calling the MPs, I'm concluding the vote and just a little while to wait for the assembly. People's MPs, allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 148 MPs who joined the vote, 129 MPs voted for a proposal to elect members of the government. There were 19 MPs against the proposal. There were no abstentions, nor were there those who refused to be heard. Since 129 MPs voted for a proposal to elect members of the government, representing most of the MPs, I find that the National Assembly has decided to elect members of the Government in the proposed composition. Let me call on your behalf and on my behalf the members of the government and congratulate them on their choice. I ask the members of the Government to, in accordance with Article 16(2). Government law, approaches the oath. (The president reads, and members of the government repeat the text of the oath. ) "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and with my honor, I pledge to respect the constitution and the law, that I will perform my duties as a member of the Government with security, responsibility and commitment and be committed to the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia." I ask the members of the government to sign and hand over the text of the oath. Congratulations once again on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf and I want success in our government's work. I ask the MPs to stay and after congratulating, we should finish the session and discuss tomorrow's work. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to move to the National Assembly's decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure that the MPs have pointed to. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 14 March 2011, at 17.50 p.m., points to a violation of members 27 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. We'll have to determine the quorum. Please insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Of 128 MPs, one for, 127 against. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Please, just another brief notice, or sitting session. Consistent with Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Also, in accordance with Article 101(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform the MPs that the National Assembly will continue its work on the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2011, on 15 March, at 10.00 p.m. Thank you.
