ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53341	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. To determine how many of us are in the O.R., I ask the MPs to put the cards in the MPs. I find that at this point, there are 85 MPs in the hall, which means there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Rule 286 of our Rules of Procedure. (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53342	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, at the very beginning, I would like to express my condolences on behalf of the Liberal Democratic Party and full solidarity with the citizens of Mine and Belarus, after yesterday's, apparently, terrorist attack that took place, and any kind of help. Of course, that just confirms the importance of what we're talking about here all the time. These are the challenges of the modern world, the danger of terrorism, the need for countries to connect, integrate into security alliances, blocks and thus lead to this fight more organised and efficient. Let me get back to the question. I have a question for the Prime Minister, and I would like, when I get an answer, the answer really to be from the Prime Minister. Last week I received an answer to a parliamentary question I asked two or three weeks ago, which was referred or signed by the deputy prime minister. Of course, I don't believe that he was dealing with giving an answer to that question, he simply signed as Deputy Prime Minister on duty, but my question was not even addressed to the government, but exclusively to the prime minister, since it was related to the economic area. So my question today is, if the prime minister answered me, what are two or three measures that will be taken in the next few months that Serbia, at least 2011, would not end up as a country with the most convincingly worst performances in the region? Two days ago, projection estimates came out, one file practically for the Balkan countries, when it comes to the effects of their governments' economic measures, the way and efficiency of the response to the global economic crisis, and Serbia is not a leader in the region but by all these parameters, by all performances, or the last or the last. We're leaders at the inflation rate. Last year, inflation in Serbia was 20 times higher than in Montenegro. When we prepared that press release yesterday, some people in the party asked us to check several times that it was not a mistake. Our deputy president Nenad Milic, who has this police experience, and always believes in the strength of purely written evidence, asked us to check it several times. It is true, inflation is twenty times higher in Serbia than in Montenegro. Of course, one of the reasons for this and Montenegro has introduced the euro as its currency, but it is one of the reasons LDP has been pushing for the introduction of a double currency system for years. The rate of inflation in Serbia is ten times higher than in Croatia. It is 1% there, and in Serbia it was over 3%, i.e. 10.3% in the past year. The unemployment rate is twice as high in Serbia as in Croatia and Montenegro. I don't even want to talk about profits. What's worst for the citizens of this country is they're constantly being sent a message that it's a natural state, that it's an evil fate. Serbia can, according to all economic parameters, be comparable to the countries of the region and be even ahead of them, only other countries have made some political decisions that Serbia is not yet ready to make and are not ready to make political parties in Serbia. First of all, those two who love to describe themselves as the biggest and most influential, who are having this pointless debate these days about who will first cut and announce that the elections will be December 18th, although everyone in the country knows that, of course, the elections will be in December. That's why my question is about this year, what we're going to do in front of the citizens. All these other countries have made those decisions. All are either fully integrated into NATO or very close to integration. Much further away from us in European integration and implemented internal market reforms. It's not where the company's re-statement is carried out, it's the process that's the other way around. These are countries that have begun reforming their public sector, public enterprises. In Serbia, the Tax Administration must not control public enterprises, even in that sense whether they use illegal software. Officials of the Tax Administration, I saw it this morning at the Public Service – RTS, even boasting that at the moment it will not control public enterprises and citizens, but it will therefore enter private companies, into the private sector and lead some order there. This is direct discrimination, such as the offensive response I mentioned and which I received last week, my question was how much of the state guarantee was activated, how much did we pay, just for three public enterprises, in 2009 and 2010, EPS, "Serb Roads", "Serb Railways"? The answer is offensive – no guarantee is activated, but the state has used its right to pay instead of the primary debtor. The second question was, when will the state get their money back? The answer is in one sentence – within a legal period; although the legal term has passed long ago. When the government rocked here two months ago, there were many objections to what it was doing or what the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Dinkic were doing, that subsidies in the private sector are too big for a new job. If you look at the annual subsidies that go to the Serbian railway, it is 160m euros for 20,000 workers. We pay 8,000 euros each year per employee of the "Serb Railways" for nothing, and so on year after year. I expect this response to the government at least to be something more serious than the last one.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53343	Anybody else answer for a word? The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53344	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I will ask a question concerning the establishment of state borders. It is known in international law, as well as national law, that the determination and determination of state borders is an important state business, a state issue, a matter of sovereignty and integrity. Last year, the SRS sent a motion for a resolution on establishing a state border with the Republic of Serbia. It is known that we have no established state borders with the other republics of the former Yugoslavia, neither BiH nor Montenegro nor Macedonia. It is known that there is one working group, or commission, working to establish the state border, but it has been 20 years since the break-up of the former Yugoslavia, and we have no established state borders. The question of responsibility is, who is responsible for this situation in this area? The government is responsible. My question concerns who works in this commission, what are the activities of this commission and the most important issue – what is the strategy of this commission? From the means of information, following a three-way meeting of our president with the prime ministers of Croatia and Slovenia, the newspaper "Blic" published information that they agreed on borders at a three-way meeting, among other things. It wasn't a central question, but it was discussed. According to information that this list has come to, and the Croatian press has published something on this issue, a secret agreement has been reached. Why secrets? There's a commission. Why isn't she working? Are the constitutional powers of the President of the Republic to make arrangements? It's not his constitutional decree and he doesn't have those rights. However, he is involved in everything, including this area. As for the state border with the Republic of Croatia, it is open. The area of Baranja, Eastern Slavonia and Western Srem, has never been established by any international legal act. It is currently occupied territory, it is the territory of Republika Srpska, the issue has been opened for several reasons and with several aspects. One of the aspects is historical, the other is cultural, demographic, etc. The area of Slavonia and Baranja was never territorially, administratively, educationally, etc., related to Croatia. It is therefore very important, from the point of view of the SRS, to establish a strategy. Without a clear national strategy on border-determining, no one has the right, under the provisions of the Constitution and under the provisions of many laws, to negotiate and negotiate the issue of state borders, as well as other major and vital problems of our country. On the other hand, at the same three-way meeting, according to even statements by participants of this three-way meeting, our President Boris Tadic said he is ready to withdraw his countersuit against the Republic of Croatia. For the sake of the public, the SRS must point out the devastating consequences of the withdrawal of the countersuit. For what? Because we are being sued by the Republic of Croatia for genocide against the Croatian people. On the other hand, during 2009, the government adopted a countersuit that made it clear that genocide was committed against Serbs from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. No one has the right to drop that countersuit, precisely because of genocide. The character of the war crime genocide, as the most terrible crime, is that politicians can't agree on it. If this is addressed to the International Court of Justice in The Hague, it is the International Court of Justice in The Hague that will decide whether there was genocide or not. The previous withdrawal deal is a criminal offense. We're warning the President of the Republic to get serious. There's no deal. Republika Srpska's government, in persecution, has repeatedly pointed to an agreed policy by the president of the state, which has said in the last year and a half on several occasions that it is ready for compromise and agreement. The Croatian side, which launched it in 1999, comes out with the same views. It is unacceptable and harmful for Serbian national interests to withdraw the issue now through agreement from court proceedings. In addition, certain initiatives were launched at this three-way meeting...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53345	Time, Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53347	Does anyone else want a word in this article? (Yes) Mr. Lapcevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53348	Dear Presidency, I will refer the question to the Ministry of Finance to answer what our economic policy is, and how do the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia plan to maintain stability in the country, in terms of inflation and in terms of the country's sustainable borrowing? In the previous year, Serbia was the leader in Europe at the level of inflation, which was 11.6%. In the first three months of this year, inflation was 5.5%, which is estimated to be more than 14% year-on-year. In every normal country, when inflation exceeds 3%, the level of alerts is raised to the highest possible level, because this means that relations in the country will be completely disrupted and that the economy will suffer the greatest damage and if inflation is above that level. In the last three years, we had a rapid increase in the deficits in the republic's budget, from the previous 14 billion, as it was in 2008, to 50 billion in 2009, and 107 billion in 2010, to reach 120 billion dinars for 2011 the planned budget deficit. Over the past few months, food has increased by more than 11%, and the consumer basket has jumped by over 30%. The price of oil derivatives is among the largest in the region and currently amounts to around 1.30 euros per litre of any petrol, either a euro diesel, which is certainly one of the biggest prices in Europe, and in this structure prices, excise taxes and taxes are far the largest in all countries in the region. In such a situation, in addition to real inflation that is more than 5.5% in the first three months, the euro fell from 107 dinars in December to 101 dinar today. It is just amazing that inflation is growing, that prices are rising, that food prices are far more than they were last year, and that, on the other hand, the euro is falling. State officials say that this is a good signal and that it is in fact a signal that foreign investors' confidence in the state of Serbia is growing and that this will reflect, in a positive sense, and on the borrowing of citizens, which is certainly true in the short term, but the question is whether this is a sustainable situation and how long will it go? If we bear in mind that, from the planned four billion euros of foreign direct investment to the day of today, no euro has entered, a legitimate question arises – how does the state influence that the euro is falling and that prices are growing unsustainable on the other hand? As far as economists are concerned, the answer is obvious and clear, that the Serbian state has sold huge amounts of government bonds over the past few months, and thus, by pumping foreign currency through banks, the demand for dinars has dropped and it is logical that there will also be a drop in the euro. However, given that these government bonds will be charged in three, six months or a year, it is logical to expect that the euro will then significantly jump and that the state of Serbia will suffer economic collapse. My question is concrete to the Ministry of Finance – how many states of Serbia have sold state records in the previous three months? Who were the biggest buyers, and how much on this basis will the state budget have to pay interest on these state records, what will be the direct cost of the budget, and will be borne by citizens of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53349	The People's MP, Hope Kolundji, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53350	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question will essentially be rhetorical and I'm asking it to the government. I ask the question – did the Government of the Republic of Serbia change its policy, because we know that the policy of this government, and not only of these governments but also of the previous governments, has been, until now, hopefully, in the future, that the crimes will be individual, so that there are no criminal states and that every effort of the state and government, including the President of the Republic, to carry out a full individualisation of the crime, and thus to remove responsibility, among other things, from Serbia, the policy and strategy that this country is leading and also led by the President of the Republic? Is it still a constitutional provision that the President of the Republic represents and represents the Republic of Serbia and represents the state unity of the Republic of Serbia, because if so, then it is his constitutional authority to represent the country, to represent the interests of its citizens, and to seek solutions in this representation that are in the best interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Is it still the government's policy to recognise the sovereignty of other countries, and that all border disputes, including other disputes, are resolved by peaceful means, by seeking compromise solutions? Because here we have heard accusations that someone is violating constitutional provisions, that someone is making allegedly some kind of secret deal, that someone is making moves that are supposed to be at the expense of Serbian citizens. We, when we voted for this government, authorized this government. Citizens, when elected by the President of the Republic, gave him confidence to exercise their constitutional powers and to conduct politics according to that policy established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia voted in a programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in which I repeat, the sovereignty of other states is recognised. We believe that individuals are responsible for the crimes and that they should respond and that everyone, anyone, is trying to accuse the state, and we know that Serbia has one such accusation and a potential other, that this is causing huge damage to the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. That's why I think anyone who tries to apply different criteria is actually doing huge damage to the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53351	The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53352	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask Prime Minister and Minister Ciric - did they draw up a plan to resolve unemployment in the Sandzak region, specifically in Novi Pazar, as a regional centre, since nearly 30,000 citizens of Novi Pazar do not have a job? I have repeatedly asked here for the government to try and find strategic partners, as it did in the Zastava case, and thus hasten employment in Kragujevac. For this purpose, the government had to separate a few hundredm euros, which in infrastructure, into a joint investment in the company. With the help of the Fiat, the government has allocated tens of millions of euros to invest in the Old Mountain, which is welcomed by Sandzak citizens. When it is difficult for Bora and industry in Bora and Majdanpek, the government separates 100m euros and some million euros to make new furnaces, not to go bankrupt, to employ several thousand people there. When it is difficult in Kursumlia, Simpo reports and employs 350 people with one wave, and this is welcomed by the Sandzak citizens. When a Parisian factory is due to go bankrupt, "Srbigas" reports, converts the debt, enters the capital, not fail. The second budget in our country, after the republic, is the budget of the city of Belgrade. When the PKK is due to go bankrupt, the city of Belgrade comes forward and says -- we don't let the PKK go bankrupt, we want to hire two thousand and a few people there, we want to hold that company. Only in Sandzak is the government of the Republic of Serbia never once comes up with a strategic plan, to say "Vojin Popovic" is very important and regional is an economic player, we'll make a strategic plan, we'll invest 10-20 million in this combination, we'll put it on our feet, and then we'll look for a strategic partner. That's what we're supposed to do in Pryce. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come up with a strategic economic plan as soon as possible, with a clear plan, an action plan, which is time-limited, what will it do to resolve the African unemployment rate in Novi Pazar?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53353	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Zoran Nikolic (until 24 April), Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vučković, Branka Ljiljak, Marko Djurisic, Oedip of the Sheriffs and Konstantin Samofalov. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby inform you that I have also invited Mr Dragan Sutanovac, Minister of Defence and Nebojsa Ciric, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, the First Vice-President of the Government, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, to attend: Dragan Radulović, Secretary of Defence, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Ilija Pilipović, Assistant Minister of Defence, General Prof. Dr. Bojan Zrnić, Head of Defence Technology at the Ministry of Defence, Milorad Peric, Head of International Military Co-operation at the Ministry of Defence, Branislav Zec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Milan Josipović, Deputy Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Minister of the Ministry of Defence and Regional Development, Minister of the Ministry of Defence and Regional Development of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. We're continuing our work. We move to the 13-15th item of the agenda: – THE PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF CONSERVATION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE CRIME AND THE CONSTITUTION OF THE SECURITAL ASSISTANCE AND THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE PUBLICATION AND THE PROTECTION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLICATION (jointly Single Search) I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 97, we are going to move to the 13-15th point of the agenda: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be distributed in the following way: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia has one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Plus parliamentary group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS parliamentary group – Vojislav Kostunica – 24 minutes; the SPS – JS – 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the sending group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group – six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I would like to inform you that representatives of the parliamentary groups are authorised on these agenda points: MP Sasa Dujovic – MP group SPS – JS, MP Jovan Palalic – Ambassador group DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Vlajko Senic – United regions of Serbia, MP Boris Aleksic – SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Dragan Sutanovac, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53354	Namely, I will explain the two proposals that came from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. The Home Secretary is officially absent, so today I'm going to replace him here in parliament. The first item is the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is represented by the Ministry of Defence and the Group of National Directors of NATO, for codification. It's primarily a decent question, not a military question. It is an international system of product advertising, weapons and military equipment, including all logistics needs. This codification standard is heading towards an industrial standard and it is very possible that it will be adopted as an industrial standard in some future period. This standard currently covers 63 countries in the world, of which 28 NATO member states and 35 non-NATO countries. Some of them have absolutely no direct connection with NATO, but they want to be in a standard that allows their defence industry to place its products in all countries operating by that standard. I remind you that by codifying our defence industry, they'll get codification numbers for every product they own. It will be found in all world catalogues and it will be extremely important that what we've done so far as we've done as a very great success finally gets our standard, which will allow us to appear in those countries where we haven't been able to get in because of the lack of that number. I stress that this is not about anything that has anything to do with politics. It's just that today when you have a problem accepting that there's something that's standard, and at the same time unfortunately there's a lot of ignorance. I'll tell you that among the 35 countries that have accessed that code are countries like Russia, Brazil, India, and that I don't read the names of the other 32 countries, which suggests that there is a high level of consciousness in those countries. I am convinced that there will be a high level of consciousness right in this House, that it respects the needs of our defence system, but above all, our defence industry, which, as you know, has seen an extremely large increase in exports of our weapons and military equipment in recent years. With this standard, I can say, we expect to make better results, because then we show up in books we haven't had before. The co-operation agreement was signed in Edinburgh on May 20th 2010, and practically with ratification, in the Serbian parliament, we would finally join NATO's codification system. I think it's something that really needs to be supported, because it's not political support, it's economic support, it's support for the development of our industry, and I hope that the MPs who come from cities and municipalities in which our industry exists will support such a contract. I have no doubt that out of misunderstanding some MPs will have a problem accepting that we are doing something with NATO, but if we say that in that standard all countries of Europe, when I say "all countries", I mean all EU countries, then it is enough to say that it is extremely important for us. On the other hand, I would like to remind you of a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on police co-operation in the fight against organised crime, that the Ministry of Interior has recently produced extremely large results in the development of international co-operation, and that the interior ministry has signed a large number of co-operation contracts in the field of police affairs, which allow a large number of criminals to be found behind bars, where they belong. The agreement was signed at the initiative of Interior Minister Dacic during his visit at the end of January 2009, and was signed on 17. 12. 2011 Okay, I've got it wrong here, but it doesn't matter. Co-operation established by this agreement relates to forms of criminal activity, especially organised crime, terrorism and its financing, crimes against life and health, trafficking in human beings, trafficking in illegal migration, crimes against children, drug trafficking, cyber crime, arms trafficking, crimes related to cultural and historical items, counterfeiting of money, and other counterfeits. The competent authorities shall, through this Agreement, exchange information, coordinate activities and provide mutual support in the work, with the possibility of establishing joint bodies and sending experts to another country of signatories. By respecting your time and complete justification for accepting these two laws, I have reduced my exposure to the shortest possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53355	Does legislator Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53356	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, seems that most of the other heads of Parliament want to somehow avoid discussing this issue precisely because of what you said yourself in your brief presentation. Of course, it is not possible to discuss NATO, and to bring NATO into the economy and ignore the political aspect arising from the great silence that we consider to be evidence of our society's weakness and the state's determination towards NATO. We think it is not enough to say that 63 countries accept this NATO standard, and that you would be absolutely right to talk about the economic aspects of the decision we make, that this country has previously said what it wants in its relationship with NATO. The call for Parliament's resolution of December 2007, which contains only one sentence declaring us to be a set of military neutrality, is no longer sufficient today. It's practically unsustainable. The relationship with NATO is one of the key political issues that we, even with our silence, are giving an answer. That answer is not satisfactory. It is not satisfactory for those who oppose Serbia's NATO integration, and it is not satisfactory for those of us who want Serbia to join NATO as quickly as possible. One reason we insist on connecting and a clear partnership and Serbia's participation in NATO is, of course, the economic benefit, which follows. We can see him here, he's so clear and he's not at all controversial, since he's also acceptable to countries that are not members of NATO. Mr. Minister, we're interested in politics. Of course, we won't be able to get any concrete answers today, as we couldn't get before. We consider silence, or calling for one sentence of the 2007 Resolution, actually evidence of confusion in which the country is located, but also weaknesses. As a party, we opened and raised the issue in talks with representatives of the Russian Federation, here in the Assembly, with the President of the Russian Government. We also open this issue in a dialogue that we have with representatives of other countries that come to Serbia, or those we meet in the world. First of all, we ask that question in contact with the representatives of our region's authorities. Mr Sutanovac, NATO sees itself as the only effective and concrete path Serbia is taking out of too wide isolation. We are not just lagging politically behind our neighbours and the whole region, we are falling back economically. Yesterday, defeating parameters described by Serbia as a country in which inflation is ten times higher than in any country in our neighbourhood, the number of unemployed is twice as high as in any neighbouring country, and the level of industrial production is at a growing level of 50% of what Serbia produced 20 years ago, more precisely in 1989, with which we are last compared due to the chaos that followed it. Mr. Sutanovac, it is not disputed that we will support this. On the other hand, there is one question that your government must answer. He can be positive and he can be negative, but he needs to be clear. What kind of political divide is expected in Serbia, so in the future it will be possible to say what is logical and what is clear to anyone who is seriously involved in politics? We cannot achieve any of our national goals if we run away from the path that all other societies of the Eastern European region have set out to pursue, achieving their national goals. When we talk about the EU, then we see NATO not only as a shortcut to EU membership but also as the only link that can connect what is as different between us as the different system of EU and Serbia values. We didn't need a break on the Law on People's MPs or blank resignations to figure out how incompatible our systems are. Through what form of co-operation will Serbia change valuablely? We think, among other things, inevitable: both through co-operation with NATO and the process of integration that everyone else has set out around us. Of course, the Secretary of Defense can't make that decision, but you're the vice president of the DS. When will there be greater support for such policy in Serbia than the one we currently have? Is NATO always going to be a theme that we're going to extend because it's not popular to go meet her? In 2008, we clearly defined the policy that the country needs to change. Not only has this policy not been achieved, it has never tried to realize it. What was positive in your government, and it's mostly about your ministry, bypasses one truth. You came to that ministry with politics, so you made him do something the ministry never did. You didn't come to that ministry as an economist. The fact that someone is working with our military industry today speaks of the compatibility of our military industry with a single tax system that exists in the world. There's no political compatibility. We're interested in when she'll be established. Of course, the relationship to NATO is the essence of political reforms in Serbia. In this way, the ability of this society to establish connections and step forward along with those it is reportedly moving towards. Very often, in response to our NATO membership issue, we need to listen to the reminders of 1999. We think that because of that 1999 Serbia should start to meet. Despite this great conflict and conflict, we must develop co-operation with NATO in the same way that after World War II we developed co-operation with Germany, a country that destroyed us in World War II, and not compare Germany and NATO, not to play foreign minister again. I think you know very well what I'm talking about, and that's why you said those three sentences here, and the ruling coalition is silent. In three or four days, Belgrade's largest opposition party, which represents itself, will organise a rally. You said that rally was a threat to the legal order of the country. We think that without that rally and without your definition, Serbia is not what it could be. The problem in which it is, above all, produces uncertainty and the absence of a clear vision that undisputedly polarises our society, but opens the perspective of doing something useful. When we made a decision in 2001 to co-operate with The Hague tribunal, 90 per cent of Serbia was against the decision. We did not have a dilemma about the moves that we should take, because we were aware of this simple truth that Serbia cannot change by constantly ruling our society, which is a hostage of political mistakes that are too often made in the past, and which took away the possibility that, on the basis of fact at all, it can rationally conclude and make political decisions. So, Mr Sutanovac, when the Russian prime minister tells us that he has nothing against Serbia's membership in the EU, but that Serbia's NATO membership is a threat to Russia's national interests, then by translating it into Serbian, we can only understand it as a definition of the Serbian path to Europe, the route that Serbia will never reach, and as a punishment for Serbia for not being able to formulate its own interests, the means that will come true, and the deadlines in which such a thing will happen. We're a few months from the election. Talk to the government about NATO once already. It's a way to break the broom we live in and crystallize the political issues around which society is divided. We believe that NATO is a shortcut for Serbia to go to insulate Serbia. NATO is no threat to Russia's interests. As Serbia enters NATO, it does not expand NATO towards it, as we hear it every day, we are still two time zones from its borders. Between us and them are still countries that are members of NATO. It connects us to a region that's genetically deformed to the extent that we're all some kind of war generation. We live in a place in Europe where time and life are determined by war. State - before and after war, schools – before and after war, and these are our realities. This is no longer a question of political courage, but of agreeing to a policy of masochism, because you came here with a theme of NATO, tied hands, to speak of NATO as it should be spoken of, but that is why those who are NATO critics will take advantage of their time and destroy both you and your government, even though you haven't even mentioned NATO. They don't have that dilemma at all. So, Mr. Sutanovac, if we're changing Serbia and taking it to Europe, and this one of the arguments for something like that, then let's put all the cards on the table and set them in a comprehensible language. If this is business co-operation, Serbia's path to NATO, you have absolutely our support. If business co-operation is an attempt to protect some of the interests that the Ministry of Defence is concerned about, and these are employees of companies in the military-industrial complex, who have to trade with someone, work, and accept these standards, without being able to raise it to one higher level, then we make a mistake, because NATO is what political decision was made first and we don't think that Serbia should be a NATO member in order to wage war around the world. But we think that we are obliged, with our experience, with our character, which exists, which cannot be disputed, with a place that stems from the fact that we are part of this civilization, to take on the burden of responsibility that follows everyone, so if Croatia can do so, if Montenegro, if Macedonia can, if Hungary can, if Bulgaria can, if Romania can, if BiH, with all the Dodiks in it, then Serbia has to do so. And already this year, he's making something so clear he's saying that we're going to go into politics elections, not politics elections with confusion to choose parties without politics. Often, political responsibility is mentioned in Serbia, it does not exist because there is a political vision. Then what is the responsibility of this government; "Fiat" in Kragujevac? Well, that's not enough. Unachieved European objectives? That's not true. Is anyone in Serbia satisfied? It's not? For what? It is precisely because of the lack of this width and clear picture, in which the topics we have discussed will be stages in the development of our society, in correcting inherited anomalies, in the willingness to understand the world in which we live, rational treatment. That's what LDP needs. In 2007, we talked about it in December, Mr. Sutanovac, when we passed a resolution rejecting Ahtisaari's proposals. Well, look at today three years later. Most Serbs in Ahtisaari's norms find protection for themselves, in the policy we led at the time did not get what they needed. The whole resolution is a set of nonsense today. She's a compromise for anyone who participated in her adoption, but we stick to that one sentence, that fig leaf that no longer hides anything, is more transparent than an open window. You can see more through that sheet than you can see through an open window. We can't hide behind that anymore. We expect this topic to be launched at the political level. It's not enough for us to do something like that. We don't have enough satisfaction in the fact that in this country, the number of people who understand what I'm talking about has doubled. Today, over 20% of them are looking for what the LDP is looking for. Twenty-five, thank you. But that's not enough. I'll tell you clearly why. Because Serbia cannot be there with one half and the other outside the alliance. We believe that talking about NATO is a dialogue on this, a way of formulating, a strategy that will develop this society. Respect for some historical necessity. We don't think we're going one way to be in conflict with the other, but when is that question going to be asked if Russia's opinion affects him to a large extent? We absolutely have nothing against their opinion, so it stems from the country's interest, but we here in parliament, in a conversation with the Russian Prime Minister, have heard that no one but us has asked the question. There is some rhythm in mutual relations, for the last time a representative, or Russian government president, was in Serbia ten years ago. It's not like we've been waiting ten years to start that issue. So, in 2020? What will remain of the country, what will be of Serbia then, if after ten years of internal reforms, unfortunate and confusing? Clearly, NATO on the table and fighting for a fair dialogue with society, justified, based on facts, and they are undeniable. They say there are more historical allies of this people, our people, Mr Sutanovac, in NATO than outside NATO, that more Slovenes are in NATO than outside NATO, that there are more Orthodox people in NATO than outside NATO. We're not counting millions, Mr. Sutanovac. We're counting churches. Let's not count millions now, people. If the Greeks, Bulgarians, Macedonians, Montenegrins, Romanians, I guess we can, or we're more Orthodox than anyone. I don't think these are key arguments, there are political, reasonable arguments that can be classified in that way, and they show us the same thing. Where are our partners today? We don't have them. You were in Paris, you signed a strategic partnership with the President of the French Republic, so he corrected France's relationship with NATO four years ago, right? And left De Gaulle's approach, which was also followed by Shirakov, in his last term, which distanced France from NATO. He brought France back to NATO. We said the French are our key partner in the European integration process. What is this partnership based on? We said here in Parliament: establish when you speak of Libya, let us speak of the people, and not of Gaddafi. Sarkozy confessed to the Bengazi Committee, and that's what we asked for seven days ago from our foreign minister; he didn't do something like that. Sarkozy is at war in Afghanistan, in UN formations, and we're not in partnership with him there either. What is the basis of this strategic partnership of ours, when we do not share fate in any of the problems that France is in today, or we are not an actor of any solution that France insists on. I'm telling you, correct me, I'd like to make a mistake, and if everything were the opposite, if we were partners with France in NATO, that our expectations and availability of French support were built on the assessment of France that through such a relationship with Serbia she would do a favor to her partner who was helping her and who was useful to her, but I don't think there's any fact that such an approach supports her. We can talk here at the level of this law, it's not in itself controversial, we'll accept the standards of the normal world that NATO defined, and then share with everyone. I think that's enough. We will not be an obstacle to people who work in the military industry and who, in this way, want to strengthen their ties with NATO and build as high-quality a position as possible throughout the world that NATO appreciates, so it accepts it. In the end, Mr. Sutanovac, it seems to me that everyone else will do a lot more in this relationship than we do, and even those why we're not ready to do something like that right now, and that, as in all other situations, we're going to stay on the line of events. I hope you didn't take this as a personal criticism, but I expect you to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53357	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53358	By fenced from this part where you said we were genetically deformed, I don't want to honor you here, but I'm afraid you're using a dictionary that isn't suitable. I want to say that, as you have announced the possibility of abuse of those who are against NATO, on this subject, so you abuse as one who is for NATO. It's just a fact. This agreement or contract, however you like, believe me, the international system of advertising of arms products, even NATO representatives insist on it, because although we export a good amount of weapons to America and Belgium, which are NATO countries, we export most of them to non-NATO countries, which are surrounded by this codification system. I don't want to compromise on where the Orthodox peoples are, they're not Orthodox peoples. I want to tell you that the largest Serbian city outside the borders of this country is in NATO, and the largest army, where there are most Serbs, are just outside the borders of this country in NATO, our monasteries outside the borders of this country are, not counting Bosnia and Herzegovina, right in NATO. But that's not the topic that we need to talk about today, because that theme will lead us to some story where we can meet and when you were vice president of the DS; why didn't you sign this agreement then? Why didn't you use the support that existed then, but we came today in 2011 to sign it? Should I remind you why we didn't enter the Partnership for Peace? Because there was no courage at the time to draw a line and say – what has been past, we want it to be the past in everything, and in the police, in the BIA, and in the military, etc., has already been manipulated by some people because of the various possibilities possible in the elections. Should I remind you of who you used to make posters and who you put up posters for, wouldn't you get any more votes in the election? You don't know. It doesn't matter. I agree with your attitudes very often, but the way you expose them and the way you attack doesn't stand. We welcome the government of Vojislav Kostunica to introduce Serbia into the Partnership for Peace in 2006. That's a fact. Today, we wanted to see it or not, Vojislav Kostunica was a man who was prime minister of this government when we entered the Partnership for Peace. You were the Deputy Prime Minister who wasn't in the Partnership for Peace. Today we are expanding this co-operation with France, Lebanon, Côte d'Ivoire, in the Congo, it is not true that we are not allies in the places where we should be. It is true that we have participated in UN missions so far and it is true that we want to participate in EU missions as well. In particular, here I received a letter today, I must say, the Minister of Defence of France, who thanks us for visiting and thanking our initiative to participate together in the “Atlanta” Mission on the coast of Somalia. Our capacities, unfortunately, are not great. The situation in which we found the army four years ago was not at the level that we could promise, as it was in 2003, thousands of soldiers for Afghanistan. Do you remember that time? It was a story that didn't drink water either in the Army, as opportunities in the people, and even less in the field, because the army wasn't ready for that kind of operation that we all, like, supported. What is important, too, to say, no matter what I'm not an economist, I am an honest Social Democrats, I think in this country, unless we raise the level or standard of citizens, there is no other topic that we can discuss. That's why I gave great energy today when I came back from Kuwait, and in that same Paris, with the idea of just hiring that part of our economy that's been devastated since 1999 and that was physically destroyed. I cannot bear responsibility for what happened before, I am not directly responsible, not even for the economy in Serbia, nor as defence minister, to be clear. So, the Ministry of Defence has no means to grant subsidies to any company in Serbia, but we have tried to produce results that do not have the countries that we have listed in our environment. None of those countries that today, in your opinion, are ahead of us, have the result that Serbia has. On the other hand, I don't think at any point we should ask the prime minister of the Russian Federation – in which direction Serbia should go. I think you went to the wrong address. As we don't ask the Vice President of America, Mr. Beyden, how he thinks we should develop our relations in the Middle East, and I don't think we should ask the president of the Russian Federation what they think about how we should develop our relations with NATO. Today we are talking about NATO countries, but I will tell you that the fact is that Serbia often chooses a path that is less common. The fact is, we're always going down a thorny path, even though there's a paved path. Just imagine a dialogue in Austria, Finland or Sweden, where MPs attack their minister for supporting such an agreement, persuading him that their path is the way to NATO. The three highly developed countries, one of the largest investors in Serbia, are not members of NATO, so no one respects them. Do you really think that today if we made the decision that we wanted to be, would we meet the condition that we were? Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, how long have they been waiting for reception? Will they be admitted? We don't know. When? We're even less familiar. The fact that we want to develop the system in a way that makes it compatible, standard, interoperable, codified, to be at the highest possible level in the situation where we are. I must tell you that the Ministry of Defence, regardless of what was small or large in the resolution on Kosovo, must function administratively on the basis of Parliament's decision. What kind of government would it be if you decided and acted contrary to Parliament's decision? Well, the parliament has chosen us to be in government. Whether I like it or not, you know my opinion on it. It's just that there's no possibility of us ignoring something like that, because today it's something that's a fact in our society, a fact in our system. We've said that the Partnership for Peace at this point is a sufficient basis for co-operation. I have to say, we're really trying to grab as many and better positions as possible around the Partnership for Peace Partnership. We raise our reputation abroad, raise our reputation within the Partnership for Peace countries. I think we're doing a very good job under the circumstances. As you know, politics is the skill of a possible. It is not possible for us from the Ministry of Defence to launch activities that are not verified by the government, or parliament. That's not what I'm gonna do. Some things I don't like, but what to do is that situation, as it was, I say, 2001, 2002 or 2003, when you were vice president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you ask me which man I mean, I'll answer you in the hallway. I don't want to raise the subject here, because I don't think that's the topic to be discussed on the day when we talk about codification, or the accession to the standard of 63 countries in the world, where most of them don't care about relations with NATO. We want to show up tomorrow on the market and that Kuwait, where we need to have NATO code so we can sell our products.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53359	Right on line, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53360	As for 2001, 2002 and 2003, at that time, unfortunately, we could only look at the Ministry of Defence and the Government, since we could not in any other way influence the policy of the federal government, especially in the area of defence. Only after the formation of the state union are the preconditions for starting reforms at the defence ministry. We are the political decision on the path Serbia should go, we made in 2002, when we asked for shifts to the General Staff, which were the condition for immediate admission to the Partnership for Peace and the start of our country's integration into NATO. There is no analogy between Sweden, Austria, Finland and Serbia. Since there is no possibility that we are building our exclusiveity on the principles on which the three countries are located. Austria has its reasons for something like that because it is a country formed by the merger of the occupation zones of the East and the West, with constitutional restrictions. Austria has given its response to EU membership, as well as Finland and Sweden. Sweden for 200 years doesn't make wars, 300, they correct me. If we're talking about Parliament's decision, I'm not asking you, Mr Sutanovac, to violate Parliament's decisions. I would remind you once again that the resolution on Kosovo, brought by this parliament, was a place where Serbia's military neutrality could not be debated. All the points of that resolution have long since left state policy, and one of the views is that there is no co-operation with Eulex, so not to cooperate, but it is the only form of communication that we now have and we are developing this collaboration. None of you are asking you to violate parliament's decisions, but we are asking you to ask specific political questions here. Of course you don't have to make decisions elsewhere. Especially not out of this country. We should talk to everyone in the world, because in this country there is a very clear opinion that Serbia's path to NATO is a kind of betrayal of Russia... (President: Two minutes. )... or attack on her, which is actually the way that all the other countries have gone and have maintained normal relations with Russia, which is what we've been talking about here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53361	The word is from Ambassador Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53362	Mr. Minister, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an opportunity and is the possibility that when a NATO standard is adopted, Serbia's policy is generally discussed towards this military organisation and what, ultimately, the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing towards this military organisation within the Partnership for Peace. Of course, it is an opportunity to discuss in general security policy in RS, how it is implemented and what is the general strategy of the Authority and the ruling coalition towards security issues and security challenges and threats to RS. In a number of these questions, we do not have a clear answer and we have not heard it today, nor have we heard it in previous discussions when these topics were in the National Assembly. Of course, every time questions like this open up, it's an opportunity for us to unmask it. That is why the National Assembly serves to discuss important national issues, not to flee from them, regardless of political differences. When it comes to the general security policy of the Republic of Serbia, we have a series of conflicting or unexplained and underexplained views from the ruling coalition itself. A series of static documents brought by the ruling coalition and the Government of the Republic of Serbia mentions security alliances, security integration, in the crowd, and that we have no contact with any security organisation and security alliance, except NATO, within the Partnership for Peace. Thus, Serbia's military doctrine, on page 8, says Serbia will protect its interests by building a reliable partnership with other countries and security alliances. I ask the question -- what are still the security alliances Serbia will co-operate with, given the fact that the ruling coalition refuses to answer the call and offer of the collective security agreement organisation sent here to the Assembly, that Serbia will receive observer status in this military alliance, the security union. The last answer we received from the president of the National Assembly is that some major procedures are needed to go through the National Assembly here and that Serbia will, in fact without a response, have a representative at the May meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the ODKB. Also, when I talk about security alliances, a very interesting stance is expressed in the "White Book of Defense", which had a month ago and a public promotion, which is an official document, which is said on page 12 – NATO's roles will remain key to stability in the area of Southeast Europe. The country's commitment to NATO and EU membership will have a positive impact on the security environment. We are here all the time saying that one crypto policy is being conducted, regardless of what is declared public, that we are a country that respects military neutrality, and in fact we are trying, and I will point out through further discussion, we are seeking to progress in the processes within the Partnership for Peace, in order to probably become, by the idea of our own, and full members of NATO. Of course, the issue that is essential in general – whether Serbia, as in the situation under this ruling coalition, is driving along a one-way street when it comes to European integration, is also obvious that it is the same one-way street, which is a dead end, and in terms of security integration. Because we don't have another option or another policy, except for this one that's currently going on within the Partnership for Peace, and I'm going to say why it needs to be subject to review at this point. There are a number of security and military alliances where Serbia as a neutral state should be at least in the status of observers. Here, one is specifically called – Organisation of a collective security agreement, which respects the territorial integrity and sovereignty of its members, and which also has a peacekeeping force to participate in peacekeeping missions under the mandate of the United Nations, and where we could also fulfill one of the missions of the Serbian Army and participate, within that military alliance, in establishing or maintaining peace or solving humanitarian problems. Why not, if we're neutral? The goal is, in fact, for a neutral state to be present in as much as possible, not as a member, but as many military alliances as possible in the status of observers and thus to spread partnerships. When you look at those documents brought by the Authority, you just get the impression that so many things haven't been cleared up. It is said: protection of defence interests and protection of territorial integrity will also be achieved through co-operation with partners in the event of an attack. These are things that we cannot get an answer to – what are partners, and how will this be realized? The second problem we now have, when it comes to our participation in the Partnership for Peace, is the fact and relationship of NATO after the so-called declaration. false states of Kosovo and its independence, in February 2008, and the role it plays in maintaining, training and creating security forces and separatist formations. We have heard here many times from the Minister himself that it has been pointed out to the NATO representatives on this wrong step, but at the same time, while it has been reported, this thing has remained controversial, it has not been discussed in such an unsettled relationship, for us vital issues such as our territorial integrity and the struggle for its preservation, we are deepening integration within the Partnership for Peace. It's a fundamental problem we need to talk about. In addition, the issue is - in the invitation document of the Partnership for Peace, it is said that there will be a consultation between the partner country and NATO, in case the partner country considers that it is at risk of territorial sovereignty and integrity, so we ask the question: did such a conversation occur and what was the conclusion of such a conversation between the Republic of Serbia and NATO? This is something we also signed in the basic document signed by the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, when Serbia was admitted to the Partnership for Peace. At that time, it is said that territorial integrity and sovereignty of the countries and the Helsinki Final Act will be respected, which confirms it. At the same time, the organisation supports the creation of an army in the southern Serbian province, an army of separatists who tried to disrupt our territorial integrity. Another important question I would like to discuss, and to get answers, is – what is Serbia doing in the framework of the Partnership for Peace? I think it's the most lenient process we have in Serbia right now. On no site can you find information about how Serbia participates in the Partnership for Peace. We have no data on the individual persecution of the Partnership, what are the objectives, how are they realized, in what way, and what have we chosen the objectives of the partnership in the first place? We have no record of whether we're involved in the planning and audit program? What are the forces we declared? What goals have been achieved? It's also a matter of funds. The budget of the Republic of Serbia, adopted here, defines that – in order to implement the NATO co-operation programme – Serbia is planning to intensively realise various forms of co-operation and joint work by representatives of both sides. Also listed are professional expertise, visits, seminars, etc. But we have no information on what these funds have been spent on? What are the effects and goals and consequences of that? Why am I saying this? Mr. Minister, because the other day, and that's the information that was on your site, the foreign representatives were given a presentation of the military budget, so the Ministry of Defense budget, and they're very pleased with the comprehensive information they got, and that we here as representatives of citizens have no information, in what way have these funds been spent? Especially in this section regarding the Partnership for Peace, which I am particularly interested in, because today is the topic. We don't have any information on what's going on under that program? So, the individual partnership programme, the programming and the revision, which are the objectives, how much is realized, what we have chosen, etc. Especially since, at a plenary meeting of the Serbia-NATO Group, for defence reform, it is said: "It has been both concluded that there has been some progress in achieving the partnership goals, compared to the November 2010 plenary meeting. “ What goals? Is it anywhere that citizens know what our goals are in the framework of the Partnership for Peace? The problem is that at this point, and it is controversial for the political reasons that I have stated, Serbia is deepening its co-operation within the Partnership for Peace, as the government of the Republic of Serbia concluded in February this year that it is launching a procedure to create an individual national partnership plan between the Republic of Serbia and NATO. This is another step further, and on the one hand, we have not discussed the issue and the major political issue that NATO supports the separatist security force, that it did not want in its strategic document to guarantee the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, although it has guaranteed all countries that have the same controversial territorial problems, and at the same time, in every way possible, does not want to help Serbia solve its key, security and territorial problem, and Kosovo is also defined as the biggest security threat by the most important strategic documents of the Republic of Serbia. This is, of course, all very important, because, and when we talk about standardisation, we, for example, have no data at all, except on the Ministry of Defence website, on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in NATO standardisation agreements, except for those relating to the language, I assume that the one that is seen, which refers to the headquarters organisation of the command; we have no other way of seeing what is going on within the Ministry of Defence and Co-operation with the Partnership for Peace, means, Serbia in the framework of the Partnership for Peace and Spending of Funds, and we only get information that we are making progress. Here, a while ago, one of the professors at one of NATO colleges praised Serbia for making tremendous progress within that partnership, everyone else knows that, except for the citizens and other than the National Assembly. That's the question we need to talk about. We're going back to this, so when we talk about standardisation, when we talk about this document itself, the previous question is, of course, the political dimension of the problems we have with NATO. Until we discuss this, we must at best not deepen our integration within this organization. Indeed, who can understand that at the same time we have a partner who helps separatists hijack territory and form a state in their space, and at the same time we deepen relations with it. I would like to see the political logic of such an attitude, and on the other hand, those who invite us and who have shown that they support us in defending sovereignty, such as members of the collective security agreement, we do not want to leave. We have, as said in the meeting of the representatives of the Ministry of Defence of Serbia and the Russian Federation, an extremely low level of co-operation in the area of defence and should be improved etc. Of course, the issue that is very important here, about what is the proposal for today's debate, is – what are our objectives when it comes to standardisation within the Partnership for Peace and NATO. We don't have them here, so let's at least hear about them and start discussing them. As part of this agreement, is this part of the so-called material standardisation run by the National Weapons Director's Conference within NATO, are we involved in some other projects related to either operational, or material, or administrative standardisation, which are objectives, what are the standards? The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on this issue is absolutely uninformed. So, on the one hand, we have a publicly declared view that Serbia is a military neutral, and on the other hand, we have NATO, which supports separatists in Kosovo and Metohija, as southern Serbian provinces. On the other hand, we are deepening relations between the public and the citizens. That's the question we should have an answer to today. Also, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I say that the National Assembly, except for this debate, which is closely related to one topic, has no opportunity to discuss in general the strategy and policy in the Ministry of Defence. For example, a series of documents are needed to bring in the National Assembly: the long-term development plan of the Republic of Serbia's Army, which is a legal obligation, we did not get. We did not discuss a report on the state of preparation of the Republika Srpska Army for 2009, although MPs received the document. We did not have the opportunity to discuss it, nor to exchange our views, and to highlight the differences that exist. It's absolutely certain they exist. Therefore, any further deepening of relations, any further co-operation, because after an individual national partnership plan, the MAP will go, this is the first step towards membership. We had public calls from NATO Secretary General, who said Serbia is welcome, only to say it wants to become a NATO member. They will make a political decision, unrelated to whether Serbia has met certain conditions concerning standards or anything else, if Serbia wants to be part of that military organisation, and certainly should not be part of that military organisation that now participates again in one war, in the same way it participated in 1999, and always at times when it brings its strategic documents. She brought a strategic document in 1999, bombed the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to justify her presence and her existence. He now participates in the war in Libya. The new NATO strategic document discusses the fight against cyber crime, anti-pirats, ozone holes, and possibly the fight against one of the sides in the civil war of a country. At the same time, as during the Serbian bombing, civilians are killed. We should deepen co-operation, especially after Kosovo's declaration of independence, with the military organisation. Another point I'd like to say a few things about. It's very interesting, he didn't mention it, and it refers to a contract with Kazakhstan, a state that is extremely important, which is by the size of the ninth, which is a member and, behold, a miracle, a joined point with this, the Organisation of collective security arrangements and the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation and the Customs Alliance. One country with great potentials, with which we need to establish co-operation and with which we need to conclude a contract, which is also in the Partnership for Peace, and which has a way to realise its security interests by participating and being present in all the more important security integrations and alliances that exist at the moment. We should, as a military neutral country, promote it, and neutrality in a security sense and indivisibility, because security is indivisible, and those who want to settle on one side alone, this concept of indivisible security, which exists in the world, that all threats to all are identical and that we all need to fight together. So, we should not put ourselves in one alliance, but be present at all. Therefore, the political dispute we have with NATO, and only afterwards, to consider whether Serbia should deepen, or not, its integration. Certainly not in membership, and what status we should have within the Partnership for Peace, at this point certainly should not be active and should not go further in this process.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53363	Before I give my word to the Minister, just one notice: You received Vesna Marjanovic's resignation as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, and proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate has ceased, and before the time it was elected, MP Vesni Marjanovic, elected from the Election List for European Serbia – Boris Tadic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53364	I listened very carefully to Mr. Palalic's presentation, and I didn't find much to do with the agenda point in what he was saying, but it's not the first time. What I want here to be crystal clear to everyone, and to citizens who are watching the transfer of the Assembly today in Serbia, is that we are all in favour of a balanced regional development, of raising standards, of a better life, of hiring businesses and citizens, of security of solid wages, but it is obvious that the DSS disagrees with the fact that our defence industries are codified with the countries that are drawn here, that they get their number and that they find themselves on the market in 63 countries. In translation – the worse the better. In translation – you want the few opportunities that we have, which concern the defence industry above all, to end, so that you can make some political benefits and make a political profit. All the questions you mentioned earlier about NATO, you could ask all those questions yourself when Vojislav Kostunica joined Serbia NATO, absolutely all the issues, on Kosovo and Metohija and on all other issues, so you never asked any questions. Sooner or later, the public will come to see what we were saying at the National Security Council, how your president acted on that council when we talked about KIM, how brave his heart was on that council, and how much he had in public. All of this, sooner or later, will come out, will have the opportunity to get to know the public, to really see who is honest and true patriot, and who is the patriot on the words, as he says, we will do everything we can to keep track of how we did what we could. So please, when you talk about this contract today, be precise. So you won't vote for a contract that allows our defence industries to be produced on the market of 63 countries, because you think we shouldn't deepen relations with NATO. You'll have to explain that in both Chačka and Valjevo, and in Luciani, and in Užica and all those cities where weapons and military equipment are being created, as a rule, which should be sold abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53365	Right on line, MP Jovan Palalic. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53366	Mr. Minister, you haven't answered any of the questions I've asked, and this happens regularly when we discuss such an important issue as Serbia's relationship with NATO. No one argues that the issue of military industry and weapons is important and that every normal in this country wants the military industry to develop, but you keep avoiding answering questions that also concern money. What were we doing within the Partnership for Peace? Where were these funds spent, and what citizens in the National Assembly voted in the budget? How much will it cost to sign this agreement and when will it be realised? When is this whole codification of our products going to take place and get the numbers they're supposed to get? I agree, but we didn't get an answer to any questions. How much will this special agreement cost us to conclude? What country are we going to lock him up with? There's a special payment for that agreement. Now we're talking about a virtual thing that's a question of when it's going to be over and when it's going to be over, and reality is extremely difficult. The reality is difficult because under your government, under the government you're sitting in, you're avoiding the answer to a key security issue. We're talking about an agreement that may be operational in a few years. At this point, citizens don't have any of it specifically, and we don't know how much it costs. That's the essential question. As for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr. Minister, when the act took place, we later, it was February 2008, we do not want with that organisation, which supported the separatists downstairs and the real army, to deepen relations. Before that, there was one condition, and then there was another condition. Perhaps it is all the same to you, for us it is not, because we have been attacked by territory, and in your document, which you have adopted here in the Assembly, the declaration of independence of Kosovo is the greatest threat. In this biggest threat, NATO supports (President: Two minutes). ) an army that is literally created by the KLA, and we are deepening relations with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53367	The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53368	I have not avoided giving an answer to any questions related to the agenda item. Simply, all the questions you've asked have nothing to do with the agenda. That's a fact. What you said last, how much is the cost of this contract, I will tell you that there is a fixed cost of about 10,000 euros, of which, afterwards, about 1,350 euros in membership fees per year. So that's the cost. You've got it all in explanation on page six. I'll tell you another thing. I've been in this House about a dozen times, we end up the same way every time. Set up a session of the Defence and Security Committee, gather MPs, write down and define the questions you have and you will get answers to all questions, absolutely all questions. So we're not running away from any answers. Secondly, if you're an old computer, you can access our site, every day it's happening, within the site, the plans, everything we do is standing there, we don't hide anything. So, just give me the opportunity to answer all these questions in line with what's on the agenda, and not to answer you on questions that have nothing to do with what's on the agenda today, absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53369	The People's Messenger Vlajko Senic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53370	Dear Mr. Minister, and one and the other, honourable MPs and citizens, I will begin the presentation with what will be the result if we adopt this agreement, and I hope that we will, since we seem to have taken a lot off the subject, if we stick to the agenda, as Mr. Sutanovac has said, whoever is a valid Internet can see that the result is going to be that our country will get two numbers and two letters. It's a national issue that's being prepared behind this agreement. You can see that, for example, Italy is called in that system, i.e. has a letter code ZR, number 15, Greece is called, i.e. It has a letter code for ZU, number 23, here, and Russia, it's called JU, and it's number 57. This is what will be the result of this agreement, which is signed and I think it is quite clear that it is a matter of logistics, so it is not a political decision for Serbia to change its policy, which is what it is, I will agree with the defence minister. So, I don't agree with that policy either, I don't think it's good for this country to be military neutral when the entire region is in NATO, but with a contract like this we won't change anything about politics, security or any kind of strategy, because logically this is from a list of countries that are already in that NATO codification system. If you look at the list of these, over 60 countries, you will see that they are very different in terms of economic policies, policies towards NATO and different things. Here is exactly what the defence minister was talking about, and what fits very well in our campaign "My City – A Great Chance". This is an opportunity for what is already being produced in Serbia and what is already being exported to markets, or NATO countries or other countries, to get its standard. When someone puts a tire on a vehicle outside Serbia, looks at the marking on that tire, sees where it comes from and is surprised that one such tire or bullet or whatever else is in the portfolio of our military industry can be produced in Serbia. The system was established in 1952. It was then the idea that it would be the only system that would function within NATO countries. But there was also co-operation over time with other non-NATO countries. What's also not said today, I think it's extremely important. We here, as Parliament, voted and ordered our military forces to have an obligation to participate in individual operations under the auspices of the UN. Often these UN-sponsored operations are carried out by NATO's main force, other forces are forces that are not part of the NATO Corps, and in order to have mutual co-operation, so that they can technically communicate, in order to understand each other in terms of technical support and logistics, there is a need for this type of codification, because this is reflected in the degree of equipment of the troops on the ground. It can at some point facilitate the equipment of the necessary reserves and that maybe, I'll say pathetically, it can really happen, save some human life, a timely reaction. Using this system, some research has shown that stockpiles of many armies have fallen by 50% just because they used this system. As I said at the beginning, the basic purpose of all this is to establish the language of logistics and interoperability between different armies. Even within NATO, you have to have a system that allows different armies to communicate with each other more easily, because they have different productions, different weapons, different, to say, ways of supplying. In this way you get the opportunity to call one product that has common characteristics in terms of shapes and functions and some basic elements of endurance by the number of others equally in each army of the world. This way we get a chance, I don't know, I guess in the army the codification that was in JNA, which was similar, instead of 13 digits, had 12 digits, there's that everywhere. So that army no longer exists. There are no states that have committed JNA. Bosnia has moved on to this system. Brotherly Montenegro has also moved on to this system. Therefore, there is no reason for Serbia to be out of this system and not allow our military industry, which has indeed shown in the last few years that it is one economic potential of Serbia, that it is not an empty story, to enter a market where you are practically able to present yourself on a single market that covers 16, 17 million different elements that are now collectively codified in one system. I don't see what could be negative for our military industry. At the end of the line, I don't see what can be negative for our army, because our army has to be supplied, and that way our army will probably be supplied more efficiently and probably have fewer supplies. Each of us who was in the army knows what it looked like and how often it was guided and how it was used and held in much greater quantity than necessary. That's about what it looks like, I don't know if a cameraman's interested in recording this. This is a wheel, and now it's being run under different numbers in different commercial industries. In this unique system, any one to come from any part of the world is led under number 2610, then retreat, then number of countries. So this is the great strategy of Dragan Sutanovac to betray the national interests of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia, simply put. Oh, baby, you're gonna end up, I guess you've got some graphics too. What's this all about? It's a technical matter that can be potentially a great gain for our country. What is more important is the fact that this system of codification, as the defence minister said, is the basis for some kind of industrial trade. Using a dictionary that allows all industries, for example, militaryly, to understand one another more easily in the world. And our companies will be able to go in and put it on the Internet, i.e. The site, its catalog, that what products describe in one way that is universally understood by all other armies in the world, all other manufacturers of similar equipment in the world, and thus I assume that they will get the opportunity to easily place their products, and what is also important, to use technology that has already been established in the world. Research shows that somewhere around 50% of the components that are built into some new means of defence already exist in a system so far. It's something behind this contract proposal. Of course, we can talk politics here today. I'd agree with the Secretary of Defense, which shows some absurdity with us. It seems to me that, right after 2000, there were more supporters and more citizens, although it has only been a year since the bombing, to join NATO, than it is today, 2010. I think that there are every one of us who is politically in favour of joining Serbia NATO, each of us is responsible for what it is, each of us is in certain parts, or times of our political action, making compromises that unfortunately led to today being in the situation we are in. Full support for this agreement. In this way we use some more opportunities from the Partnership for Peace, although this is the side road that will lead Serbia into NATO, I have nothing against it either.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53371	Nine minutes have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53372	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, firstly on behalf of the SRS, I would like to express my condolences to the Belarusian people and their president because terrorist attacks were carried out yesterday and eleven people died. Of course, Serbia and the Serbian people are always with our brotherly Belarusian people. We have problems with terrorism everywhere, and we know that part of this terrorism is sponsored by NATO, according to Professor Daniel Genzer in his book "The Secret NATO Army". When we talk about the Bill on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is represented by the Ministry of Defence and the Group of the National Directors for Codification – Allied Committee 135, we can first conclude that from the speech of the defence minister no one who listened on the side could understand what it was about. He speeded it all up. It seems he himself didn't understand the meaning of this contract and the particular concepts that exist in this contract. That's why he misread and gave the wrong information. However, you have made one disastrous mistake, no matter which party you belong to, just because you are a citizen of this country, I want to tell you that KIM are not and will never be in NATO, that KIM under UN administration, according to Resolution 1244, that also means that our monasteries are under their custody in some way, and it is likely that your party's intention to both KIM and all of Serbia are in NATO. Unfortunately for you, they are not in NATO and they will never be. It is a shame for a defence minister to say such a thing, that he does not know what Resolution 1244 is and that he does not know that just under NATO, when you mentioned churches, on the 17th of March 2004, was destroyed, thirty-five monuments of the culture of European and Serbian civilization, medieval pearls, monasteries, including the Mother of Ljeviška. Your NATO has just made it possible for something like this to happen, Mr. Sutanovac. Why don't you know what's in this contract? Not just because you've been talking about him for a whole minute and a half, but because you're only talking about logistics support, about selling weapons. We're selling on invisible weapons to NATO countries. These jobs are probably measured in billions of dollars. Mr. Sutanovac, through this contract, via the Group of the National Directors of NATO for Codification, you agree with an organization named NAMSA. She's in charge of standardisation, she's in charge of NATO's codification system. Indeed, when we look at it, we see that the members of NAMSA are high forces, military forces, including Albania, Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Luxembourg, Croatia, the Netherlands, but some of their services are also users of other organisations that we will mention later. The contract was signed by the State Secretary, Mr Spasojevic, on the Serbian side, and by NATO, Mr Bond, from the UK. So here we have a man who passed the FBI course and we have Mr. Bond from Great Britain. It really looks like there's a nice operation going on here. Now let's see what your NAMSA is, Mr. Sutanovac, because I assume you know how to use a computer, because you invite MPs to use a computer, I assume you also know English. You can go to their site and see that NAMSA is not only engaged in logistical support, but that it provides logistical support to NATO operations and the deployment of armed NATO troops around the world. It also collects information, Mr. Sutanovac, and is closely linked to the following NATO systems – to the SEP, I assume you know what it is, in Belgium, you hit it, and with the "Airborne Early Warning and Control System" so-called "Airborne Warning and Control System". AWACS, which also collects information, which is exactly the air platform through which the attacks are organized, i.e. aggression on SRJ in 1999. You have exactly on the NAMSA site, where it's spoken, where the details of this organization are presented. Go over there and see what it's all about, and you'll see that you've missed a lot. Let's move on, what can you find in their official documents. When you go to that NAMSA site full of documents, among other things, and documents concerning the subject matter of this contract, you see that it is the supplier and the Kfora. Also, that's where you get your way to the government of Kosovo, from the NAMSA site. According to Shiptarian terrorists, drug dealers, human organs dealers. So, theoretically, it could happen that you, with ammunition and weapons, through these NATO organizations, are supplying Shipatarian terrorists. You send NATO to the countries, they send the Shyptar terrorists and then the Cypriot terrorists kill Serbs, burn down the remaining monasteries and the Serbian houses and conduct ethnic cleansing. So, NAMSA is engaged right on KIM. It has been hired elsewhere, we don't have time to talk about all this now, but, interestingly, there is a map of the Western Balkans on the NAMSA site. Imagine, Mr. Sutanovac, Serbia and KIM are two separate states on that map. Do you sign a contract with such an organization? Do you agree with that? We know that you have started direct negotiations with the Shiptar terrorists led by Borko Stefanovic and that in this way you recognise KIM in fact. The Soviet Union is recognised by signing economic contracts from 1921 to 1927. You're negotiating with Thaci's terrorist government on the CEFTA agreement. The state can be recognised as de jure, a declaration of recognition and a de facto act. You are in this way in fact acknowledging KIM by participating in these negotiations. So, once again, let's see that your data is untrue, that NAMSA is not only working in the context of logistics support, but it is supporting NATO operations around the world, including KIM, deployment of NATO troops and demilitarisation of certain territories or countries. Read it, Mr. Sutanovac, what he does. You flew here from Kuwait, didn't even look at the contract. Probably if you'd looked at him, you wouldn't have understood him. You haven't studied what this is about. Your associates prepared something for you and then you started giving us lectures, and you rushed it for a minute and a half. You can't do that, sir. This is all official data from the NAMSA site. Or if you want NATO. It is the subject – the subject of this contract. But that's normal for you, Mr. Sutanovac. You've always praised the sale of weapons to Georgia. Do you remember when you said - the military industry must earn money from something. That's what you said in this House, Mr. Sutanovac. We were selling weapons to Georgia, and we knew that Georgia was preparing aggression on Abkhazia and South Ossetia, and we knew that this weapon would kill innocent civilians and kill Russians. You were not then, of course, the defence minister, but you said in parliament – the military industry had to earn. When it comes to selling ammunition, selling weapons to these NATO countries, what are you going to sell them? Will you sell them that poor uranium that they spilled all over Serbia? Will you produce sub-caliber ammunition from the impoverished uranium around Vranj and who knows where else to sell NATO to countries, so that they can use again against us or against Russia, Libya, against anyone, to poison anyone else's children, including soldiers? Is our soldiers, who defended KIM, guilty of something, because NATO committed aggression, for which he killed 87 children? Who knows how many people died from radiation-depleted uranium. You want to give them back that poor uranium now? Why was the country’s Zeolithic spilling method, which was poisoned with poor uranium, not used? Zeolite that absorbs 80% of poor uranium, even though there were projects in the Serbian government? Why isn't the state cleared that way? Why isn't the food cleaned that way? Also, it can be used in the food industry, Zeolite. No, Zeolith, you're exporting, you know who? Export to the English, who clean the Thames, I don't know what to do with it. You're exporting them instead of using them here. Mr. Sutanovac, you like to take pictures with or on the American war technique: "USS Enterprise", "Star Trek", minors, space program, aircraft carrier. Next time you ask to take a picture next to the strategic B2 bomber "The Spirit of Missouri". You won't be able to. Do you know why? He was shot down in 1999, you know? You're looking for B2 "The Ghost of Missouri", their strategic bombers, the most expensive planes in the world, cost over $2.5 billion. It bears names by Member States of the United States. You're asking to take a picture next to the Ghost of Missouri. He will say: He cannot, disappeared, disappeared in action, fortunately. Who are we supplying with weapons? NATO countries. NATO Defence Minister Robert Gates, as intelligent as he is on March 7th in Afghanistan, spoke to General Petrus at the airport and did not notice that the camera was on. Two weeks before the aggression on Libya, he said he was about to bomb. Are we going to sell arms, ammunition, or whatever, by this or those standards? Who has better standards than NATO? You here represent NATO as if it were an idyll, as if its members were the most enlightened states in the world that they invented, we heard, and the wheel. It's amazing. Unbelievable nonsense. Then why does America buy the Russian anti-aircraft system "S-300"? They wanted to buy it back in the '90s. They asked for it from the former Soviet republics, so at the end of Moscow she said, "Give the people, ask us, we will immediately sell it to you, so you don't go through the middleman." Why do Americans, such a force, and NATO in cosmic technology buy rocket engines from Russia? That's what Russia sells to them, and you want to justify this to us through sales, I don't know how much ammunition or whatever. In 2010, Russia delivered the U.S. four rocket engines "RD-180", which Americans use for their "Atlas 5" rocket. To date, they've sold 50 of those engines to the Americans. Who's got better standards? Rocket technology, where are you going to get something more advanced than that? Russia has better standards. Russia has joined this project. Russia is not a member of NAMSA. Yes, she did, but look what Russia is selling them. Look what he's selling them. As early as 1970, the Russians developed an NK-33 rocket engine, which Americans said was impossible for such technology to exist on the planet. Liquid oxygen speeds up all the projects that a man needs to lead to Mars, among other things. It's very important for the Mars mission. What did the Americans do? In 1992, they started buying these rocket engines. So, Mr. Sutanovac, don't come here unprepared, don't celebrate NATO, which is a criminal organization that sponsored terrorists all over the world. Read a book, say, Professor. Daniel Genzer – "The Secret NATO Army". You will see that they also financed "Gladio", that they killed European politicians across Europe, according to the EU, which you want to go to. They funded and armed terrorists around the world, not only Al-Qaeda, who is now their co-worker, a partner in the fight against Gaddafi in Libya. Of course, the Ship's terrorists at KIM and elsewhere. Think carefully when you promote such a criminal organization.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53373	It was used for 15 minutes and 30 seconds by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? (No) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search, the application for a word in writing, and with the order of the MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the LDP parliamentary group, the New Serbia MP group, the SRS parliamentary group, and we move to a session where the debate takes place in order of the MPs and according to the application for a word in a joint single search of the draft laws referred to in points 13, 14 and 15. First reported by MP Zoran Ostojic. After him, MP Aleksandra Jankovic. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Here you go. People's MPs, you have not been reported, have been reported by MP Nikola Lazic. I can't give my word until you put your card in the MP's unit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53374	The unwritten rule of current Serbian parliamentism is that serious points of the agenda are seen as proposals for the law, reportedly domestic production. Those bill proposals aimed at confirming international agreements and agreements also allegedly have only technical character. With the formal democratic postulate, the constitutional basis for law-making, there is always the thesis of an intolerable ease of existence, as after the adoption of the law, everything will be simpler, more efficient, more economical. The adoption of the NATO codification system will allow for unique identification, classification, the determination of a storage number for all NATO funds, with one of the accompanying effects being the modernisation of the defence ministry's work by introducing a modern way of doing business. Tra-la-la... Based on the tried-out principle of "Cocca-Cola", a little, but constantly, which is to the citizens of Serbia, and what is inserted under the grain by their representatives, and that is true. I'm already the name of this first proposal is something should be true of simplicity. Proposal for a law confirming a contract between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is represented by the Ministry of Defence and a group of NATO National Codification Directors – Allied Committee 135 on the adoption of NATO codification systems. Codification and NATO codification systems – probably just one of the minor sequences of the global strategy of our NATO lobbyists, to be out of the public eye, because only 15% of citizens really support NATO membership, introduces Serbia into NATO membership at a small door. If I exaggerate, it certainly cannot be said that it is exaggerating the personality of such a form as NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen, who, on 20 May 2010, said he would make a maximum effort to join Serbia by taking a step-by-step approach to the Alliance, as requested by the Serbian side. Or we who distinguish co-operation through the Partnership for Peace, on NATO membership, are not the Serbian side or current Serbian government runs double accounting, so, the honorary Tito's pioneering word, Kosovo will remain part of Serbia, but according to NATO standards, which means "a little morgen". The way to confirm such a technical contract between the Serbian Ministry of Defence and the National Directors' Group for NATO codification, he set out, and who else, our defence minister, when he said on 29 September 2007, that NATO has the best standards and that his task is to standardise and equip the military according to those standards. He added that he should not decide whether Serbia will join NATO or not, but that at some point it was decided that the military would be equipped with NATO standards. A little later, Serbia submitted an individual partnership programme detailing activities involving other institutions within the Partnership for Peace over a one-year period. On October 1st 2008, the same minister signed an Agreement on the Protection of Classified Information between Serbia and NATO, the so-called Security Agreement, in NATO headquarters. The agreement envisions a mutual obligation to protect the exchange of information between Serbia and NATO, which are classified as confidential. This is an obvious example of intentional, logical mistakes that need to produce additional confusion, as there is no difference between co-operation, a sufficient framework is the Partnership for Peace and Membership in NATO, nor between European integration, which means EU membership and Euro-Atlantic integration, which means NATO membership. On the visit of Vice-President Joseph Bideen to Belgrade on 20 May 2009, Serbia's NATO integration was mentioned during the talks. It was not given to our Clooney, and he said that the Alliance's entry was blocked by internal political reasons. So, on June 2nd, we were again pleased by Minister Sutanovac in the Serbian Parliament. Namely, he said the ministry, led by the Serbian Parliament's decisions on military neutrality, but also reminded that Serbia has been a member of the Partnership for Peace since November 2006. It's not like he's discovered America, but he's made a nice clagworth to fight the forgetfulness of Serbia's military neutrality. In fact, the National Assembly of Serbia decided on 26 December 2007 to declare military neutrality against existing military alliances. The decision, according to the text of the Declaration, is valid until a referendum is called to take the final decision on the issue. Serbia has thus practically joined the family of European countries, EU members or not, which have declared military neutrality. Among the neutral states is the westernmost country of Europe, such as Ireland, the northernmost, such as Sweden, the southernmost, such as Mlata, the easternmost, such as Moldova and the most central, such as Austria. The experiences of these countries, strengthening the EU's defence policy, the Russian proposal for a European Security Agreement, as well as the emergence of new alliances, such as a collective security organisation, points to the fact that there are many alternatives to NATO membership. Neutrality, of course, does not mean isolation at all. No neutral country has joined NATO, but they maintain ties with the Alliance through the Partnership for Peace programme, which allows them to decide for themselves the level, type and intensity of ties they have with NATO, without obligations imposed by NATO membership. In this way, neutral countries are kept from imposing obligations on the outside, in a sensitive sphere of security, retaining enough room for manoeuvre to be independent, and according to their state interests, set external political and military priorities. Within the EU, there are five neutral countries, Sweden, Finland, Austria, Ireland and Malta. Neutrality is an acceptable concept from the EU's point of view and, as such, compatible with the process of Serbia's Eurointegration. With EU membership, Serbia would join a club of neutral countries, as the only neutral country in Southeast Europe. From such a position, Serbia could benefit more on the international stage than another in a number of Atlantic states in the region. Moreover, many will surprise the fact that most of their history was neutral, remaining beyond the great wars of the 18th and 19th centuries. During the 19th century, America remained neutral in the conflicts of European forces. For the first three years since World War I broke out, the United States continued its official neutrality policy, and the military facts took part in April 1917. The neutral countries, such as Serbia, which joined the Partnership for Peace programme in 2006, brought a declaration of military neutrality by no means during the state mandate of Vojislav Kostunica, through this programme, to maintain contacts and co-operate with NATO. They all estimate that this programme does not endanger their neutrality, i.e. leaving enough space for them to co-operate on political military issues, with NATO, without violating the principle of neutrality. In addition to political dialogue, the Partnership for Peace offers support to the country in military matters along with a clear fence on NATO membership. Switzerland, for example, is the best example of how a neutral country still outside the EU and how it can be active on the international scene. But it was a country that held to itself, so it interpreted its own neutrality very restrictively, and only after a positive referendum did it become a member of the UN in 2002 in a referendum and refused EU membership. However, Switzerland's neutrality did not mean its political isolation, on the contrary, Switzerland is today the European headquarters of UN and other international organisations, such as the World Trade Organisation or the Red Cross. Denmark, for example, as an EU member, has an exemption from the EU's common security and defence policy, so it is guaranteed on its request that it does not have to participate in decision-making concerning military engagements or to finance EU military operations. Ireland, for example, is the only EU member whose people in the referendum declared themselves on the Lisbon Agreement. One of the reasons, the majority negative vote, in the first referendum in June 2008, was the Irish's confidence that the Lisbon Agreement violates Ireland's neutrality. After the referendum failed, the Irish government sought and received guarantees from another EU member that Ireland's personality on neutrality would be respected, so that in October 2009, the Lisbon Agreement was adopted. Success in obtaining guarantees from other 26 members is an example of one EU country being able to protect its national policy within the wider European community, with tenacity and consistency in a political position. Ireland has so-called. The "tripple arch" system, military participates in peacekeeping operations, provided they have a three-way decision: the UN, the governments of Ireland and the parliament of Ireland. Instead of such an approach, Mr. Absent Sutanovac proposed, and the ruling majority in parliament adopted, participation in peacekeeping operations, which do not have to be under UN control at all. All right, we're really not like Sweden, which has hardly fought since the days of Napoleon, but at least spare us new participations in the known humanitarian interventionism of NATO, so in some future, at a memorial grave in Afghanistan, it doesn't say – in peace, NATO's legionnaires of Serb gender, those who died with Obama's name on their lips. Our ministry of general staff will, as the minister has promised, ensure that the Serbian army always participates in fair and defence operations. For now, it's stupid to call it war, because the ignorant people can think they die there. Modernization of the army, according to NATO standards, should include new songs to send soldiers...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53375	People's MPs, the time at your disposal has been used. Thank you. The People's MP Zoran Ostojic has the word, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53376	My colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately the minister is gone, but I believe that in the meantime he will come to clarify some things, so the adoption of this legislation on the codification and equipment of weapons is a reason to talk about this subject as well. This is one technical law, and no one in their right mind would have and should mind, if it will contribute to the growth of the dedicated industry and better integration of the dedicated industry into the world, let's say, trade in the intended goods. But certainly political issues are raised when it comes to Serbia's membership in NATO, and what disturbs us is the following facts. We have said many times that European policy needs to be given content. It's just that this government isn't working out. As a result, there is a compliment on the European idea of public opinion research, less and less people see the future of themselves, their country and their children in the EU. It is because politics is only in words, not a fundamental change in the country and essential reforms that would bring us closer to the EU and to full membership. To begin with, to get candidate status and start negotiations. That is why this issue of Serbia's NATO membership is important to us, because we really think that this is a shortcut and a faster path towards full membership of Serbia's EU. On the side of all other aspects and benefits from Serbia's membership in NATO, aside from the fact that this is a signal to investors that this is a stable country and that the capital in this country is safe, and we need it so much because of so many armies of young and unemployed people. On the side, the less defensive costs are in that case, because we are surrounded by NATO countries and we cannot be neutral in the way it is Switzerland, which has 12 times the national income per capita, rather than Serbia. These are all arguments that we have made many times and why we want Serbia to recognise, as well as other political parties, that Serbia's interest is full membership in NATO and the EU, and that someone outside Serbia may have an interest in not being in NATO or in the EU, but since we are MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which we have chosen the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then, above all, we should bear in mind Serbia's interests above all. For us elections are not a way to come to power or to stay in power. For us, elections are a way of getting support for some policy, and that is why I don't understand why Mr. Sutanovac, for whom, let me say, is or is beaten by the voice that pro-NATO is in the mood, and the vice-president is the biggest party that makes the backbone of the government, uses the arguments that are used by just those who are not for Serbia's membership in NATO. Three times today he said we entered a partnership for peace when Kostunica was Prime Minister. First, I don't know if he's happy that we joined the Partnership for Peace when Kostunica was Prime Minister or if he's sorry that we came in, what difference does it make now that we're in? It's much more important, after all, the next fact, maybe Mr. Kostunica was for the Partnership then, so now he's not. We have examples of others on the political scene, who told one story for 20 years, and then they took off the badge and now they're telling another story. That's legitimate. The arguments of type Finland, Austria, Sweden, are precisely used by opponents of Serbia's Euro-Atlantic integration. It is completely inappropriate for someone from the government to do so and consider it pro-European. Finland has been neutral for a long time, and this is some kind of silent agreement with the then Soviet Union, from the time of the “cold war”, so that it does not settle. Sweden is historically neutral, recognised as neutrality in all other states. Switzerland, if I didn't speak, she didn't want to enter the UN until a decade ago so she wouldn't violate her neutrality. We are now calling for this, instead of calling for the experience of all the former communist countries that, to join the EU, have entered NATO, such as Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, etc. We are calling for a resolution on military neutrality. That's not the name of that resolution. It is called the National Assembly Resolution of the Republic of Slovenia on the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity and constitutional order of the RS. It was brought in, remember, at a time when negotiations under Ahtisaari's plan were unsuccessful. In one point, the Assembly finds that the Albanian side is avoiding actual negotiations, in another I do not know, that some Western states are strongly opposed to the continuation of negotiations on future status, in the third we are concerned that the EU is suggesting activities in Kosovo and the Eulex mission, and in the fourth we find that declaring Kosovo independence, as well as recognition of the province's independence by any state --recognition, beware -- would be a harsh violation of international law. A confession can't be a violation of international law. Every country is sovereign. As for the declaration of independence, we later sought the International Court's opinion and received the opinion that this recognition did not violate international law, and that it was in accordance with Resolution 1244. And all that was the Resolution was inserted because of NATO's overall role in the illegal bombing of Serbia. I don't know, we're declaring the military neutrality of the RS in relation to the existing alliances until the call, possibly a referendum on which a final decision would be made. So she's in. It has nothing to do with neutrality. That's when you DS did what you did, and now you can't get out of this. What do you think, when you say, gentlemen of the DS, Mr. Minister, this government is now not about NATO, but about a future government. How do you think in that future government to open the issue of NATO, if you don't open it now or if you don't open it in a pre-election campaign. We are clearly looking for policy, support for the policy we clearly put forward, and this policy, which LDP advocates, will have as much influence as it gets in the elections, twice as much as last time, next time more. How do you think you can open up the issue of NATO in the future government if you're not asking citizens for support for this policy? Or do you mean like these main competitors of yours that you're arguing with about the date? You've agreed on a date for the election, and now the whole country's shaking because you want to knock each other's hands down, who's here now who's making them. How do you plan to get into a pre-election campaign, a government that, if we win the candidacy, will have to negotiate and finish this European job without telling the citizens what this European job is and what must be done? You mean, give us a voice, and then we'll see if we'll go to NATO, or what are we going to do? We'll sit down, and we'll make a deal. That's not how politics is run. That's unserious. This compromises both European and Atlantic ideas. Not to talk about humiliation now, and why NATO membership is important, that the country ceases to be humiliated, as it was the other day. We're the only ones with Russia minority participation in the future South Stream if there is one. All other countries through which the South Stream passes have equal treatment. All other countries are NATO members: Bulgaria, Greece, Slovenia etc. That is why I think it is incorrect and leads to the compromise of the future Euro-Atlantic integration and membership of Serbia in the European family of people, to use the arguments used by opponents of these integrations. It is much fairer to say – social circumstances today do not allow for such a decision. As Rade Bulatovic said in time, when it comes to the arrest of Mladic, that social circumstances are against it. It's cleaner and fairer than running a policy where it's not clear what you want. You say Kostunica was headed by the government when we entered the Partnership for Peace. Well, he did, because he didn't believe we were going to join the Partnership for Peace. It's a public secret. The evening before that summit in Riga, Mladic was a condition for membership in the Partnership for Peace. I'm talking about December 2006. Then some smart people explained to those who decide it's stupid to be conditions, because maybe Mladic, or possibly Mladic, is guarding just those who do not want Serbia in the Partnership for Peace, NATO, in the European Union. So the policy of conditioning for Mladic only makes sense if there was a consensus here if we wanted to go that way. But if there is no consensus, and someone is guarding it, who doesn't want it, then, in fact, conditions go in favour of those who are opposed to Serbia's Euro-Atlantic integration. So overnight the decision was changed and we were admitted to the Partnership for Peace, to the general astonishment of this Kostunica. That's why seven months later this military neutrality was put in. By then, no one had mentioned military neutrality. Another argument about the government's dishonesty, when it comes to the Euro-Atlantic future, is the Partnership for Peace, which is declared the right measure of co-operation with NATO at the moment. There, we were admitted to the Partnership for Peace in 2006 in December. It's been five years, three governments ever since. It was Kostunica's first government. Only in February this year, this government, which means, two and a half years after its mandate began, is making a decision to start a partnership action plan, something called the "Partnership Action Plan". That is how we will consume our partnership membership. What do we want from this one menu that's big? We're just starting to make a plan now. I'm not sure this plan will end for the term of office of this government. There, honesty in Euro-Atlantic integration. During the entire term, this government has failed to tell NATO that we want it out of partnership. We've only been formal members since 2006. Where is the "Membership Action Plan", an action plan that will lead us into membership? Far, far away, it seems, as Jovanovic said, in a decade, when Putin came back to give us permission. I fear that such a policy in principle compromises the Euro-Atlantic idea and that is why it bothers me when the Minister of Defence here is concerned about NATO, by argument – we entered a partnership when Kostunica was a member, Finland and Sweden are neutral, and such things. Leave that, Mr. Sutanovac, to those who are against it. Leave Putin, if you say don't ask anyone. So you must not talk about NATO when Putin comes, but must have the heads of the parliamentary groups here, or Ceda Jovanovic, to open the issue. This is where we run an independent, balanced, or I don't know what foreign policy. He said the other day on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Minister Jeremic – which is no longer a unity here, it is no good, there better be unity in Serbia around foreign policy, which is not what it is, balanced, as it is in Croatia. In Croatia, no one slows Croatia's path. Croatia is in NATO. The greatest communists and the ugliest fascists were for it, and all those in between, normally. Therefore, when there is politics in the interests of Serbia, and not in the interest of someone else, then there will certainly be unity in this assembly. While he's neither there nor here, he sits on two chairs, and they both wrinkle, certainly there can't be unity. It is even an obligation that there is no unity on the wrong policy, for it shows both responsibility and love for its country. So less demagogy. The defence minister should act less like the director of the dedicated industry and more like a politician, because he is the vice president of the DS, and simply assumes that kind of responsibility. Without that responsibility, everything else is demagogy and populism. I know being a Social Democrats means being a populist, like being a conservative means being a populist, but there needs to be some measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53377	People's MP, the time at your disposal has been used. I apologize to the MP, I have 14 minutes and 24 seconds on the form, and 15 minutes is 13 seconds. Sorry to interrupt, it's my fault, 15 minutes and 36 seconds, the form's old. Excuse me. National MP Petar Jojic has a word, followed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm just asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53378	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the ministry, as far as this bill is concerned, the SRS, through its representative, Mr Boris Aleksic, expressed its views and opinions. So, the bill to confirm the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Defence, and the Group of the National Directors of NATO for Codification. I would refer to some things that need to be connected, and above all to NATO, and not forget some facts. Should Serbia, gentlemen of the Ministry of Defence, go to NATO? Historically, NATO members have never helped Serbia, in any war. Where they had no interest, beginning with Emperor Dusan, through the Thessaloniki Front, until World War II, and finally, in the last 1990s war, Serbs always turned out naive in friendly relations, the war alliance against each opponent, where Serbs were the greatest victims in those wars and in that past. We have had greater losses in relations with NATO members, we have had huge losses, and NATO's leading member states, the current members, according to Serbia and the Serb people, have been incorrect and, according to the consequences of the evildoers. In the last 90's wars, Americans and their retired generals and plan makers and executioners of the "Serbs" against Serbs in Croatia, bombarding everything that is Serbian in BiH, bombed Serbia and brought it back 50 years, occupied Serbian territories, now occupied KIM, occupied the Serb people in BiH, wants to abolish Republika Srpska and attach it to the Muslim-Croatian Federation. So NATO's plans are, above all, directed in that direction. Why do we think it's not good to sign this contract? What were the NATO-led doing? Handing over Serbian territories to Croats and the whole of NATO helps Croats to implement the third position of Ustasha Pavelic's policies in action...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53379	People's MP, we patiently listen to discussions that, apart from one, have nothing to do with the agenda, but there are limits. So please, you'll have the same space as the other MPs, not to mention the agenda point, but rather to go too far in breaking the Rules of Procedure. Please, carefully with the language and at least a little, if it is NATO, NATO membership is not on the agenda, so that it is without being able to warn you that we still respect some of the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Okay?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53380	Mrs. Comic, I'm not talking about Emperor Murat, I'm talking about NATO, and that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53381	People's MP, it's not NATO's turn. In accordance with Article 27, I have allowed all MPs not to stick to agenda topics, except in a very, very mild mention, excluding one of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. You will have the right to do the same, but I ask you not to exaggerate in breach of the Rules of Procedure and to use the right not to speak of the agenda, to the extent that the other provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53382	Mrs. Komic, I'm talking about NATO, and NATO is on the agenda. Does the MP have the right to speak on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53383	Now I warn you, MP, NATO is not on the agenda. Please read the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53384	Can I talk about NATO, so I can connect it to the contract?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53385	Please connect NATO to the contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53386	I would ask you to have some tolerance when the MP speaks, to respect that you are also an MP and that I am an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53387	I now warn you, since you have no right, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, that you are distracting the chairman in the application of Article 27. So you're talking about NATO regarding the contract. Continue on the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53388	Mrs. Comic, I'm talking about the contract and NATO, whether Serbia should join NATO and whether the contract has any value to Serbia or not. If you feel that NATO must not be mentioned here, then I do not know if the MP in the Assembly has the right to speak about the agenda. I'm talking about NATO and the contract right now. Why do I think Serbia shouldn't sign this contract? You see what NATO was doing towards Serbia and Yugoslavia. They planned and realised the disintegration and isolation and poverty of Yugoslavia, that is, the whole of Serbia. That's NATO's radio. Is it true? Undisputed. They caused, encouraged and flared violence between Muslims and Slovenes. NATO did that, and now we want to sign NATO contracts. Mrs. Comic, they were obstructing the preservation of peace and stability in Yugoslavia at the time. That was NATO's goal. That's why the SRS thinks we should keep an eye on who we're going to close certain contracts with. What else is there? So NATO destroyed the UN's peacekeeping role, exploited military aggression and the occupation of insubordinated poor countries, and NATO killed and injured the unprotected population of the entire Yugoslavia. The entire Yugoslavia, Madam Vice President, was exposed by NATO. What did NATO do next? Planned, announced and carried out attacks with the intention of killing the president of the state, other leading figures of the government and individual objectives, and military and political leadership of one state. What did they do next? They have damaged economic, social, cultural, medical, diplomatic, religious facilities and installations in the territory of all Yugoslavia. They attacked the facilities necessary for the life of the Yugoslav population, attacked objects containing dangerous substances and toxins. Madam Vice President, I was then in Panchev, when the bombed "Rafineria" and "Petrochemicals" were bombed, when 40,000 people were prepared to move out of the city because the chemical industry was bombed and could cause great consequences, and left them as permanent. What else was NATO doing? They used poor uranium, tape bombs and other forbidden weapons, extended the war to the environment, imposed sanctions through the UN, which is a crime of genocide against humanity, established an ad hoc illegal tribunal to destroy Serbian leadership, thus being tried by Serbian leadership for defending the state. Mrs. Komic, what is further very harmful, if this contract is concluded, should not forget the serious consequences that remained due to NATO's fact on the territory of then-Yugoslavia, now territory covered by the Republic of Serbia with its northern and southern Autonomous province of KIM. What's still very strange, our weapons are not consistent with NATO. Our gun, our rifle, our weapons can't be in any function if we join NATO. Not a gun bullet can be covered, nor can it be matched. What are we going to do with the weapons we have - destroy it? Do you know how much it would cost to join NATO? About $100 billion would be at the expense of the Republic of Serbia. Every contract that is signed must be designed to protect, above all, our interests. What did Churchill say? Churchill said: “We do not have permanent friends, nor do we have permanent enemies, we only have our own constant interests. “ This results in us having only damage if we join NATO, no benefit. Serbia should build its own dedicated industry, develop it. As is known, our dedicated industry finds a market in friendly countries. Therefore, the SRS, given the consequences NATO left in Serbia's space, when 121 industrial facilities were destroyed, leaving 600,000 jobless workers overnight, destroyed more than 480 schools, colleges, facilities for students, students, children, significantly damaged or completely destroyed, so that close to a million students or students interrupted schooling with NATO facts. If we forget what NATO did, from the 1990s to the end of the war, I think it's wrong. We need to take care of our territory. We need to keep an eye on who we're working with. How much has been destroyed by NATO, homes of health, hospitals? It destroyed and significantly damaged 7,000 public institutions and housing facilities, the Chinese embassy, destroyed 60 bridges, nineteen railway stations, thirty-four highways, thirteen airports, as well as disabled co-operation on the main roads and closed the entire waterway along the Danube River. In order not to list, I think Minister Sutanovac is also familiar with these consequences and informed. The damage that NATO has done to us is estimated to exceed $100 billion. Please, Mr. Minister, let's not forget that. Let us turn to our friends, turn to Russia, which gives us a hand in any case, turn to the friendly countries of Africa and Asia, Latin America. In that case, Serbia will also build bridges, Serbia will build both planes and build tanks, not only "Te84", but we have a dedicated industry, we have experts, where we can build modern weapons, so that Serbia does not defend itself tomorrow with slings, but to defend itself with produced weapons in its country.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53389	13 minutes of the parliamentary group's time has been used, given the need for an explanation by the chairman. The stenogram works, given that I apologized to MP Zoran Ostojić for, I thought, miscalculated time for the parliamentary group, the service calculated the time well. The confusion arose over the fact that the time of 15 minutes and 36 seconds was, and meanwhile one of the members of the parliamentary group came forward, so that the time of the LDP parliamentary group was 14 minutes and 24 seconds, so I informed the MP in good time and in good time that he had used the time available to the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SRS believes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should not pass the Law on confirming the contract between the Serbian government and the Group of National Directors for Codification – Allied Committee 135, on the adoption of the NATO codification system, because we consider it to be one of the hidden ways of silent and gradual introduction of Serbia into an international military organisation that is all, just not peaceful, and all but democratic. If that were the case, not only did we feel it in Serbia and Montenegro, it was not only the Serbs in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska who felt it, but not just the citizens of Afghanistan and Iraq, but also the citizens of Libya felt it today. It's just a question, now you can put it on the bookies -- which is the next country in the world to be attacked by NATO? What is amazing is that NATO acts even against its founding act calling for the UN Charter, collective security, world peace, good relations between states and nations. However, practice shows that NATO behaves quite the opposite of that and then asks a fundamental question – why does the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia need through ratification of such an agreement to sort of introduce Serbia into the lobby of an international military alliance, although it does not belong there at all? If I understand Mr. Minister correctly, we need to bring in, or ratify this contract, because after his ratification we are supposed to sell our weapons and our military equipment to the Americans, the Germans, the Great Britain, France, Italy and who knows what other NATO country. That's not true at all. The likelihood that our dedicated industry appears on a market that is extremely controlled, which is monopolised by NATO states and is almost flat zero. Furthermore, the question arises – how has our dedicated industry so far been successful and could export arms and military equipment, and we have not been in NATO's codification system? The SRS doesn't see that that's why our dedicated industry has suffered any damage. The SRS believes that the Republic of Serbia made a catastrophic mistake both politically and economically, when it seduced the trade sanctions of Libya among the world's first and on the orders of the same NATO. For all I know, we've just sold our weapons and our military equipment to countries like Libya. The Libyans didn't ask for our military industry to be in the NATO codification system. Many countries in the world did not ask for that either. Instead of Serbia being the last country in the world to impose sanctions on Libya, not only because we ourselves have suffered unjust sanctions from the UN and the EU but also because Libya has always had traditional friendly relations with us; a country that has not recognised KIM independence. You saw, the breaking news was when Mr. Boris Tadic visited Kuwait, that there was nothing controversial about the visit, because Kuwait did not recognise the independence of KIM. That's nice, but then why don't these same media authorities that are under control say that we've imposed trade sanctions on a country that's exposed to NATO aggression and refused to recognise KIM's independence? Not only that, we have imposed trade sanctions on the country which in 1992 supported Serbia and the Serb people, because this same Gaddafi asked Ali Izetbegovic not to conclude the execution, primarily for Muslims in BiH, a political agreement with Croats and Americans, but to give up co-operation with Serbs. If Ali Izetbegovic had listened to him, there would have been no war in BiH, and there would have been no mass crimes in BiH. The question now arises – what reasons drove the state of Serbia to impose trade sanctions on a friendly country, a country where there is an apparent armed rebellion and where NATO appears as someone who supports the armed rebellion in Libya. What is also unclear and what Mr Sutanovac failed to say about this police co-operation, what is the position of the Serbian state, when it comes to police co-operation with neighbouring countries, above all with Croatia and BiH? We witnessed the fact that the Republic of Serbia, under the pressure of Croatia and under the pressure of the EU, released the freedom of a man with white evidence that he participated in crimes against Serbs in Vukovar in 1991. That's where I think of Tihomira Purda. How is it possible for the government in Serbia to get hot slaps from their EU friends every day, from month to month, year to year? For ten years, we've been listening to stories about how it didn't work out in the '90s, supposed to be combative, aggressive, we couldn't talk to the world, so the world didn't understand us. Here, for ten years we've been peaceful, listening to everything this same world tells us, so I don't see that we have any benefits, we citizens and the whole country, from such a single policy. Now we're good, now we're compatible with standards, now we're working together, but they, from month to month, let the criminals who killed Serbs, first Ejup Ganic, then Jovan the Wild, and then we let Tihomir Purda go on our own. To be the biggest shame, Serbia's MUP recently arrested, according to the regime media, the war mayor Trebinj, Bozidar Vučurovic, on the charge of Croatia, because it is allegedly, beware, as the president of the municipality, which was insane, it could not have happened in any army in the world, and especially not in any communist JNA, which was trained by some Brozovish standards and where the lower command strictly executed the order of more command; tell me, when it was JNA, when any army in the world listened to what a president of the municipality would say to her and when some president of the municipality determined the legitimate objectives of an army? It didn't happen in any army in the world, so it couldn't have happened in the JNA. However, here we are now witnessing that the Republic of Serbia, in the pursuit of Croatia, the same Croatia that committed genocide, from 1991 to 1995, not only in the actions "Bleak" and "Storm" but in some other actions, we arrest the former president of the municipality of Trebinje, because he allegedly commanded JNA artillery that was operating in Dubrovnik. In this regard, no one in Serbia is found to ask the same Croatia what Croatian artillery was looking for in Dubrovnik, and that is the same logic of the action they applied, as my colleague Petar Jojic said, got up in World War II. They put a machine gun on the Catholic church and shoot, and when partisans or Chetniks tear down that church, or church tower, the Vatican rises and says, "Here, the outlaws destroy Catholic churches." Why didn't you ask that same Croatia, the same Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, whom you intend to bestow, what were Croatian cannons looking for in Dubrovnik in 1991? If Dubrovnik was a historical monument, a cultural monument, what will heavy artillery in the cultural monument, which has worked according to the positions of JNA? When JNA returned, then Croatia, with the air support of the same NATO and most EU members, said that JNA allegedly destroyed the Mediterranean pearl – Dubrovnik, and we as if we were blind, as if we were deaf, as if a great evil had not happened in the past 20 years, we act as if we do not know anything, as if we do not have any national dignity, no national pride, no national memory, we arrest the former president of Trebinje municipality. I don't know what we're proving. That we are in line with European standards, that we want faster and better in NATO, that we are ready to give in to Croatia everything she asks of us, that every whim of people who lead today's Croatia we want to meet, but then the question arises – where does this lead? It's an elemental thing, so every student who studies at the Faculty of Law, who knows even the least about international law, knows that the basic principle in international relations is the principle of reciprocity. Tell me, what is this reciprocity where on one side, the more Serbs you kill, the more protection you have from the international community? It seems that Ejup Ganic killed little Serbs in Sarajevo in 1992. Too bad a thousand JNA soldiers didn't die. That's when no one should arrest him. That's too bad. Jovan Divjak did not order the killing of tens of thousands of Sarajevo Serbs, they cut off their heads on Igman and Trebevic, they needed more, because it was obvious -- the more they killed them, the more you are friends of the EU and NATO. So there's no reciprocity. We need everyone, whoever is marked by Croatia, whoever is marked by BiH, we have to arrest, we have to process, allegedly it is our international obligation, but when you look at the other side of what is happening, you saw that Serbia had to succumb to the pressure of the first Ustasha organisations from Croatia who protested against the arrest of Tihomir Purda, and what Mr. Petar Jojic told you is the living truth, among other things, bearing pictures of Ante Pavelic, Serbia has agreed to release such a man...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53391	People's MP, please speak of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53392	Mrs. Comic, there's no need to beg me, but that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53393	Then I warn you to devote at least a little bit of your discussion to the agenda, even by mentioning NATO, because you're talking about a time when NATO has not yet been formed, so World War II. So please talk a little bit about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53394	Mrs. Komic, I'm saying, you know this well, but for some reason you're trying to be funny about topics that aren't funny at all, so I'm talking about the fact that Serbia, a few days after the first-ever demonstrations in Zagreb and Split, let Tihomir Purda go free.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53395	People's MP, I remind you of the obligation to talk about the agenda with a reminder that all MPs during this session today are allowed to practically just mention the subject of the agenda, everyone, except one, and I ask you to at least mention it without violating other provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so that I do not have to interrupt you. So, NATO, but within the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53396	Mrs. Comic, I'm sorry, maybe you can use cable television to track that famous "The History Channel", there's an American series that says that Americans have just recruited former SS officers to work for them in East Germany.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53397	The second world war, NATO was neither formed nor formed, cannot be treated as the breadth of the argument. So, please at least talk a little bit about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53398	Mrs. Komic, as far as I know, NATO was formed in April of 1949. That same year, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Democratic People's Republic of Germany were formed. So, NATO has also existed, and NATO has also worked to make former Nazi generals...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53399	In 1949, the Second World War was over. Please don't speak of World War II, but of NATO, as the "pact" has been contained in the NATO word since 1949.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53400	So, Nazism, in your opinion, isn't a socially dangerous phenomenon if it didn't happen during World War II? As far as the contract itself is concerned, the issue – which are NATO countries in which the Serbian dedicated industry will now be able to export arms and military equipment. Do not list countries that entered NATO yesterday and which objectively do not meet EU political and economic standards, but have been admitted into the EU for daily political reasons. Here I think of two neighbouring countries bordering the Republic of Serbia. I ask the defence minister, I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia does this mean that the Serbian dedicated industry, now that you of the assembly majority have ratified this contract with NATO, i.e. will the Serbian dedicated industry be able to export its products to the United States, to the United Kingdom, France and Germany, when it will happen, and how much will Serbia benefit from this co-operation? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: can I say now? You can when I'm done. Furthermore, the question arises -- how is it possible that the Serbian dedicated industry has successfully functioned for more than half a century without being in this NATO codification system, which, as it has been here in the context of the treaty, has been instigating since 1958? So, this NATO codification system isn't since yesterday, so if we have to accept it faster or better, it's been there since 1958. Serbia's dedicated industry has not operated under this system practically until these days and is still not operating. I don't see why she suffered any damage. We can today export our weapons and military equipment to countries that are outside NATO, which are friendly to Serbia, which have not recognised the independence of KIM, which do not humiliate us, but for some reason... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: What are these lands? Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away. Insolence was never a measure of reason, so it's not in your case either. The question arises why we do not cooperate with countries that want to cooperate with us and who are friendly, and at all costs we try to work with countries that do not want us to. For ten years, we have been listening to the story that we should join the EU, and now some parties from the ruling coalition say -- we should join NATO as well. Excuse me, why don't you come in? Who's stopping you from coming in? Here you have been entering the EU for ten years. Who's your problem? You've met every possible standard. Whenever a law comes to the National Assembly, you say it's according to European standards. That he puts aside the law that you passed six months ago, which was also according to European standards, you don't need to give any explanation on the subject. So you've met all the standards. We're going one step further. We meet standards, not only of the official European institutions, but of the so-called European experts. So as they interpret our Constitution, that's how we have to act. We will remove the blank resignations, change the electoral system, do who knows what, because some god-awful expert in some EU country thinks that's the way to do it. That's not a good way to go for Serbia. And these ten years have shown that this is not a good way for Serbia. This contract is proof of the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia is leading one secret policy, that one is speaking, and that the other is working. It is publicly against Serbia's entry into NATO, secretly and as it is working to join the international, aggressive and violent military organisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53401	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53402	Thank you. The peak of parliamentaryism in Serbia is when you invent something, and then you debate with yourself, in the belief that you have defeated yourself. Serbia has not imposed any trade sanctions on Libya. Serbia and Libya have extremely friendly relations. If you're interested, I also have personal quality relations with the Gaddafi family. But what is the fact is that the UN has imposed sanctions on the ban on arms trafficking and military equipment supported in the UN by all participating countries, including those friendly countries in Serbia. On the one hand, however, this is not the topic of today’s session. What you asked and what I'm going to answer you, very precise. In the past two years, the weapons and military equipment that Serbia has sold worldwide, in a sum of 84 million, went to the United States, about 25 million for Belgium, one large part for Bulgaria, then Italy, etc. The biggest purchase of our weapons went from Iraq, then, from America, then from Afghanistan, then from Belgium. So, on the list of these great friendly countries you mention, there are no customers. I'd like you to say what countries these are, since I'm looking for such countries. The fact is that those countries you call friendly are in this codification contract right now, because there are 63 countries. I remind you, there is, therefore, both the Russian Federation and Brazil, etc. The criticisms you are referring to today to Serbia are criticisms of all those countries that are within that standard. I don't think that what you're doing benefits Serbia, or that it's using our defence system, or our military industry, and I'm getting the exact information now that we've exported about $15 million to Italy, and in Bulgaria, $16 million. So, Serbia's biggest exports, besides Iraq, are just exports to NATO countries, and we want to appear through NATO code in those countries where we haven't had the opportunity so far. On the other hand, you're talking about the successes of our defense industry. You can hardly talk about it, because at a time when you were in charge of Serbia, that defence industry was totally devastated and destroyed. People were out of work, strike hunger, and no vision whatsoever of how to get rid of it in the future. So, to talk about something as a good result, I'd appreciate it if you'd say that's exactly the result of this government's last four years of government rule, when we managed to get back to the world market. If you don't agree with that, just give me an argument and tell me one country with which you had contracts in your time. We were just saying the same thing earlier that we should, you said that the country should be sprayed with zeolithic, which is threatened by the reactive substances that were dumped in 1999 on Serbia. I remind you, you were in power at that time, and I ask you – why didn't you do it then, but you left ten years after that, there was a debate in parliament on the subject? If you think the people have forgotten what you've been doing, believe me, I'm here to remind them, only today is not a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53403	Mr. Martinovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53404	If you, Mr. Sutanovac, have spoken to me personally, I must tell you that I have never run Serbia and that you are in charge of Serbia today. At a time when you run Serbia, people cut their fingers, jump out the window, throw themselves off buildings, are forced to lie on rail tracks so that some minister will look at them and try to solve their economic and social problems. This is the reality of Serbia, ten years after the "bubbledozer revolution" of 5 October 2000, after ten years of meeting all possible and impossible real and depriving standards of the EU and NATO. I look forward to the success of our dedicated industry. As far as I'm concerned, God forbid we export to all NATO countries, but you failed to mention those key countries. Don't tell me Bulgaria is a key country of NATO. Questions arise – how does Serbia have a growing external trade deficit from year to year? How is inflation greater than projected for the first few months of this year? How is it that this same Stefan File makes it clear to you – don't count on the things that are done, that you will receive EU candidacy in October. If it were all the way you say it was, I wish it was, but unfortunately it wasn't. The reality in Serbia is much worse and much harder than what you tried to present. What the SRS thinks and cannot convince us otherwise, it is the state of Serbia, better said the Government of the Republic of Serbia, runs a double-college policy. One is a policy for the public, one is a policy for the media, one is a policy for parliament, and something else is a real policy that is being led. The real policy under way is a secret policy, an Arctic policy, a policy that most citizens of Serbia do not know about. I ask you, if any MPs of the ruling coalition, don't count us from the SRS... (President: Time. Would you like to speak more from the time of the group? )......................................................................................................... Here, I'm done. Does one ruling coalition MP know what the actual content of the talks with Albanians at KIM is? What is there to talk about, except that we're getting haired reports on the state media how the talks are going successfully, as soon as we haven't agreed? It is the same when it comes to the EU, and it is the same situation when it comes to NATO. So, secret politics, a small number of people are directed to this policy and the largest number of Serbian citizens, in fact, do not know what the official position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53405	Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53406	I'm sorry, but I mentioned earlier that the biggest export since Iraq is individually in the United States. If it's not a relevant country to you, then I don't know which one you mean. What's the fact is that you told the truth. You led Serbia at the worst time for Serbia. The government of Mirko Marjanovica is the majority SRS government. He was the one who transferred more, and on the other hand they were the SPS and JUL coalition. The largest number of ministers in the government was just from the SRS, at a time when children were kicked out of kindergarten, out of school, and people were moving out of their apartments. That's when you were in charge of Serbia. Don't hide behind it if it wasn't you. You may not have been personally, but you have supported, and you support, and you desire that time to return. A time when you taught us how to conduct democracy in Serbia, with a gun in the assembly, with a gun on the street. I agree completely that we should not open topics that are not on the agenda. On trade exchanges and external trade deficits, the economy minister will tell you. Everything you've said is absolutely false.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53407	Mr. Martinovic, we're done with the replicas right now. Excuse me, Minister first. Do you agree to hear from Minister Kiric? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53408	President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me just say, about what a respected colleague mentioned, as far as the trade deficit is concerned. The trade deficit has been a problem both Serbian and former Yugoslav, however long you like, for decades. What is accurate is that this trade deficit, mentioned earlier, has been falling since the start of the economic crisis. Last year, if I'm not mistaken, it was about five billion euros. Before the crisis he was at the level, I don't have the exact indicators, but around, about seven billion euros. So there's been a decline in the trade deficit. In any case, I agree with you that the problem of the Serbian economy is systematic in terms of the trade deficit. Only a few indicators: last year, in 2010 compared to 2009, we had export growth, only if you allow, of 24% in euros; for January and February of this year, compared to January and February 2010, export growth is 36 and 37%, respectively, which are good indicators. Industrial production is growing, in no way does it mean that we are now a country of prosperity, but purely for discussion also because of other fellow MPs, but also because of other things, another indicator. We managed in 2010 to significantly increase the coverage of exports, mostly with EU countries. Let me remind you, the EU's largest trading partner in number one of the Republic of Serbia with, say, Italy, with Austria, Slovenia has really increased the coverage of exports by five, ten and 20% by five, and 20%, which is a good indicator. In that direction we should go, but the trade deficit as such has been steadily decreasing over the last two years, i.e. goes in favour of the Serbian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53409	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Martinovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister Sutanovac seems to have failed to say, by chance or on purpose, that the Serbian dedicated industry and when it exports to the market of NATO countries, exports with the intermediation of US merchants, and they earn on the export of our military equipment, and that is also one big truth. As far as political reminisce and return to the past, we can do it, it's nothing controversial, I just expect Minister Sutanovac to tell me how many centuries it takes from this famous year 2000, and finally you from the DS say it – it's up to us now that the political and economic situation in Serbia depends on us. We've been listening for 10 years to see how difficult things have been for the past 10 years. Whether it should be 100 years, 200, 500 years, so to speak, we are the only ones responsible for the situation in which Serbia is. You honor me, who I was never a minister to, unlike you who are now, I didn't cut any kids because it was, or his parents, a member of the SPS. No Serbian radical has entered the then Federal Assembly with machine guns. Tell me if an SRS MP set fire to any election material, which is what you of the DS did, and then you are invited to respect someone's European and democratic standards. Mr. Sutanovac, the true and real situation in Serbia is something quite different from what you represent. If that's as you say and as your distinguished colleague says, and that means the DS will win 250 seats in the National Assembly in the next election, you'll win. It's a great situation in Serbia, there's no problem. What foreign trade deficit? What inflation? What kind of delicacy? What kind of misery? What kind of unemployment? It's not there. Now we're going to export to America our military equipment, our tanks, our trucks and our bullets, and now we're going to live great. [[President: Replication timed out.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53411	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53412	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, how much time do we have as a parliamentary group? (President: thirty-nine minutes. Thank you. I'd just like to remind you of some chronology. Remember in 1999, some who accepted the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, friends coming to KIM, will be NATO, will guard Serbs. I would also remind myself of the fact that an agreement was ratified a few years ago, on the agreement that Serbia allows the United States to cruise its troops through Serbia, and then another minister explained it by the fact that there is a great danger that terrorists attack UN members on KIM, so they have nowhere to go, is their best route through Serbia, because it is safe there. In other places, it couldn't. Well, this debate can last, we're used to this situation. Take that severance, Mr. Sutanovac, for the second time. There's gonna be some trade for the state. What do I do? He always runs when I say something. I wish we could talk about ISO standards today, or talk about these IEN standards. However, NATO standards are being discussed. What NATO says about standardisation and codification, which corresponds in a letter to the defence ministry's position and, behold, the SDPR. Last time I told you, you don't know where it starts or where it ends, and where it starts, and where it ends, and where the Department of Defense ends. But what we certainly know, we don't have an army, and we have the Ministry, by standards. What does NATO say? In 2000, NATO decided that standardisation would become the main lever for strengthening the internal organisation of NATO members. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, we are talking about a very important cohesion factor that is at stake in NATO's structure. What NATO people say – Standardisation in NATO is the process of developing and introducing concepts, doctrines and procedures aimed at achieving, maintaining and improving a demanding level of compatibility, exchangeability and alliance, on the basis of operations, procedures, techniques, administrations and means of interoperability. So that's not what a number needs to be talked about to hit a gun cap, so the number will sell the gun better than entering NATO's very essence and NATO's existence. You must know, NATO boasts. Why? In 1990, they did not know that they were defined, or who they were, or what they were, a military Warsaw Pact disappeared, and what they should do. Then BiH happened, and they say in every place -- thank BiH. Thanks to BiH, they have defined themselves, thanks to the death of 100,000 people they have found a modus vivendi for NATO. Some come to us like this, so they glorify us NATO. Go to Varvarin, to Grdelica, to Batajnica, and celebrate NATO with the families of the dead. What is further is said by your NATO – NATO's strategic concept of using force was changed in the summer of 99th in line with the Alliance's Military Committee decisions, adopted at a Washington meeting. According to Article 5. The Washington agreement, NATO is putting an emphasis on interoperability, development and maintenance of military forces. Listen gentlemen in uniforms – future Union operations will characterize the participation of more countries, actions will last a long time, will take place in the border areas of the Alliance, will be more mobile, and the main force will make for a smaller multinational composition. All of this is achieved through standardisation and codification. I can only characterize it with the state of the brain that is in the “alpha”, when someone finds an argument that Russia has that standardisation and codification. This Russia has 25 world-renowned military and cosmic industries, and of course it wants to fight for its market, and our problem is that we're not as big as Russia. Russia has run over NATO with standards and codification, and as things stand, China has gone far, 60 percent of the world's steel produces China itself, for some quantity of steel is known where it is, some are assumed to be in the development of the military industry. A few years ago, your American friends passed out when they heard there was a rocket that, somewhere in China, hit their meteorological satellite, which died and was blown to pieces, because no one today has that technology. Put that ball down when you're talking, when you're celebrating something. What are you saying next? NATO planners argue that standardisation is not itself a goal, but a means to achieve certain political goals of the alliance. So when 126 votes to ratify this treaty, you vote to achieve NATO's political goals. One of the NATO alliance's political goals is also to complete the process of forming an army of an independent state of Kosovo. So, you who raise your hand, you are to end the process of forming an army of Kosovo. NATO says Kosovo has no enemies, except that Serbia is a major challenge. So, when you raise your hand, you raise your hand to Thaci, you raise your hand to get the weapons out of here to Kosovo, and tomorrow you shoot Kursumli, Leskovac, Medvedja, Bujanovac from Kosovo. You enjoy achieving NATO interests and meeting all Brussels requirements in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's why it's no wonder it's getting smaller now. It is no longer 25% of citizens who share a nice view of NATO and the EU, but are decreasing. Because of those 75 who are opponents of NATO and such a steep road into an ambience, called the European Union, here, Mr. Radulovic, I invite you to invite Mr. Sutanovac on Monday, in the Municipality of Rakovica, I will show you a German film about NATO and NATO aggression, and I invite you all to see. You who have the condition of the brain “alpha”, that is the meditation, are only heard – the European Union, NATO, EU-NATO, in the rhythm of dance music, as in Africa, boom-ba-boom-ba techno. That's the policy today. It is a technical policy today – the EU, the EU, the EU has no alternative, NATO, NATO, NATO. Is there something else? There isn't. Let's move on. What are these codification standards binding? You see, it is binding to standardise common doctrine, tactics and procedures, both for current and future actions of allies. So when someone in Serbia boasts that our army has won all NATO standards, they boast that it is in NATO's office. In a few days you can organize here and mobilize. You have a marathon -- Belgrade is the world, you can invite everyone who is NATO representatives, Sutanovac can immediately recruit them to join NATO troops against Libya. It doesn't matter that Tadic won the greatest medal of the Libyan people two months ago. What do you care? You're operating on a system of benefits. That's what I'm saying to make the citizens understand what's going on. Now, let me skip a little bit, since this time is passing. You see, there's a whole system that's hidden behind the concepts of standardisation and codification. We have a conference of national directors of weapons, so the Military Committee, so the Council of Commanders and Controllers, so the Conference of Logisticians, the NATO Standardisation Agency, four committees, each has its own subcommittees, etc. Furthermore, we have this Allied Committee 135, which is not such a harmless institution. Here is what is more in their function – improving the use of the codification system in Member States and various agencies, preventing unnecessary duplication in the codification process, increasing the efficiency of NATO forces, increasing the efficiency of NATO liaison services. You who vote are to increase the efficiency of the NATO service. Further – making and publishing rules and procedures to ensure maximum efficiency in the application of the codification system, taking care of its expansion among non-NATO countries. One of the goals is yet to standardise and perfect the logistics process, supply of equipment, stock management, storage, distribution, out of use, destruction of funds. When you get into this system, there's some guy out there in Belgium who's going to type on the computer, and you're going to know everything. There's no military secret. After all, NATO is also in all structures of the existing Ministry of Defence and the military. So Duca left you, moved forward, from the secretary of state, now he's an ambassador, now he's in charge of a relationship there in Istanbul. Don't let me read you these other things. Here's how the Djetici did, since they already ratified it, they got national number 77 and the letter "VH", and their producers got "A", three numbers and "W". If that happens in Serbia, then our letters will be "BT" – Boris Tadic, 77, will not be, there will be another number, and as far as producer codification is concerned, it will be "D", three numbers, "S" – Dragan Sutanovac. It will be known for centuries to be remembered for the great contributions they have made to breaking the tissues of the Republic of Serbia and endangering the national interests of this people. Of course this is a question where we should say what we think of NATO. I'm very pleased when Mr. Sutanovac explains NATO. Then at 75%, we'll probably jump to 99%. He does it so convincingly, and I am not surprised that NATO has long made a decision that Serbia will never be a NATO member, remember, as a decision has been made that Serbia will never be a member of the European Union. Never. Remember. Cut down on those illusions and those stories. He also started working on this "beta" part of the brain in Serbia, not just an "alpha", not just a Zumba-Zumba-EU-NAD. The sooner we, dear citizens, break away from this way of thinking, the sooner we will see what kind of desolation this eleven-year-old EU government has left in Serbia. We live by NATO standards and EU standards, and that is why this life is so cruel to us. That's why we get overseas pucks on all sides - organized crime, corruption, etc. I don't want to talk any further. You all know that very well. Run away from NATO and the EU, don't trust the West. Whoever trusted the West is either in jail or dead. Thank you, Mrs. Comic, for not punishing me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53413	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, has a word. You have 26 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, we are increasingly witnessing the fact that actually the state of Serbia is not a sovereign state. We can responsibly claim this, because every day in this House, we are in a position to adopt the laws that someone else has written to us, and they come here only to vote. Actually, they come and they have to vote for them. Here I was just in one meeting, and that's why I didn't participate in the first part of this debate where we tried to convince the ruling majority's representatives to find someone in Serbia who was able to write a draft of a law, not listen at all to the EU. The EU, among other things, imposes a violation of its own constitution, and this is now jeopardising the sovereignty of a serious state. When it comes to international agreements, agreements, we have to recognise one fact, we sign these agreements, or the representatives of the authorities sign only on the EU's orders, and in this case NATO's orders. We are witnessing in this previous period that 99% of these agreements or contracts that are ratified, previously signed by someone. Which is also completely dubious, for someone from the government to sign a contract, and then for representatives of the assembly majority to ratify it, instead of taking a position, in the Assembly, when it comes to some topics going into the white world for discussion. When it comes to this government and the president of the state, that's where they go for their own opinion. So, 99% of these contracts or agreements that are confirmed in this House are either made by the EU's order, because of some so-called. the European route, or in the interest of the other Contracting Party. That's what the problem is. Here, the state of Serbia has signed, and here it is confirmed, dozens of different contracts or agreements with Croatia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, on extradition, on police co-operation, and today we have one on the agenda. Practice has shown that these agreements and contracts are simply for, say, Croatia, BiH or Montenegro to have the legitimacy to arrest people from Serbia, on a variety of warrants, or to protect criminals of organised crime in the territories of their countries, and the state of Serbia, of course, has no benefit from these agreements. As a consequence of one such agreement, we have, for several days now, in custody, in the court, in Sapac, Mr. Vučurevic, who was the wartime president of Trebinje Municipality, who was arrested by the red warrant of the Croatian Ustasha regime and is in prison in Šapec. Since no one in the state reacts in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the obligations of the Serbian state, to take care of every Serb, wherever he is, because they say in a statement of reason – Vučurevic will be extradited because he is not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, as if that is at all important. That is why the SRS will organise a major protest rally Thursday, at 6pm in Sapac, at the Basic Court due to the extradition of Serbs by the regime to the Croatian Ustasha regime. We are confident that a large number of citizens will support us at the meeting, because it is quite certain that the vast majority of Serbian citizens do not want Serbs to be extradited by orders, as far as they come to mind, and especially not to be extradited to the Ustasha Croatian regime. We have here today a proposal for three laws to confirm the contract, one is a contract, and two on confirming the agreement. Of course, all colleagues, or most, spoke most of this contract between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Defence, and the Group of the National Directors of NATO for Codification. So, about the adoption of the NATO codification system. Interestingly, at the outset, the minister said that this was not a political issue, but by obtaining this number from this contract, our military industry will flourish. If we hadn't had the agreement with Libya on the agenda a few days ago, it was also written in the light of the agreement that it was in the interest of the development of our military industry with the friendly state of Libya and the friend of the Serbian people, Muammar el Gaddafi. What happened? It's off the agenda. So how is it suddenly that such a thing is not in the interest of the development of the military industry and is not in the interest of the Serbian state? Of course, because you got a warrant from Brussels and Washington. You show daily that you are puppets in the hands of Brussels and Washington and that this people are trying to lead a team of so-called team. The European route, which will actually lead Serbia into a completely sub-sidic position with regard to the US and other Western forces. Just because you put it on the agenda, so you downloaded the proposal for an agreement with Libya, how can we trust you to believe that this is not an absolute political proposal? Of course it is. Your intention to co-operate with NATO is more than obvious. Your intention, the assembly majority's intention to introduce Serbia into NATO, is also more than obvious. More and more Serbian government officials say they are personally, see, Minister Sutanovac has repeatedly said that he personally advocates Serbia's entry into NATO, but that there is no consensus at the government level yet, that it is not a political moment for this to happen, etc. We of the SRS, of course, strongly oppose any thought of Serbia entering NATO. We, well known to the public, repeat, oppose Serbia's entry into the EU. Not until NATO, save God. So who has the right to introduce Serbia into NATO after a criminal aggression against our country and our people in 1999? Who has the right to forget the hypocritical “White Angel”? You can't even think about it. You, of course, were already in June, or when it was, scheduled some NATO summit in Serbia, and you are getting closer and closer to that criminal organization. Of course, we are confident that the citizens of Serbia will prevent you in some of the next elections, and if it comes to a referendum with such questions being called. Since it is common that when we Serbian radicals criticize some government proposal, then they say, well, what are you offering? Of course, every time we criticize something, we know exactly what would be the right solution and we have a solution. We never criticise the cobwebs, we have a solution for problems in every segment of society, even when it comes to the security of the state and this one, don't give God, an idea to join NATO. The Serbian Radical Party, of course, has an alternative. We believe that the only way, which allows Serbia to survive, is the most possible and closest possible co-operation with Russia and China and countries that will not put any political pressure on Serbia or demand anything contrary to the interests of our country and, particularly, will not interfere with Serbia's internal affairs. Unfortunately, this European route of yours speaks of you allowing us and how they interfere with internal affairs, from putting some people in certain places, to writing the bill, to ordering that it must be adopted, etc. So, the SRS, I repeat, and all my colleagues have said, is most strongly opposed to Serbia's entry into NATO. Your regime actually deceives citizens that Serbia can only achieve its full security as a NATO member. You don't say that officially, but some ministers are more and more talking about it. In particular, this is not possible in a situation where this alliance, by the power of its force, of its weapons, is increasingly taking away Kosovo and Metohija, and you are increasingly agreeing to that, too indirectly. We should draw attention, the colleagues also said, that there is an alternative path, a path that is much better for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia, which you avoid talking about, avoid even participating in the organisation, or as observers. I'm talking about the ODKB, and the call that was avoided here in this House, so the representatives of the SRS went, because it was really unthinkable to invite you to the Russian Federation and the Russian ambassador without you answering that call without any explanation. We're here yesterday, I think, or this morning, how complicated it is. The road to NATO isn't complicated, it's simple. They order, you vote, and they leave. The ODKB path, they say, is very complicated. We would also like to remind the ruling majority and the public in Serbia that today they are increasingly getting institutionalised regional systems of the Euro-Asian collective security, such as the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation, led by China and Russia, which also has its military wing, and I was just talking about it, which is the Organisation of Agreements on collective security, i.e. the ODKB. It is, by the way, already known as "small NATO". The SRS advocates that Serbia become a member of the ODKB and that we get the status of observers in the Shanghai organisation. Of course, we have to make sure that Serbia, although no one officially admits it since 2000, is under full protection and military control of the United States, and as terrible as that sounds to you, you know that it is true. It's very scary for us, too, but it's a fact. Security in these last 11 years, Serbia's security, not that it has not improved, has already been dramatically worsened, and that, above all, by violently ending UN Security Council Resolution 1244, directly by Brussels and Washington. In order to strengthen its security, which is certainly the most significant element of territorial integrity, Serbia must establish significant co-operation with other regional security systems that advocate respect for international law and which do not support the secession of KIM, i.e. which do not recognise the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, because the abduction of part of the territory anywhere in the world is the most difficult form of endangering the security of each country. Any serious state would deal with it in a very different way than Serbian state officials do. You hug and kiss those who have recognised the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo. You admit silently, step by step, the existence of that fact, as you like to say. So, the SRS warns you that the only way out of a solid NATO plier system is now. Through parallel integration and the establishment of co-operation and with other regional collective security organisations, above all the ODKB, Serbia can create conditions to move from passive, lossful policies to an active security policy. Government representatives and representatives of the assembly majority should also take care of that. Don't just vote for everything you're offered, so often you don't know what you're voting for. I have no intention of insulting anyone personally with this claim, but the fact is it happens. We'll have in May, as we learned today, on the agenda a bill that was literally written to us somewhere in the white world and that here under the obligation to vote. We therefore warn you that you are under obligation to, above all, take care of the dignity of this state and this people. You can't, because you call the European way, to trample on the dignity of Serbian citizens. Keep in mind that every day there are fewer citizens of Serbia for this European path, because, every day, every day, by your decision, every existential threat by Serbian citizens, which is so present that it is already difficult to support itself, you are actually showing the citizens of Serbia that the SRS is absolutely right to say that every conversation with the EU has to be stopped and that no one can think of introducing Serbia into NATO. So we're going back to what this contract is, which you're planning to conclude with the Group of the National Directors of NATO, in fact, which you've already concluded and which you're looking for to verify here, we're warning you to make sure that Russia, led by the ODKB, is Serbia's strongest ally in defence of KIM. In fact, very often stronger, and more strongly opposes the secession and self-proclaiming of KIM, than the officials of the Republic of Serbia themselves. If nothing else, it would have to be your motive and reason to finally establish that contact with the ODKB, which you avoid persistently, even though you are offered it. Of course, I don't know why you're afraid of it. I suppose you know, and if you don't know, let's tell you, the ODKB has absolutely the same legitimacy in the UN as NATO. There is only one drastic difference: NATO is the enemy of Serbia and the Serb people, NATO has criminally bombed Serbia and the Serb people, NATO bombs killed children in Serbia, and the ODKB is headed by Russia, Russia has shown that the most friendly state in Serbia, because Russia is the most committed to state integrity, i.e. for KIM within the Republic of Serbia. Also, I want to explain a little bit more to you, first of all, to get to know Serbia's public what the ODKB is, to make it clear to the citizens why the SRS advocates co-operation with the ODKB instead of co-operation with NATO. The KDK participates, along with other countries and international organisations, in creating a collective security system in Europe and Asia. Its existence and operation were based and based on Article 51. The UN Statute, which defines the right to collective defense. So everything is absolutely legal, legitimate, just necessary political will. The strategic objective of the ODKB is, I quote, that it is written: "The establishment of a fair democratic world order, whose basis should be: the principle of top international law, mutual respect for the interests and security of the same security for all states. "Did you read and can you imagine the better defined security of every country than that defined by the KDKB? It is truly amazing that you continue to avoid this co-operation, continue to insist on co-operation with the criminal NATO alliance? Also, for the sake of the public, I would like to remind the SRS, at our Eighth Congress, adopted a resolution that envisions co-operation with the ODKB, in order to make as safe and as safe as possible and, in the end, at the beginning of all events, in order to preserve the integrity of the state of Serbia, which nobody else but the Russian Federation and the countries that are on that same path guarantees today. These are not EU countries, i.e. a very small number of EU countries have not recognised KIM, no NATO member country has stepped in protecting the territorial integrity of the Serbian state. We have to face every policy that would lead us further to this political alien. We must not allow ourselves to do so and it is indeed high time for the government of the Republic of Serbia to call upon their minds, to reason and to have to, above all, put the state and national interest of the state of Serbia. What you're doing so far, you've shown nothing that the national interest of Serbia is not only above all but that it matters to you at all, not only when it comes to defence, when it comes to international agreements but at all. You don't care that seven hundred thousand people are in Serbia today, loudly, below the existential level. You don't care that tens of thousands of people in Serbia lose their jobs every week. You don't care that in Serbia you can't live off the salaries and pensions of those who are employed. You don't care what happens to Kim. You don't care what happens to Serbs living in Serbia, and only Serbs living outside Serbia's territory. Don't worry about what you need to be overly concerned about, and it has to be taken care of. Why did none of the officials ask, let's say, Jadranka Kosor, and was Tadic with her, remember when the newspaper wrote that he had promised to be her best man, why didn't he ask her how she allowed Serbs on this list not to be listed as Orthodox, but to be humiliated Greek Catholics? Who cares when it comes to the ruling coalition? Don't worry about anything, just make sure you meet all the EU's orders, fulfill under the grains, the orders you get from NATO. What does Serbia have from that European road trip of yours? No one has been able to explain to Serbian citizens yet. As a mantra, you repeat this European path, obtaining status, etc. Will the citizens live better after that? They won't, so they said, in the EU, Djelic, a few days ago, when he asked for it – give us a little more money now – I guess they'll get the eyes of the citizens – so when you get us into the EU for a decade, give us less. So they told him -- Mr. Djelic, you've confused things, who says that joining the EU is about some money Serbia will get. Of course not. We in the SRS know that, and therefore we warn Serbian citizens that they are taking care of this already in the next elections, to make sure that the SRS is the only party in Serbia is exclusively against Serbia's entry into the EU. Yeah, I don't know why, now that I'm not calling not to be warned, why do some of the chairmans have a significant nod? We express our position as legitimate, we are proud of our position, and we are sure that more and more Serbian citizens will accept this position. I'm done. You told me 27 minutes, it hasn't expired yet. I'll finish when the time's up. (President: It was 26 minutes. Another sentence. Another invitation for all citizens to join us in Sapac on Thursday, at 6 p.m., a rally of support for Mr Vučurević and a protest against the extradition of Serbs to Ustasha...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53415	Thank you. Since you insist on respecting the Rules of Procedure, please. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before I conclude, I ask if anyone else has not used the right of Article 96. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? (No) I am concluding a joint single search on: a bill confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Defence and the Group of the National Directors of Codification – Allied Committee 135 on the adoption of the NATO codification system, on a draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic in police co-operation in the fight against crime and the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kazakhstan on mutual incentive and protection of investment. We'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. I thank you, Mr. Minister, for you and your associates.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53416	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our session in the afternoon. We move to the 19th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTRUCTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS (Single Search) You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić Dejanović. I remind you that the National Assembly has also accepted a proposal to shorten the debate on this motion for a decision, so, according to Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be two and a half hours, as well as that this time shall be allocated to the MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, which shall be the MP group for European Serbia – 46 minutes and 48 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - 34 minutes and 12 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the MP group “Forward Serbia” – 12 minutes and 36 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 12 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - nine minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – seven minutes and 12 seconds; the parliamentary group of New Serbia – five minutes and 24 seconds; the Slavic group of minorities - four minutes and 12 seconds, and the PUPS parliamentary group - three minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak, each, one or two minutes at a time. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to file a statement, on the basis of obligations under Article 96, and on the order of the Members of Parliament. Are there any authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? National MP Vjerica Radeta is an authorised representative of the SRS ambassador group. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the motion for a decision, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the international parliamentary institutions, which we are discussing today, should be a serious alarm for you not to run into the adoption of a law amending the Law on the selection of MPs, which should be on the agenda sometime in May, on the sole order of the European Commission, or the Venice Commission, because, as the coat of arms is born, time does not correct. That's exactly what this motion for a decision we're talking about today is. In light of this decision, you cited, among other things, the basis for a decision, and there is no constitutional basis, because it was a controversial constitutional basis and when you discussed this decision, which we are discussing today, and adopted. We recall that at that time, when this decision was made, it was February 2, 2002, and today these problems are present, problems over a parliamentary group that received the status on the basis of some agreement with the ruling coalition, with Tadic's regime. The parliamentary group formed by the Progressive Party, of course, supported by the ruling coalition, the ruling regime, although, at the time it was formed, it did not go to the elections, and as such did not exist at all on the political scene of the Republic of Serbia. From February 2nd to today, it happened, among other things, that Bozidar Delic, I remind you, all citizens can see, on the list of MPs of this assembly's convocation, the party membership of all MPs exactly as they had at the time of the election, on 11 May 2008, and held, and it is clearly written there, that General Bozidar Delic is a member of the SRS. General Delic officially returned to the SRS with an explanation that he met the Serbian public, disappointed and deceived by what the advancers offered as some solution to the better life of Serbian citizens, and in the meantime he understood their true "political" and their willingness to recognise Kosovo's independence and to extradite General Mladic, which, of course, could not fit into General Bozidar Delic's image, and therefore decided to return to his place, respectively, in the SRS. What are you doing now? You're still making concessions to the Progressive Party, probably because of some promised coalition after the next election, your joint. Of course, what are you going to do when these elections happen and when they win something won in these next elections, it is certainly your legitimate right, but we can never recognise either the legality, or the legitimacy of the existence of the parliamentary group of Nikolic and Vuciceva, which was formed here with the consent of Tadic's regime and the majority of the assembly because they did not go to elections and because they stole the most brutally the electoral will of Serbian citizens and stole the most brutally the mandates of the SRS. The proposal has already been tabled on 30 March, asking for a change in the decision on the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly, and this is specifically about the delegation of the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, where Parliament MP Jasmina Milosevic and the composition of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation, where, among other things, General Bozidar Delic was a member. Of course, when it comes to our former colleague Jasmina Milosevic, who was a member of the SPS Group – JS, of course, everything is absolutely in line with the law. She was a member of the parliamentary group, from that parliamentary list. In agreement with the MP's group, he is no longer an MP, because that's what her MP group decided. The parliamentary group is now making a new proposal instead: to propose to our colleague, Petar Petrovic, who is also a representative of the same SPS-JS parliamentary group in the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. There, of course, no one can make any remarks. We have a big comment on this first point of this decision, where you are giving the delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly a mandate to the deputy member of the Bozidar Delic delegation, and in this delegation, instead of proposing Igor Becic, the representatives of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. It explains that these parliamentary groups have tabled a proposal for this amendment. We just cannot accept that this progressive parliamentary group may have any right, even the right to propose this decision. What is symptomatic is that they were very upset about the fact that Bozidar Delic returned to the SRS and that, meanwhile, a large number of SRS members also returned to the SRS. Just to mention a few examples – in Novi Bece and Kruševec over a hundred, in Vrsac 100, in Priboj 20, in Vranj 50, etc. So there is no municipal board where members of the SRS do not return to the SRS. That, of course, upset Wolf and Nikolic. They are now trying to, in this way, through the institutions of the system, through the Assembly, once again confirm their existence, which, of course, for the congregation's majority, unfortunately, has never been questionable. That is why history will certainly show and it will be written that this mandate of the Assembly was completely illegal and illegal, because it contained one parliamentary group represented by citizens, not MPs, because it was not about people, or the party that went to the elections. Generally, when it comes to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, of course, that as far as the SRS is concerned, we do not have our delegates there, because we think Serbia should join NATO. On the contrary, we believe that Serbia should never enter the EU, nor NATO, but should become members of the collective security agreement organisation, i.e. the ODKB. But we also have our representatives in this delegation, just so that in NATO's seat, the SRS positions, which we are fully open and publicly taking place everywhere and in every place, as we always publicly declare every injustice that the state of Serbia has towards its citizens, or Serbs, as is currently the case with former war mayor Trebinj, Mr Vučurevic, whom you have arrested and you are ready to hand him over to the Ustasha state of Croatia, which is why the SRS in Šapac, on Thursday, at 18 o'clock, organizes a protest rally against Boris Tadic's regime, which is ready, and which apparently starts to extradite Serbs to the Croatian Usta State.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53418	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word to exercise their right? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a single search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. The first to be reported on the list of MPs is Momir Markovic, followed by Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been sitting in these parliamentary benches for over 10 years. I attended the election several times at the constitutive sessions of the Assembly, i.e. the appointment of members of delegations representing Serbia, or the Serbian Parliament, to represent them in front of the international community. Article 26 of our Rules of Procedure states: "The National Assembly shall decide on the establishment of permanent parliamentary delegations for participation in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security of Irrigation (OEBS) and other multilateral parliamentary institutions and organisations. “ It is said: “The motion for a decision on the composition of permanent delegations under Article 1 is submitted by the President of the National Assembly, in consultation with the presidents of parliamentary groups, taking into account the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. “ Article 26 is valid until permanent delegations are established. After that, there's no changing. He was not there until by order of the EU, by order of the United States, to form this monster party. I remind you of the words of my colleague, Mr. Zoran Krasic, when it happened, he said – gentlemen, the Progressive Party will be a rock in our shoe, and you will have a waterstone around your neck. You see, there came a time when everything weighed down on you that waterstone around your neck, when you have to accept their blackmails, their conditions, etc. When you formed that party, you came to an idea, which, in my opinion, and then was insane, that members of the delegation committee, assembly delegations, permanent or temporary parliamentary delegations who went to that Serbian reverse party, would also take those mandates. On the other hand, you've violated Article 102. The constitution, so you allowed the formation of that parliamentary group. Let me remind you, for example, that Portugal, which is an EU member, is subject to the rule that when an MP leaves the political party, on whose list he is elected, he automatically loses his parliamentary mandate. Then we rebelled, demanding that what belonged to the SRS remain the SRS. I remind you that at the time, many SRS MPs, on the Committee, for example, for agriculture, whose president escaped the Serbian radical, received incredible fines according to the Rules of Procedure, as you said then. So, they all took their mandates. Mr. Bozidar Delic, who was able to cheat at one point, vowing that it would be the party that would defend Serbian national interests, was the vice-presidential term. When he comes back, he can do anything as long as the mandates apply, as long as the membership of the SRS applies, but when someone comes back, when someone realizes how much they were wronged, then he can't anymore. Mr Delic cannot bring the post of deputy member of the permanent delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, but you will give the post to the party formed after the elections and to the party who, by the logic of things, and that it is more reasonable, should not sit in this parliament. On the side of all this, to ignore everything and look just a little bit at the quality of those who are going to represent us, who are supposed to represent us. On the one hand, you have a general, a witness fighter, who has proven himself in the bloody struggles in Kosovo against the same NATO, whom NATO has planted with tape bombs on Goražup. On the other hand, you have Igor Bečić, as far as I know, he had some higher school, finished or bought, it doesn't matter. He understands in NATO just as much as the Serbian Progressive Party should, but not as much as it needs the state of Serbia, because NATO, I repeat the story from today when we discussed this contract with NATO, the enemy of Serbia. It has proved itself, it has proved itself -- thousands of tons of cluster bombs have spilled across Serbia, thousands of tons of poor uranium, thousands of tons of bombs, and among them those with poor uranium, it has turned us back and brought us back to the Stone Age, and it has caused damage of over 100 billion. So we don't need a man who's met this beast called NATO, and whose den we're coming to, whether we want it or not, we need someone to nod their heads, we need someone you're going to give that place to because of the concession to Tomislav Nikolic, that 16 doesn't use a six-centimeter styrofoam, but, say, three-inch styrofoam. Gentlemen, you can be afraid of that rally on the 16th. The Serbian Radical Party says they can hold a rally because they said they would hold it out of sight. I can hold him until May 5th, because on May 5th, at that same place, the SRS schedules a rally, the Lord will give the SRS to schedule a rally on the return of the President of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj, since the fourth, the court council will make a decision. I am convinced, given that they have not proved anything, that you, too, Mrs. Komic, will be there five, to welcome him together. On the other hand, as much as you've cut into all of this, it's amazing how much you've cut in the air conditioning, in the crawling position, in giving in, in meeting various conditions, because I know that DS wouldn't have met these conditions, Tomislav Nikolic, if he hadn't ordered the boss. Let me remind you, your boss is the same, the West, both of them. He is now slowly valid who will be more obedient to him, because, you know, Mubarak was very obedient to the United States, but here's what happened to him. They ordered that something be done now, related to the Serbian national interests, be put back there for a little while longer, that you be humiliated and arrested, as you said, by wartime president SO Trebinje – Bozidar Vukurovic, a man who had nothing to do with Trebinje. (President: National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic has nothing to do with the topic of the agenda. I'd like you to stick to the agenda. It has nothing to do with a war crime in Dubrovnik. But I'm going back to the subject. That's why on Thursday, at 6:00 p.m., we'll hold a rally in Sapco, and let anyone come and see themselves as a patriot and a Serb. But I would go back to these delegations. So, the Serbian perverse party, excuse me, the Serbian Progressive Party has ordered you to have the mandate belong to one of them. I know you and your coalition partners are correct. I know that you are serviceable and obedient to your employers, but what does the SNS have to do with you, to deliver your requests on the plate, and to do so? I think for Serbia, too, I repeat, it's a good thing that a man who knows this beast in his soul named NATO represents a state of Serbia at these sessions. For he shall have what he shall see, and what he shall hear, and what he shall say to them, and what they shall hear from him. Don't play. These places belonged to the SRS, they were taken by force, and they were taken often cursed. If these continue to use people's dissatisfaction, to use social misery in achieving their political goal, your only political goal is to get you off the Serbian hump and get them loaded. Nothing the citizens of Serbia will gain, but if they do, believe me, it will be your fault. Unless what is already being said among the citizens of Serbia -- that the same boss will force you to form a coalition of the two parties, so it will be, if you called it a red-black one, this will be a yellow-guarantee coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53420	It's been used 10 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53421	Mrs. Komic, I was under the impression you didn't get Mr. Markovic right. Not on the 16th, but on Thursday, in Šapec, there will be a rally for the arrest of Bozidar Vukurovic. He's confused Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53422	I don't think we have a misunderstanding. Therefore, it is allowed to violate the Rules of Procedure to the extent to which it implies taking care of order, but not all members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53423	Just to correct the inaccuracy, since you know I'm suffering from precision. But I'm glad when I heard you remembered and then there's no need to repeat it, we understand each other. Okay. Mrs. Comic, when I say this about this agenda point, then I mean Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, because she is the official proponent of this motion for a decision and she is the biggest culprit for something that has never happened anywhere. Probably in Caesar's day, where it was, let's say, democracy, they had Senates, senators, courts, magistrates and all sorts of things, but what it was worth to them – Caesar marked that period with his own will. So, Caesar and so on, it didn't happen to make a whole new political party in the National Assembly. Thanks to the regulations that had been passed before, we now have a situation that all members of the SRS are in one parliamentary group. That's what it says on the National Assembly site. If the force counts on membership in the political party, if the election results are respected, then the situation is clear. But here is a specific situation, Mr Delic admitted that he believed in something in one period, in time realized that it was a terrible lie, so simply the man came back and immediately followed the punishment from Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. So nothing changed in the meantime. The man was still a member of the SRS, but could no longer be a deputy member of the delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Look at the wonders, I'm the deputy head of this delegation, Mrs. Comic, you know that well. Now I can tell you what we need in the delegation, what a delegation should be. Right away, let me take off some veil, one big secret – Serbia is in the Partnership for Peace programme. He's not even an associate. As far as our delegation is concerned, we can be present on the so-called team. "RR" seminars, Rose Road seminars, where the situation is mainly considered, they say, in the Western Balkans. Seminars are being held all over Europe. Usually these seminars are funded by the Swiss government and their Ministry of Defence, it takes a few days. At first, it was interesting, but when we saw that there was an empty straw, no one wanted to go to those seminars anymore. Twice a year, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, where members of the delegation can attend meetings of some committees, where some discussions are held on some issues on different committees, etc. There's useful information, too. I can't be wrong about my soul. Mrs. Comic, just so you don't get this wrong now, you know, the National Assembly, the way it is, and we're unhappy, is the concept of a democratic institution for the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. That's where Parliament's president is chosen with a four-second round of applause. The cowboy came out behind the curtain and came back after four seconds and said, "It took a little while, what happened?" I heard I was re-elected president of the Parliamentary Assembly. This is the one, where the pulse is simply touched, there are reasons why it is done, because in many of NATO's strategic goals, after 90 years, this not only politically but also this psychological aspect of finding out that through non-military means, security is being maintained, and military funds serve as a constant threat, is that stick, you know, carrot or stick? Given the dimension of our participation there, and the interest has fallen, Mrs. Komic, I must tell you, it is now difficult for you to find people from this delegation, who would go to these seminars or the Parliamentary Assembly. Not to open my cards to the end, but we've just all seen what kind of singing society it is. Well, Becic loves those singing societies, he'd love to go, and it doesn't matter. So it's not much of an interest. Mrs. Komic, here the Rules of Procedure says, you know, that a sense of tolerance sometimes I'm not really sure if there's a lot of that sense of tolerance, whether there's that sense of parliamentaryism. I remember in 1993 when the Democratic Party fell out of power, so 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, not to tell you how it was in the Assembly. You know, when you rock with power, it changes completely differently in person. I get the impression you're closing the door here a little bit, you're simply not letting anyone give you your tolerance tomorrow. You've promoted so much democratic principles here, of which I'm simply creeping myself out, of which there's no harm to parliamentaryism, but no-wistle interests must come true. Mrs. Comic, when you meet Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, I would ask you to pass on this message to her, as she is the main culprit for this, she is the main culprit for what is causing the dissatisfaction of the Serbian Radical Party and 75% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's the latest research. Seventy-five per cent of Serbian citizens do not want to hear about the European Union and NATO. Why is Mr. Delic a better candidate? Because Mr. Delic said what his relationship to NATO was like. When he learned from the newspapers that Montgomery had concluded a contract with the "white ship", he represented the interests of the "white ship", in America, simply a man threw up. He said – Lord God, I fought, and so many soldiers I saved, so many citizens I saved, look, this Šojić concluded a contract with Montgomery. He just couldn't get over it. I wouldn't be surprised if Mrs Slavica Djukic made a proposal for a decision where the National Assembly is closing a contract with Montgomery to promote the National Assembly better in the United States, because obviously this Petrovic has been doing it since he got married, and he's been doing it badly, the ambassador. That wouldn't surprise me. I wouldn't be surprised if one of the government's representatives came and said, no, with Solana the contract has to be concluded, he'll be even better represented by the interests of RS, how much the basket costs, but to be present everywhere. That Mr. Delic, you see, he couldn't accept, he wouldn't let it, and he just said, "Oh, run away, I don't want to hear about you." It's a similar situation with NATO. Please, people, so we're in the months when NATO bombed RS. We have representatives of the authorities who visit monuments and lay flowers to the victims of NATO aggression, and when they turn around, the journalist answers the question – Serbia is heading towards NATO. You're confusing people. Where are we, where's the official policy of law? What's she manifesting herself in? Mr Delic noted it and it belongs to that group of 75% of RS citizens, and in such a provision, such as the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, strengthened with me, will represent the interest that Serbia is not a NATO seat. I have to tell you, we have a strong criticism of NATO there, and in just the words – where their foot steps, that grass no longer grows. In Afghanistan, drug production has increased, Kosovo and Metohija is the largest drug warehouse, and their joint command is in Naples, and you know who holds Naples. Explain to me whether the place of Serbia and Serbs is there, in such a society. We clearly say that we are protesting, why is NATO building an independent state of Kosovo armed forces? Such people are needed in the delegation. Not the opponent, or this other one, who doesn't care, today this party, tomorrow that party, so I wrote complaints about him, objecting to the UN tribunal, because he was pretending to be a friend. Please, we have to. Clean bill, long love. Furthermore, Mr Delic has a very reasonable attitude towards the EU. Politically, we do not want to follow the EU, which is stealing from us Kosovo and Metohija. The second thing is travel, the third thing is economic co-operation, the fourth thing is to sell them something, the fifth thing is international standards of payment change, education, science, etc. That's what we want to do with everyone in the world. To follow the EU politically, to come into a situation to confront Libya and who knows tomorrow with which state, or what Putin explained to some through oranges, but they didn't understand the oranges or what he wanted to tell them. Please, we in NATO, immediately Russian missiles towards us. Why people? Why? Why are you putting the state in an awkward situation? Otherwise, we are uninteresting with NATO and the EU. Why do you reproduce enemies? Make enemies of your friends. Of course, America could be friendly, too, but Woodrow Wilson, you know, wasn't born another Woodrow Wilson. If another Woodrow Wilson was born, our attitude would probably be different to the United States. We can't forget things. We must not forget the "Storm" either, we must not forget BiH, we must not forget in 1999, we must not forget that NATO is fighting us with traditional friends. I can accept that Mr. Tadic forgot that a few months ago he received the greatest medal of Libya. He did not accept it as "BT", but as RS president. It's a sign of attention, of respect. How would you feel if someone decorated, on our side, had become hated overnight? I guess you'd do your best to say a good word. Why do I still support Mr. Delic? You see, he was among the first to publicly say that this policy, which means to crawl, is gradually heading towards NATO, and that public opinion is preparing to push both KIM and bombing into the second plan, and the perspective and this disease that is ruled by NATO bombs. He's the one who's got it. In time, a man spoke, distracted. You know, one situation is when a civilian speaks, and another is when a retired general speaks. Yet it has much, much greater weight. He's in a delegation abroad today, and if he were here, he'd be taking part in the first point we've had today, so he'd be presenting some more very significant information on why there's no need to accept NATO's standardisation and codification. So, we have a qualified man, a career soldier, retired, but a trained politician for this issue, and that's the subject of this permanent delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Mrs. Komic, when you see Mrs. Dejanovic, tell her – Delic will not be here on 16 April, in the square. Do you know how significant that is? There will be all those who worship the EU and NATO, and they are doing so in agreement with Slavica Djukic, so that the world will go to a picture of Serbs dying to join the EU. There's no place for the poor. There's no room for these. Gilas, the Sutanovac, will come and will immediately list volunteers for NATO forces for Libya. There's no problem. I can think of some things, invite all the poor to come, to ruin you, like the one with the cherry. Here, you didn't even know how to split the cherry. And the cherries when ye divided, men were killed, neither guilty nor in debt. (President: National MP, please remember your obligations to speak of the agenda. I have a good obligation to advertise Mr. Delic, why he must be in this delegation. (President: National MP, the agenda theme is the replacement of Mr Delic. ) Well, I object to the replacement, Mrs. Komic, that's allowed. (President: I understand you, so you speak within the agenda. No, I object. Mrs. Komic, look, you have a Roman two under one, and you have a Roman one under one. That's all I'm talking about. What's under Roman one two and Roman two two, that's not what we're talking about, you must've figured out, I'm not going into someone else's athar. We defend our own, fight for our own, and, of course, we can't stand stealing. That's familiar. We remember what our mothers taught us – he can't lie, he can't steal, then he goes to jail and then the fleas come. You know, Mrs. Comic? There's fleas in prison. We're afraid of fleas and we don't want that. Next, Mr. Delic won't be here 16th because he doesn't think that's the place. As for other aspects, work opportunities and the impact of this delegation, I must draw attention to you that at some seminars, our delegation, when it comes uniquely, and there have been cases where we have uniquely performed, starting with formal reasons, not to enter the hall until the board on which it writes is moved – the Republic of Kosovo. This was first promoted by these delegations as a principle, you know, maybe even spontaneously, but later it became the principle of the work of all our delegations. Then, under UNMIK, some came. And when we decoded that that's UNMIK some of them with Kfor, so we saw that there's Helima, so the Djavad, well, this one, we better get their terrorist past out of their books, and then we tell everyone in NATO that this group that's sitting behind us are terrorists. In a mere case, they became ambassadors of a NATO-made state. Of course, they turn red like bugs and burn. This is how we fight for Serbia's national interests and for the Republic of Serbia, not by tricking voters. They vote for us, and then we say we're for NATO. The Serbian Radical Party is not for NATO. It is against this kind of EU, which is stealing from us from Kosovo, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, and the Metohija are taking from us. You as a doctor know what happened in 1999. I call on all NATO promoters to visit the families of the victims of NATO aggression. If you can convince them, only then come here to think about it, not what's going on. I have to tell you one, not a big secret. One of the great officials of your government, aware of the fact that 75% of the citizens do not want NATO, and that NATO has said – that's a done deal, we can't do anything about it. Why can't I do anything? So they have something in their rules about ethnic and other criteria, but not to tell you about it, since I'm talking to 126. He said -- we don't care, we don't do it through the referendum, we don't do it through the National Assembly, we do it through the Government. That's the story of him crawling slowly towards NATO. The vital interest of the Serb people is not NATO. What better thing would it be for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia tomorrow if we were to become members of NATO? What would be better for the citizens of Serbia tomorrow if they became members of the EU? What better way to get that signature? They wouldn't get any better, they'd get worse. Why? Because in anticipation of something spectacular and epochal, any village can go through Serbia. That's what's happening today, and that's why we have this reputed government, where you don't know who's drinking, who's paying, where you don't know what the rules are, what the rules apply, what a man pays attention to, what to turn to, what to take as his business activity, what to take as a school for his children. What security are you offering? The European Union – NATO, the European Union – NATO. So change that record a little bit, it's scratched. Get to something more modern. There are many more modern and prosperous things out of those two words. But no, that public service is starting, it's boiling, it's boiling, it's boiling, it's filling people's brains with stories about these epic things that are supposed to happen in October, if not in October, then in November, if not in November, then in December, if not in December... How long to lie, how does that folk song say? How much longer to lay this people down? I hope, since you visited Zabel yesterday, that's an acceptable condition, a good accommodation. I'll make sure it's a better place, don't worry about it. All human rights must be fully respected. It'll be painted. I hope it's high time you cut these costs to the state. All those who guard you around houses and here, one cell at a time in CZ, go there and the cost of this country will be reduced. Mrs. Comic, thank you very much. I hope that you too will vote not to pass this decision, that General Delic, in a re-try to convince Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, will be our deputy member of the delegation. Let me tell you something, I'm more comfortable going with Delic and Mark Djurisic, Oedipus and Konstantin Samofal, because I can make a deal with them. To praise them, they're good, they're good, they're good, they're good, they're good, they're good, they're good, they're good, they're good at doing good, they're sticking to the National Assembly's decision, and we're throwing out terrorists who represent an independent state of Kosovo. That's the kind of delegation we need. With this, I don't want to talk to you, with this little man from Wrabi, he'll be on corn in a few days, and maybe his father-in-law beats him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-04-12-0.u53424	21 minutes of time available to the parliamentary group has been used. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word and before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? If anyone wants to, please sign in. If not, I'll conclude a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. This concludes our work today, more than two hours earlier than the Rules of Procedure is scheduled, at 18 o'clock, and the reason is to look after the harmony of working bodies and normal work, the fact that the debate should begin in the details of the amendments. We'll start that work tomorrow, Wednesday, 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
