ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58696	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that a 91-nation MP is present. To determine the number of MPs present in the electronic voting system, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, in the electronic system, 85 MPs are present, as well as that a number of MPs are present in the hall, without identification in the electronic voting system. I remind the MPs, so there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly will work on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says in its first position, that the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues under the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. The President-in-Office, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, shall have the right to attend a session of the National Assembly in one address, up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament, who attend the sitting, and before moving to a further debate. I ask if the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to exercise their right under Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? National MP Slobodan Samardzic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58697	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, unfortunately this assembly discusses the shifts and at the expense of Kosovo. So, just about the questions we can ask, and that's where things happen every day, as you know. We, therefore, do not have continuous monitoring as the Assembly of Events in Kosovo and Metohija, but this is how we use this institute of questions to make public hearing that the MPs of the Assembly are thinking and discussing it, at least some MPs of the Assembly. You know, that last night special units of the Kosovo Police Service broke out at a crossing in Brnjik and that between Leposavic and Jarinj's access, people gathered to prevent this maneuver of the so-called "Rossa", special forces of the Kosovo Police Service. It is, in fact, a unilateral act of the government in Kosovo, such as a unilateral act and their decision to block the traffic of goods from the rest of Serbia towards Kosovo and Metohija. The decision was made last Wednesday and has been going on for six days without anything happening. The Serbian government only makes statements and does not make moves. The European Union, as a mediator in this matter, as said today by Maja Kocijancic, spokesman Catherine Ashton, is still studying the Kosovo government's decision to ban the traffic of goods. So he's been studying for six days and doing nothing. At the very least, these violate the provisions of a set of agreements, for this part of Europe on the freedom of movement of the factors of production, in this case of goods. Therefore, everything is going very slowly, and the Serbian government is acting reactively. As far as I know, this event, as far as Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, is their spontaneous response. But I also know that it has been said for two days among the people of northern Kosovo, that a special unit of Kosovo police will break out at these two crossings and try to block them and therefore take control of these crossings. I'm saying, this government seems reactive. She has scheduled a notification service in northern Kosovo, has scheduled self-defense and civil protection and people have had to go out and prevent spontaneous action, carrying out trucks and getting out, moving, so the Rosa unit towards Jarinj. So between Leposavic and Jarinj, there is one buffer zone, made by Serbs in northern Kosovo. The situation is completely uncertain, even though the Serbian government's representatives are down there and are trying to make some compromise. However, it seems that all of these are not only reactive, but also weak moves that cannot lead to success, as the third factor in this whole thing is not responding. Simply, they are still studying what their spokesman says about the Kosovo government's decision, which seems to me to be quite a clear message to the Serbian government on the issue. So the basic question and that is what I want to ask is -- what is the Serbian government going to take over here. We know that a round of talks between Belgrade and Pristina has been postponed for the beginning of September, where Kosovo's customs stamps should also be decided. So some kind of declaration of goods that passes from Kosovo to Serbia. However, is it possible for the Serbian government to remain passive in this state of affairs. So, in the state of things that defacto was changed compared to the time when the talks began. Can the Serbian government and wants to make a move in the meantime that will be an adequate response to these unilateral moves by the Kosovo government? Will he finally threaten not to go out on this round of negotiations in September, which seems to me to be the best act until the situation returns to the status quo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58698	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58699	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request a notice from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance on a case of ignoring the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. Unfortunately, there are several such cases of ignoring the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. Now, I do not want to ask a question about the lack of funding for the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, thanks to the move of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, some construction firms from the Vojvodina territory are on the bankruptcy line, and the entire province can be in a position to be on the verge of bankruptcy. I will ask that question when Mr Cvetkovic comes to the Assembly and there will be opportunities for debate on the issue and the confrontation of arguments. The issue and the case of ignoring the citizens of the AP Vojvodina in respect of which I wish to request a notice concerns the unpaid severance of educational workers from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, who retired in 2010 or 2011. I find it scandalous that educational workers from the territory of the AP Vojvodina have been waiting for more than a year and a half for their severances, and that the same severances have been paid, as it should be in accordance with the law, for all other educational workers living in other areas of the Republic of Serbia. The Law laying down the powers of the AP Vojvodina and the new Law establishing the basics of the education and training system in September 2009 clearly regulates the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to provide funds for the payment of severance payments on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. Article 157, paragraph 4 of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System makes it clear – that the Republic of Serbia's budget provides funds for salaries, fees, allowances for primary and secondary school staff, social contributions and severance fees. In 2009, it was agreed that the province's secretariat for education and during 2010 would continue to receive the requirements of primary and secondary schools for the payment of severance payments, and that budgets would be transferred to the province's budget at the expense and request of the secretariats. The Regional Secretariat for Education sent several memos to the Ministry of Education during 2010, but unfortunately, educational workers with the AP Vojvodina have not received any severance until today. I would also like to stress that responsibility does not lie with the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Zarko Obradovic. Minister Obradovic more addressed the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia, but the funds were not available. That's why I ask the finance minister, what is the prime minister's situation, why are these funds not available? Why does the Government of the Republic of Serbia put educational workers in an unequal position from the territory of the AP Vojvodina? It's not about small funds. It's about about 100,000 dinars per educator. It's big money for citizens, it's big money for educators, but it's not big money if we're looking at it from the point of view of the Republic budget. By the end of May of the current year, 777 educational workers were retired from the territory of the AP Vojvodina. So, I'm talking about 2010, 2011, and these funds are up to 149 million dinars. So I'm looking for an explanation and a notice on why these funds haven't been made available? Why do people in AP Vojvodina's territory put themselves in an unequal position and how these people, who have been waiting for money for a year and a half, can expect payment to their current accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58700	The word has the People's MP Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58701	Dear President, I would like to ask Mr. Minister of Education Zarko Obradovic and Mr. Minister of Health Zoran Stankovic one question, and this is whether they seem to meet and discuss the registration policy of health personnel in this country. If it's to trust statistical data, that 12,000 health workers are unemployed, I ask the question – who are we schooling for? If there are eight thousand medium medical staff and about four thousand doctors with high professional training, they are now on the bureaus, whether we are schooling for Slovenia or for Europe or for our country. I think there's space and equipment in many parts, so they can get a job, so here, I suggest that for the next school year these two ministers sit down with their associates to discuss this topic, about a new entry policy for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58702	The word has been made by MP Nikola Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58703	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a little over two months ago, about, from this place or this one in front of me, I asked the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister or vice versa, who in this country could order the budget to return other people's money that he holds without any basis, and reacting to the answer of the Ministry of Education. I see, the Ministry of Education re-emerges, which the money holds in the 321311 classification, from which the position cannot be restored. Look, coincidences, it's about the company, i.e. I am stressing the Vojvodina Transport Company from Vrbasa, and these $1,575,000 for three full years are standing in a position they cannot return from. I have tried by mouth twice to remind the finance minister, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic or vice versa, who is in charge in this country, who is powerful, who is the owner, to order foreign money from the budget to be returned to the owner. The only answer I've got is underestimation, indulging and ignoring. So, total silence. Then I had to ask Mr. Radoslav Sretenovic, the same question, is it possible that he could not re-write or order a copy or order the money to be returned to the company "Vrobe's Traffic" from Vrbasa. I got the same answer. I cannot reconcile with the underestimating and prejudicial and ingot relations of the competent, which are mandatory, without special warnings, special repetitions, special reminders that such a simple, simple and simple thing solves or at least to answer to a company called "Vojvoda's Traffic" that money will not be returned, so that people know that they take further steps in lawsuits or something like that. The question is also that even when the money is returned in one way or another, who will be responsible for the interest that the state of Serbia, all its citizens, all of you MPs, will be obliged to pay, which will be more than the principal in this particular case? Maybe that's a question for Mr. Hansel Dacic and his portfolio. I don't mean to be boring, but if a simple question like this doesn't deserve at least an answer and not a realisation, then I wonder what we're going to do with more serious questions that, as far as I hear from my fellow MPs, have no answer or are the answers in the style of a missing topic. My second question is, if the authorities are underestimating me, come on well, I'm only one, but Mr. Grouchy, why are you underestimating the bridge at Beska? As far as I can see, every day passing and passing through it, that bridge will be unlit. So, the only bridge in Europe, such an impressive structure will be in the dark. I myself and the passengers in my car in which we drive are baptized day and night - is it possible that the bridge over the Danube near Beška on Corridor 10 will not be lit? I look like Don Quixote myself, and the bridge and other people's money in the budget of the windmills. I don't want this to be true and I don't like to look like Don Quixote, so I ask the prime minister or the finance minister, or vice versa, to agree with Mr. Radoslav Sretenovic, the president of the DRI, to take steps to return the money, and Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic to take steps to light up the bridge at Beska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58704	Thank you. National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58705	Ladies and gentlemen, it's enough to hear these questions from the ruling opposition and to have a man wonder what kind of state we live in, what kind of government, what kind of coalition is that, that God saves you? But let's go back to what's more important and these are tonight's events related to the invasion of the border crossings towards Serbia, i.e. the administrative border towards Serbia. This is the slow end of a policy that started in 2008, a policy that primarily involved violence, violence against institutions where the law and the Constitution should be respected. In this assembly in 2008, 108 MPs sent a request for a session of the Republika Srpska Assembly, which was to be held and to set out the frameworks for Serbia's conduct when it comes to KIM. Let me remind you, that session was supposed to be held before EULEX was allowed to be stationed at KIM. It's the beginning of the end related to KIM. You have allowed a mission that is absolutely in line with Ahtisaari's plan to form an independent state of Kosovo. This mission essentially has been working for three full years to form the institutions of the state of Kosovo. You're on your way... You will hear, there is a time when elections will come and the people will answer you for all that you have done. [[Employees are getting out of place: We can't hear you.]] You set out to solve the issue allegedly through the International Court of Justice in The Hague, and that's where you suffered a disaster. After that, you are also in the UN to propose a resolution, although you had strong guarantees from both Russia and other countries that they would support this resolution, you accepted a resolution written by the EU, which essentially legalised everything that was happening at KIM by then. Where did you come from? Here, you came here to slowly round the state of Kosovo by becoming a state border from the administrative borders. That's what you've made possible, and you've come to negotiations allegedly on technical issues. How far did you get? You've reached the takeover of administrative crossings. In doing so, some convince us that Boris Tadic contacted both KFOR and the EU, who not all of them, and Police Minister Rexhepi claims that KFOR has been informed of all this tonight, that he knows because the action was not secret at all, it has been coming for a long time. Is there anyone normal who can believe that the strippers would take one single step without having a silently green light from KFOR, from UNMIK? UNMIK doesn't have a living soul out there. Where's your UNMIK now? What did you claim UNMIK would do and what UNMIK is for? What isn't KFOR responding now? Let's ask yourself a simple question – what would happen in the opposite situation, if Serbs started to violently do something that would come out of some frameworks that were established? At that moment, a force would be used, an inappropriate force, and they wouldn't hesitate for one second. Now they're arguing slowly, waiting to see how the situation will take place. And what are we doing? What's Serbia doing? What will Serbia do? Go outside and tell the citizens what Serbia will do. Why isn't the session of the Serbian Parliament scheduled to discuss it? Why? Because you can't, because the bosses in Washington and Brussels told you what to do. Why don't you ask for a Security Council session? Why doesn't it go back to the frames of Resolution 1244? Why don't you insist on that? Where are your friends you promised would do anything to make things better and get rid of them? Now, take care of it. Do they need Serbia to die on KIM again? You keep your mouth shut. What do we need an army for? What do we need the police for? What will Serbia do? Give us an answer. Schedule a session of the Republika Srpska Assembly, let Boris Tadic come here to the Serbian Parliament and Serbian MPs and citizens to tell them what he intends to do when it comes to KIM. Don't deceive and lie to us anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58706	I ask the Members of Parliament to use their right under Article 286 in accordance with the provisions of Article 286 and to raise the question clearly, in order to allow the right of Article 286(2) to indeed be achieved. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Here, Novakovic asked clear questions. Is that right, Mr. Novakovic? ) I ask MP Dragan Todorovic not to throw away and ask MP Dragan Todorovic not to address the other participants directly. I'm also asking People's MP Suleiman Spahu not to throw it away. It is my duty to remind you when breaking the Rules of Procedure prevent the right of Article 286. It is also my obligation that, taking care of the order of the session, I remind all Members of the people that all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly apply equally to all the MPs and that only in collaboration with all of us together can we really lead the debate. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58707	The President-in-Office, since the previous speaker did not, in fact, ask the question, I want to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia, because I think it is important that the citizens of Serbia know that by respecting the Constitution, resolutions and declarations brought by this assembly, the government of the Republic of Serbia is taking all measures to preserve, above all, peace in order to preserve the security of the citizens of KIM and throughout Serbia and to solve problems that do not, in fact, slow down the truth, not happen there. So, I think it is important that the Serbian government responds to the MPs and clears up a picture of what it is doing to solve these problems, so that there is no wrong impression that things are happening without the government and the institutions of this country taking all that is in their jurisdiction to solve these problems. Of course, it is simple to accuse of several decades of failings of what may have been conditionally called a policy towards KIM, and also of the failures of a policy led by those who today accuse that this policy does not produce good results and say that everything that is now happening overnight has happened in the last two or three years, and that this is not the result of a single policy that has been led and which has been disastrous in some times in Serbia's interests, that this policy today is a policy that is trying to eliminate the enormous damage that has been done to these previous policies, that it is trying to solve the problem through peaceful means not by risking any more life and not by trying to use war calls and calls to use military and police, has washed itself, disrupting not only the security of citizens outside the KIM territory, but also security in the entire region. Such politics and its consequences we have had the opportunity to see and the consequences can be measured by hundreds of thousands of victims, displaced, disillusioned people who in one day, one night, or in a few unfortunate months lost everything they had acquired generations before them. So, once again, I want to say that it is good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia clearly knows what it is doing and what its institutions are doing. Of course, it is very important for us to take care of everything we do, to preserve peace, to preserve security, and to preserve every single life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58708	National MP Slobodan Samardzic is registered in the electronic system. While the session is under way under Article 286(2), no one has the right to reply and no MP has the right to indicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is clear for article 286 on Tuesdays and Thursdays, as well as for sessions on parliamentary issues last Thursday in the month and session with the topic currently scheduled by the president of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, at the request of a single constituency group. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group report to use their right under Article 286(2)? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: MP Srdjan Spasojevic, MP Aleksandra Jankovic, MP Mladen Grujic and MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, in addition to the representative of the motion of Milutin Mrkonjic, the Minister of Infrastructure and Energy, invited the sittings to attend: Dusan Mratic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy; Miodrag Miljković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy; Milos Banjac, Assistant Minister for Infrastructure and Energy; Aleksandra Potparević, Director of Civil Aviation; Vanja Škobić, from the Agency for Flight Control; Neda Mijatović-Bojanović, Head of the Department for Legal and Economic Relations in the Energy and Energy Sector of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy; Olga Antić-Michinović, Head of the Group for Technical and Technology Affairs in the Oil and Energy and Infrastructure of the Ministry of Energy and Energy, the Ministry of the Ministry of Energy and Energy of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Energy and Energy. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the first item of the agenda - THE PROPOSAL OF THE ENERGETICS BEFORE I OPEN THE SEARCH IN THE SPECIFICS, on the basis of Article 90. and Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform the Members of Parliament that we will be working after 18.00 hours today, and until the end of the search in particular, that is to say, the amendments to the draft energy law. Once we have completed the search in detail on this agenda point, we will complete work for today and the next draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Traffic Act, if at reasonable time, it is possible that we are also doing this search in particular today, and the search in the details of the amendment to the rest of the agenda will continue tomorrow. If it doesn't happen during the afternoon session, we'll give you further notice. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knažević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogeović, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Dragan Šormaz, Stevica Spajić, Pavel Marčok, Arsen Đurić, Milica Vojšavić, Miljavić, Milan Lapčević, Miloš Aligrudić, Kenan Hajdarević, Siniš Šamić, Šamić, Zlata Šamić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Miroslav Marković, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Miljavić, Mil, Radjavić, Radjavić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Žiljan, Žiljnić, Radić, Zaž. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Another announcement: On the basis of Article 90 and on the basis of the notice delivered by RTS to the Secretary of Parliament Mr. Veljak Odalovic, this notice informs the Secretary-General and the MPs-general that on Tuesday, July 26th, Wednesday, July 27th and Thursday 28th of July 2011, in the period from 12:00 to 14.00 hours of transmission of the National Assembly session will be interrupted occasionally during the direct transmission of the meeting at the 2nd RTS programme due to short participation in the World Swimming Championship transfer, at the time when our competitors perform, that there will be no misunderstanding whether or not there will be a transfer after these short inclusions. I would also like to inform you that Minister Milutin Mrkonjic is currently in talks, along with Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, with road representatives and that is why he is not in the hall. He'll join us in 15 minutes. On behalf of section 2 above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted Serbia. Does anyone want a word? National MP Mico Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58709	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the section above Article 2 of the Energy Act bears the title, and later the text goes like this and looks like this: "Separate terms used in this law have the following meaning." It doesn't say "single terms" anywhere, it says "single expressions". Therefore, the SNS, relating to the name of Section 2 above Article 2. The bill on energy asked for the word "speaks" to be replaced by the words "meaning expression". One technical amendment, according to how you wrote it, was not accepted, and what to say then about amendments that try to fundamentally amend some of the provisions of the law, or to improve it in quality. We have responded to the same Article 2, so we are in Article 2. The proposal, in point 26., which reads: "The draft law requires a qualified buyer of electricity or natural gas, who has the right to a free choice of suppliers" to amend the point 26, which should read – a qualified buyer of electricity, heat or natural gas, who has the right to a free choice of suppliers. The SNS believes that it is necessary to predict the status of a qualified energy buyer, not just for electricity or natural gas, because in providing customers with heat energy, what can this contribute to in this case? To contribute to a safer supply of heat and free choice of suppliers, to eliminate monopoly in this area of heat energy, i.e. to provide heat from heat from heat in local self-government, because we have options for choice and other suppliers, i.e. heat distributors. Then, increasing the use of renewable energy sources and other heat sources. Also, point 31 of the same law proposal, which speaks of the license, what is that license? The licence is an act laying down the fulfilment of the conditions laid down by the law for the performance of energy activities prescribed by this law. We asked for the replacement of the word "licence" in this part and in the text throughout, to use the word "licence" instead of the word "licence", both in this article and in the whole text of the draft energy law. I think it is necessary, given how the laws arrive at the Republic Assembly, that the Republic Secretariat of the Legislatives, before the laws arrive in the procedure in this esteemed Parliament, to give its opinion on the content and implement the language correction of the texts. If the word "registration" that has been used for the past 100 years is related to obtaining confirmations to perform certain actions and is a Serbian word, why should the word "licence" be used? The word "licence" in English can be used as a verb and as a noun. Since people whose native language is English would not be able to interpret the word "licence" in this and in the other laws in which it is used, it is appropriate that the Republic Secretariat reacts here and I think there was no reason for any moment to change in this section of Article 2. Do not accept the amendments mentioned. When we speak in the principle debate when it comes to all laws, then Minister Mrkonjic tells everyone extensively and extensively that he will accept the amendments. We have a situation that this is another law which, like the mass of the law in this and earlier period, came to the Assembly on Saturday and the MPs were only two days left to prepare such a serious law, because Saturday and Sunday, all known, is an unworkable day in the Republic of Serbia and for us MPs. Given the situation that we have submitted such a large number of amendments, and all parliamentary groups, to the Energy Act, then the adoption of some amendments in terms of the proposal to Articles 7, 8 and 50. The energy law, which we will discuss when it comes to this, also makes sense to accept the technical correction of this amendment that we have submitted. That's your opinion. What's your opinion, so is our state of energy, and we've talked about it all these days. You showed us the situation in energy yesterday by selecting members of the Energy Agency and breaking the law. That's what we'll talk about when we talk about the Energy Agency in the members of this bill. Once again, I see no reason why Article 2 or amendments to Article 2 are not accepted, because they mean the technical and linguistic correction of the bill. I say once again, people whose mother tongue is English do not have the opportunity to understand the essence of the word "licence" in this law and in other laws as you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58710	It was used three minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I am taking the opportunity to remind the National Assembly who are all authorised representatives, except for MP Mica Rogovic, who is the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia, MP Goran Mihajlovic, the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Milan Lapcevic, the authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group, MP Djordje Milicevic, the authorised representative of the SPS-JS group, MP Bojan Djuric, the authorised representative of the LDP group and MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, the authorised representative of the PUPS parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. National MP Milovan Radovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3, paragraph 1. The bill, which reads: "The energy policy of the Republic of Serbia covers the measures and activities undertaken to achieve the long-term objectives." The amendment that I submitted to this position of the bill envisions adding "economic, economic and energy objectives" after "the implementation of the long term". The amendment is proposed for legal and technical reasons and corrections. The government didn't accept the amendment. Energy policy and strategy, as well as energy development planning, should also be based on the experience and examples of individual European countries and the United States in a positive way. Also, the energy policy implemented by the government of the Republic of Serbia is seen negatively also for some Eastern European countries, in the case of Romania and Bulgaria. In time, your dear EU has adopted directives aimed at breaking, reconstructing and dispersing existing single national companies. This was accepted by EU countries such as Spain, France, Germany, the Netherlands, the UK, but this is the way the United States is headed. Shortly after that, when they set out to privatise, break-up and disperse their unique national enterprises, the countries mentioned saw mistakes. Also, the EU has realised that this is the wrong way to reconstruct electricity and energy systems in Europe and the world, and has then adopted a directive in the EU that revised the original directives on breaking, separating and dispersing electricity systems. In this regard, Spain, France, Germany, the Netherlands and the UK have ceased to privatise their businesses, to separate and operate in that direction. The professional service has shown that some EU countries have even invested as much as $100 billion in order to establish a single company that will function as they need and how it works after moving in the wrong direction, the wrong way, where they have seen damage to their systems. I remind you, and you know it better than I do, gentlemen of the government, that the UK has invested a billion pounds of British Electric donations, so that British Electric doesn't go bankrupt and does a great thing for its company. Why am I telling you this? If they were able to do so, it was mentioned by an international union organisation in the field of energy in Southeast Europe because we have not yet begun the reconstruction of the electro-economic system. On the case of these countries, especially on a negative case by Eastern European countries, such as Romania and Bulgaria, they went into reconstruction of their entire system. What did they get? They have now received that foreign companies are the owners of their electric and commercial systems, the enormously high price of electricity, the layoff of tens of thousands of workers. Profit is exported from Romania and Bulgaria and coal mines are being closed. This is what awaits us if we continue this way through the energy policy and the strategy that you provided for in the Energy Law proposal. So, a single national enterprise, such as these countries, other than Romania and Bulgaria, is needed to survive and to create a market in this area by introducing privatisation, both in the area of production, both in the field of transmission and distribution of electricity, to compete with each other which leads to the downturning of electricity prices and thus is better for consumers. Of course, if we don't, then we'll experience the fate of Romania and Bulgaria. You know this well, but at the same time, I know that the EU is putting pressure on you in power, not because it is a good path, but because it is a good direction, but because of selling you technology for both renewable electricity sources and biological power sources and everything else in the energy system that awaits us in the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen of the government, I particularly resent you for allowing the Serbian Assembly to be submitted in one part of the proposal for a decision to amend the president and members of the Energy Agency Council. Mrs. Comic, as one of the vice presidents of the Serbian Parliament and one of the chairmans of the session, I draw attention to the fact that, in the case of adoption of this decision, it is in one part contrary to the Energy Act which is still in force, the concrete position of the 2nd member of the 19th law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58712	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milan M. Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58713	I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(1) point 4). This amendment sets out more precisely the objectives of energy policy, which Article 3 is working on. Energy is the driving force of social and economic development. The primary forms of energy on our planet Earth are limited, so renewable energy sources are extremely important and significant. These are: water streams, wind, solar energy, biomass, biothermal energy and others. The promotion of renewable energy in the EU has high priority and concrete requirements. The target share of electricity production from renewable energy sources is to reach 20% and above. In Serbia, we have both resources and knowledge to assess the importance of renewable energy sources independently of the EU. Serbia has a hydroenergy potential worth the attention but the realization of its exploitation depends on the security of conditions, which are economic, economic and financial. Small hydropower plants, which are up to 10 megawatts, belong to the category of privileged manufacturers, although this law shows that power plants are being promoted up to 30 megawatts, which is unacceptable. The mini power plants have advantages and disadvantages. What are the advantages of large hydropower plants? There's no big swimming, or accumulation. They can provide irrigation and water supply. Exploitation is carried out with small material investments. It's a long working life. Weaknesses. High investment costs after an installed kilowatt. It's bigger than a hydropower plant or a thermal power plant and it's between $1,000 and $5,000. At the thermal power plant, it's up to 1,000, and at the hydropower plants, these larger power plants, that's even less. This range in general comes from a different position of small hydropower plants. There are high research costs, and exploitation depends on existing resources. Today in Serbia, about 40 mini power plants with a power of about 500 megawatts operate. Using the total energy potential of the mini power plant, it is possible to produce about 5% of the total electricity produced in Serbia or about 15% of the electricity produced in large hydropower plants. The energy potential of the water streams and the location for the construction of small hydropower plants has been determined by a document from a long time back in 1977, and it is a cadastre of Serbia's mini power plant. It was done by renowned companies "Energoproject", "Hydroengineering" and Institute "Jaroslav Černi". The cadastre contains about 850 locations suitable for building a mini power plant, more than 100 kilowatts, and those smaller are not even covered by this disaster. The data is given exactly by municipalities. Examples work, the Ivanic municipality has 64 locations, Prepolje 47, Kralje 40, Nova Varoš 21, Bajina Garden 19, Arile 6 etc. I'll continue with the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58714	It was used a minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. On the basis of Article 90, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Connections of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MP Velimir Ilic, called the 37th session of the Transport and Connections Committee, for today, July 26th, 2011, starting at 12:00 p.m., to be held in Hall I on the first floor. I ask the members of the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Members of the Parliaments concerned to receive this notice for knowledge. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58715	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Energy Sector, it seems to me that no bill of law could better paint cracks and ruins in society like the Energy Act did. Of course, it's not all about the burden and on the soul of you who work at the Ministry of Energy earlier, and now the Energy Sector, it's simply a picture and reflection of the situation in our society in general. We have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on energy relating to energy policy objectives, in particular point 6 of point 1) where the Predicate of the Law – Creating conditions for the use of new energy sources. I suggested, on behalf of the SRS, that, in this point 6 position, "the creature" be added to the words "economic economic and financial conditions". Of course, the government had no reason to accept this. This would provide answers to issues that are now crucial and burdening efficiency, especially when it comes to renewable energy sources. If this had been accepted and in any subsequent law, then it would have been much easier for you, sir, to explain more than 5,000 people in Prijepolje who have collected signatures and opposed the construction of a mini power plant on Lima. Because it only says here: "creation of conditions", so very often those who are surrounded by investors mini power plants think they're the only ones who will have certain effects. They forget that construction operations will have work to do, especially later, which will have a positive impact on the country's economic stability. I'm saying, it'd be a lot easier to give you an answer, not getting into it if someone felt it and thought that they needed to buy out that property that is now of multiple value than before it was known to build that hydropower plant. I don't want to spread the story, it doesn't allow time, but one of the pioneers of the construction of the mini power plant Milos Djordzic, who built it, seems to me, the first in western Serbia to have a mini power plant, where the construction began in 1985, so it took a long time for him to have some financial effects. Finally, when he was able to complete all of this and get permission to join the power system of the surpluses that exist, for 37 months he has not been able to collect his claim, where he appears both as a buyer and as a supplier at the EPS. That what we propose is built into this law, or if you accept it, will be much easier for you to answer some questions, practical and lifelike. This is a seemingly technical question, but it will allow you to solve some of the problems that will arise in practice. Mrs Hadzi-Babić, if you can, as a future member of the Agency's Council, influence this amendment to be accepted, not because of the MPs of the SRS, but because of those to be applied to, then do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58716	One minute and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58717	This amendment, which I have submitted, refers to Article 3(1), point 8. Proposal for a law on energy. I would remind you that the objectives of energy policy are set out in Article 3. When you talk about the objectives of this policy, you do it in a wide range, between safe, reliable and quality supply of electricity to citizens through the creation of conditions for the production of electricity from renewable sources to the protection of electricity customers. Among them is the creation of conditions for investing in energy. So, it's exactly the goal that I've been trying to build up with my amendment. The fact that the protection of consumers of electricity is put in the last place can and does not necessarily mean anything. When it comes to the protection of customers and electricity, it may not mean anything at all, which in the last place is foreseen among the objectives that you do not daily send messages to citizens as much as you take care of them, not only as customers of electricity, but also at all. The last message to be sent to citizens in this area is what happened to Uskokovic and the trial of this man who, as you remember, is 35 apartments, bars, etc. obtained one illegal business, abuse of official office and counterfeiting of official documents and was sentenced to nine years, in order to be convicted by the Supreme Court only three years ago. He got 300 percent lower sentence. This is the concern that you are, among other things, predicting here and in the goals of energy policy. However, given what is happening in the area of energy itself, this does not seem to be a case that deserves your attention. I asked my amendment to create better conditions for investment, at point 8, by creating economic and financial conditions. I believe that such an upgrade of this point 8 would make it easier for you to do the same as someone who deals with this area as someone who deals with this area of energy. But when basically our courts protect thieves, what kind of investment can we talk about here? It is clear why this amendment, as well as the previous SRS, has not been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58718	A minute and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group have been used. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) Radica Jocic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58719	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the Energy Law proposal, which reads: "In Article 4(2), point 1), point-stitched is replaced by a comma and words are added: "as well as measures for the protection of consumers of energy and energy". In the explanation of the SRS parliamentary group, the following said: The strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia is one of the key documents for the implementation of energy policy and the realisation of long-term objectives in this area. Energy and energy functions are the last link in the market chain of participants in which each has its right and obligations. It is therefore necessary for them to be covered by this act, in order to be protected from any adverse consequences that might be caused by any state authority or any other participant involved in the transport of energy and energy. The government has not accepted the amendment for legal and technical reasons, as explained. I would point out that in Chapter 2. The draft energy law, which refers to energy policy and energy development planning, is among the energy policy objectives, under number 9, and the protection of energy and energy customers, so I think it was necessary that, by accepting this amendment of the SRS parliamentary groups, the protection of consumers of energy and energy products should also be potentiated in the part of the strategy to which Article 4 applies and which I do not know whose failure is left out. Also, in the light of the proposal for a law on energy given by the Government, the protection of the interests of producers and customers is among the first ones listed as the problem that this law should be addressed, which only indicates that this amendment should have been accepted and thus given meaning to this area, which would have been potentiated in the part of the strategy to which Article 4. It is extremely important that the area of protection, especially for customers and energy and energy producers, be governed specifically and precisely by the law, so that the law does not leave ambiguity and possibilities for abuse. It is important that all customers, regardless of whether they spend 100, 500 or 5,000 kilowatts of electricity, are clearly seen and protected in law and only if they are treated equally will there be no problem on the ground. I believe that this amendment should be reconsidered and accepted, so that the scope of the protection of energy and energy customers is not unfairly left out of the area of the strategy referred to in Article 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58720	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58721	We are in a section dealing with the energy policy strategy and energy development planning, in Article 4, which speaks about what strategies are defined and determined. We have suggested that points 7 and 8 be added after point 6 and another new position should be inserted into this article, and would remain at the new point we have proposed, the first – criteria for determining the amount of compensation paid by energy entities. We feel like we're living in another time. The agency makes the criteria, the Agency collects, means as in that time about 300 years ago -- the cadium sues you, the cadium sues you, it's amazing that someone can bring criteria, set prices and directly affect this energy sector, and as it affects the energy sector, it also affects all other sectors, because it is, fortunately, still the strongest in the economic sector, simply because the economy and does not exist in the Republic of Serbia. This can't be done even because of the end consumers, because setting the criteria has to achieve a price mode that must be known during the strategy period because of consumers, end consumers, and because of investors who, unfortunately, are in this area and that there is no other area on the Serbian stage is practically the appearance of the escape of investors. Therefore, because of the element of investment planning and investment and investment development and due to end-users, this position, i.e. this point, should be included in the conditions in which the strategy is established, you did not accept it. Then we looked for specific measures for development, a special point, these are specific measures for the development of energy efficiency by reducing non-technical loss of electricity. It is known that in this area approximately the value of a hydropower plant or between 400m and 500m euros a year is lost and imminent, i.e. it was reasonable to accept the amendment by inserting point 8. in paragraph 1 and a special position that we asked units of local self-government to bring their development programmes into the energy sector, and normally, in relation to the strategy and to the strategy of achieving Serbia's energy development strategy, because especially in the area of thermal energy self-government and public enterprises are so present, and to the aspects of the environment, not only regional, but also inter-state local self-government, must be an important sector and take active part in the creation of a strategy, i.e. on the basis of the strategy, they must work their own planning documents and provide for annual and long-term measures in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58722	One minute was used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Radisa Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(3). Proposal for a law on energy. The aim of this amendment is to bring the energy development strategy in the Republic of Serbia for a period of ten years, not 15 or more, as the proposer predicted. There are many reasons for accepting this amendment, of which I will list, for the sake of time, just some. The government, if, by any chance, remains the original version of this position, would even have the legal right to extend the strategy period for more than 15 years, perhaps 20, 25, because in this position 3 is stated, quote – at least 15 years, means more. So far, we have had opportunities to adopt many laws that envisioned national strategies for many areas in society, education, defence, agriculture, environmental protection, forestry, etc. and there was no mention of this period of 15 or more years. However, you seem to have a particular reason for this, but you probably know that energy is a branch of the economy that is closely linked to numerous factors in society, both economically and politically, which are very fast and often changing. First of all, no one can provide for energy needs due to new needs and demands for consumers, due to new prices on the market, different energy sources. This way you can maintain it in some status quo for 15 years or more. Secondly, the exploitation of natural resources generated by energy can also experience drastic changes in technology improvements, especially when many energy sources are at stake. As a third, already now, if you start or if you want to apply, say, environmental laws, which you've brought to the reputation of the European Union, which, unfortunately today is also taking away Kosovo and Metohija, you'd have to close all of our thermoelectric power plants because of the enormous mission of harmful gases. You will not, of course, but what if you are forced from the European Union to obey the laws? Then you, slightly speaking, can take a picture with the strategy. Why am I telling you this? You were forced by the European Union to do much worse, such as EULEX, The Hague, the destruction of armies, the gay parade, etc., etc. For the fourth reason, I cite the political situation in the environment and the state policy of today's regime in Serbia. The fact is that today's government is leading, I would say, a devious policy towards Russia, our greatest ally and friend in the world. Often, the policy is contrary to Russia's interests, and in line with the European Union's, US and NATO's commitments, which are otherwise at Serbia's expense. The next day, you can provoke Russia to turn the tap nicely for oil and gas, and then you can take a picture again with a strategy, which is 15 years and more. Also, it is well-known who is disturbed by the Russian gas and gas pipeline in Serbia and who is wishing for the American "Nubuko". There are other reasons to contribute to this amendment, but because of the time available to the parliamentary group, I cannot explain them. In the end, it would be really useful and practical to respect this amendment and to bring the strategy to a period of ten years, instead of 15 and more, as you imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58724	It's been used for two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Milovanovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in favour of the justification of the amendments submitted by fellow Serbian Radical Party MP Radisa Ilic, I would like to say that the strategy for developing the energy of the Republic of Serbia, which is unfortunately now missed, is one of the key elements for implementing energy policy and implementing long-term goals in this area. Circumstances change very quickly, which is why time limits need to be adjusted to the new situation. Let me give you an example, gentlemen of the government, of the legislative activity in this area. In the 2004 Energy Act, you did not predict coal or oil shale as energy in the energy-related work. Despite our efforts in the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to do so and to submit amendments to include coal production in energy, you did not do so. Here, already in the draft law on the agenda today, you saw in Article 2 paragraph 1 point 11 as energy and coal and oil shale, which is very good, which is positive. Circumstances, then, changed faster than anyone might have predicted and planned. It's your energy policy and strategy, and where you've estimated that's how it's supposed to be. Personally, my opinion is that it's positive and that it's okay. You took less than 15 years for that strategic change. There is also an amendment to reduce the time of 15 years for a strategy that will be valid for 10 years. I asked a parliamentary question on June 30th about coal, oil shale in the Alexine coal mine. The government, specifically the Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning and Mining, delivered an answer to me very quickly on 11 June. They listed the justification and quantity, the size of that 2,100,000 oil shale site only in the Alexine swimming pool and approximately 27 million tons of geological reserve of high-quality coal in the Alexine mine. It has been stated that oil shale is interested in two companies from Estonia, one of which is national, state-owned. Resavica, a cave exploitation company, has already joined the implementation of the project in researching beds in Dubrava, both coal and oil shale. It is also mentioned, I am telling you, for all MPs and for the sake of the public, that even NIS is interested in oil shale at the Alexine Basen, whose beds are in the reserve of approximately two billion and 100 million tonnes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58726	It was used three minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic. National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58727	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm very sorry there's no minister, because this is how it turns out that we're talking in vain. On Article 5 concerning the strategy programme, we submitted the amendment because we think it's logical. In Article 4, the draft law states: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Government for a period of at least 15 years, brings the Strategy to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." Let's take 15 years to make it an optimal time, but I really think it should be less, but it should be some optimal time for which to bring the strategy. Since it's a plan document that needs to have some length so we can really plan something. Now in Article 5(2), it says: "The programme brings the government for a period of up to six years on a proposal from the ministry responsible for energy affairs, in the further text of the ministry." What is determined by the programme: conditions, modes, dynamics and measures to achieve the strategy. If we say that the strategy is brought in in 15 years, then it's quite logical that this program is brought in for a period of five years. Because then you can follow the application strategy, you can change the conditions that are given by the program which is logic. What you replied to me shows actually your intention which is very strange. You say to me this way: "Amendment is not accepted for reasons of consent to Article 5. The draft energy law brings a strategy programme to a period of up to six years." This means that it can cover a shorter period, such as a period of up to five years or a period of three years, in agreement with the needs and situations. It's being updated at least every other year. You answer to me, exactly what I change. Now you're explaining to me what this is about, which is why you say it should be five years. That's exactly what I'm changing, but what you're still saying and what's very interesting is that the government's conclusion in April 2010 is that a new strategy should be done which will cover the projection by 2030 and which is a longer period than 15 years. Really, I think you're doing a little bit more of an exaggeration. First, 15 years is quite a deadline. What makes you want to arrange this area for a longer period than 15 years, how long do you give the law? Because, and later on, I'm going to talk about it, I was talking about in principle, in fact, this strategy is going to do a lot of damage to Serbia's energy system. I will slowly be laden, since I have recognized the gentleman sitting there, and the minister has no, talking about what damage he personally and the ministry he represents, I assume he is now working in this new ministry that was made by the Ministry of Infrastructure, for roads, traffic and now energy, so he is applying and selling Serbia's energy resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58728	One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58729	It is suggested that the programme be adopted by the Government for a period of six years on a proposal from the Ministry of Energy Affairs, and the SNS thinks that, as in Article 4, as my previous colleague spoke of, the programme should be adopted by the National Assembly for a period of six years on a proposal from the Government within 60 days of the adoption of the strategy. We are the players of the situation that when this happens, or from a variety of areas where the programme brings the Government on a proposal from the RES, that we have a situation where this programme is either delayed or delayed as it was related to the earlier strategy, the situation where the strategy has been adopted, and how important this area is, then the programme resulting from the strategy that has to be an act is a legal act that literally follows immediately after the adoption of the strategy. So the difference between the two strategies, the two adoptions of the strategy, the adoption of the energy programme was two years. This is the situation where the Government brings programmes on a proposal from the ministries and for this reason, and because of the more realistic situation in the Assembly, we propose that the programme brings the National Assembly the same strategy and that the objectives of the strategy and the programme objectives of the development of the strategy are easier to realise in practice. Then on Article 5, we asked the Ministry to follow the implementation of the programme and, if necessary, propose to bring it into line with the real needs of at least every other year. We asked to throw out the word realistically, or that if the pronoun intended to keep it at the very least, he could use a word that was more real in use in Serbian, and it can't mean or some things could be real or imaginary. So, it is perfectly normal for the ministry to monitor the implementation of the programme and, if necessary, propose compliance with the needs of at least every two years. What do you consider to be a real necessity? That is why this word is realistic in this text in Article 5. The bill is excessive and normal that the needs that arise in this area are realistic and that the word is realistic and that it needs to be thrown out of Article 5(3). A bill of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58730	Thirty seconds used by an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law on energy. My amendment refers to the area of energy development planning. This article, which I have submitted to the amendment, discusses a programme that sets out the conditions, the way, the dynamics and the measures to achieve the strategy. With my amendment, I asked that the deadline needed to deliver the relevant data be reduced and that that deadline should be reduced from 60 to 30 days. In the context of this strategy, of course relevant data are needed and these data should be supplied by various energy entities, energy agencies, local self-government and others. I asked for a cut in that deadline for the reason it is the data mentioned by the entities practically have been updated. Which is why we've formed the Energy Agency here if it doesn't have the information it needs to the Ministry, if it takes 60 days for them to deliver some data then the actual formation of that agency was a complete failure. This also applies to local self-government and other energy entities. Local self-government must know everything and surely know the strategy, the resources and all that is related to energy potentials in its territory and again I say these data as soon as they are searched they can practically deliver them on the same day or the next, but of course we asked for that deadline to be reasonable again, and the government rejected this amendment with an explanation contrary to what I asked for in the amendment, but good. I can say that that deadline needs to be shortened for another reason. We are witnessing that this, very often, different seagulls occur in the energy field, and energy is the most sensitive area because one stalemate, one problem that occurs in the energy system affects the entire society. Just remember the situation from a few years ago when there was a gas crisis in the same period, when half of Europe ran out of gas, no energy, no heating, and you saw the problems that could arise. That's why this area needs to react quickly, and that's why I asked for this cancer to be reduced from 60 to 30 days. Speaking of energy development here, I'm sorry Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, Energy Minister, is not present here, but there are people from his cabinet from his team. This is about the price of connections to energy potentials. Badava we allow the availability of some energy, if many times in the situation of our society, our households, these energies due to the price of the connection are not available. The law here provides for some methodology for calculating the price of the connection, however, the methodology is one of dizziness and dusting in the eyes of Serbian citizens. And in the principle debate, I cited one example, let's say that in the separation of electricity consumption for one household on the floor, it is necessary to single out an enormous amount of money, which today our households are not able to do, and I think that the price of connections of this type should be reconsidered, and not only that, and other sources of energy. Since I come from the city of Nis, you probably know that in the process of gasification of the town of Nis and it is a completely failed project, where everyone loses, and it has failed precisely because the prices of the connection to the gas stations are enormously high and almost in Nis is not able to pay for such a connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58732	Two minutes and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not pursuant to Article 157(6), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Industry have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58733	Dear People's MPs, respected citizens, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6(1) of the Law following the words "necessary to build" to the proposal for the Energy Act: "to modernise and to reconstruct". This amendment was not accepted by the Government. Article 6 of this Act draws closer to what the programme contains in relation to the energy policy regulation strategy and the development of the energy sector. I would refer to my previous discussion when I mentioned that there has been a mini power plant cadastre since 1987, so the question is how current it is today. For example, in my municipality of Arilla, which is a small municipality according to this valid catastro, six locations were envisaged. However, according to some new master plan built by an anonymous company, 26 locations are foreseen that are truly unrealistic to me. Therefore, it is urgent to create a new cadastre of Serbia's mini hydro power plant, which would be used by local self-government, because local self-governments under this law have become obliged to create their own energy balance, i.e. to form energy sources from their own area. Already interested in mini power plants, they're going around the municipalities, they're going through places where these locations are, they're mixed up, they're looking for their position, and they're trying to buy land for them, probably, attractively. The position of local self-government in the mini-water power system has not been adequately defined. River streams are at great risk in this situation, respecting their ecological potential, ending natural flows in the canal network, or long pipelines for creating a height difference, as well as a number of mini power plants on the water supply. A clear criterion is needed with the application of the principles of sustainability of river streams. Ban the removal of river streams to build hydropower plants, mini. Introduce standards and standards related to planning and designing such objects. Define the rights of local self-government to manage and use natural resources. Create a minimum flow rule to ensure a biological minimum. It is essential and important in all of this to use domestic capital, both state and local self-government, because for these types of energy foreign capital is extremely interested. It's home to him, but it's from tycoons looking for their own interests in all of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58734	One minute used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have asked for this amendment to Article 7 and it, by the way, refers to a report on the implementation of a strategy between the programmes submitted by the Ministry to the Government for adoption. We asked, in addition to this report on the budget and the balance indicators in the production of energy, imports and exports, as well as the financial indicators of business operators in the energy system. It is a very interesting response from the Government, not to be accepted for the reasons why the data types mentioned in the amendment are not contained in the programme strategy. We know they're not contained, but based on the actions defined by strategy and programme, there are some balances and some results. You've put us all through the fact that through some other report it's given to the government for insight, and through some other data. We are now not looking for these balance sheets of accounting character, as some others are submitted to whether agencies or institutions. It would be very important that through this data we insisted on, we see how you implement the strategy and what the results are. We once told the minister here, the credibility of every proposal in the future depends only on what he left behind. Today, when you look, I will address you, because the minister is not here, of course, do not take me for harm, when you look at the balance sheets and what the results are to be given already in this time period from the adoption of the strategy until 2015. The results are devastating. I don't put that on any of you personally. I have no intention of doing that. I'm aware of the legacy of the '90s when it comes to the energy sector. These poor results affected not only the bad concept that defined the then state leadership. Then we had wars, we had sanctions, we had aggression and bombings, and I said yesterday when we talked about the Energy Agency, energy policy was being driven out of necessity. Then came the geniuses of power and friends of the world who promised money and revitalization of the energy sector. When you look at the results today, one conclusion is imposed, strategy, plans, programs, for governments from 2000 on here, they were purely declarative and completely non-binding. They were not bound by their laws, so that they might be bound by something which had no power or burden of law. If anyone in this building, in this room, has been insisting in this assembly since 2008, on strategic and planning documents, on the necessity of having these documents, it was the SRS. From spatial plans of local to national character and some other development documents arising from or relying on them. After all, and this strategy that we're talking about right now, you're going to have to coordinate with spatial plans and some other development documents. That's not controversial. Someone in the government has to make a commitment. Someone in the government must finally start carrying out what they're bound to through the papers. Today when we talk about strategy, when we talk about programs, when we talk about plans, here they write here, two-thirds of the time since this strategy was adopted, it's almost over. Isanalyse the balances, analyse the situation in Serbia's energy sector. That's what I was saying in the principle debate. There are five basic priority programs defined here. Did you report to the government, the Assembly, in the realisation of these programs, whatever, the public? But it would be very nice if we were to balance and draw the line, because, here, and the mandate for this government is on the air, and who knows if you're going to sit where you're sitting tomorrow, so let's draw a line and let's say what you've done. What did you implement from the strategy for your four-year term? Since the problem is to install balances in these reports, here, even accept -- it can't, you'll do it through something else. But look, let's say, the first priority of the continuity of the technological modernisation of existing energy facilities, systems and sources, etc. This was about revitalization of the thermal power plant, hydropower plant, not to read any further, you know what sources are, etc. Why did this serve behind us in time? Here, Mr. Darkie, robbery and crime, here are the documents. The prosecution, EPS, they're all familiar. That's what it stands for. The category of revitalisation served mainly for this, for abuses through public procurement. It is unfortunate that those involved did not manage the general public interest, indeed by revitalising the energy sector, but rather by embezzling their own corporate, private, personal or party political interest. That's the problem, and it doesn't seem to change that and be different. I don't want to talk like this, and I can tell you both specific numbers and data, I live in an environment that's very interesting in that sense. If you're interested, I can tell you that later. You have a second priority – rational use of quality energy, increasing energy efficiency. I consider myself fully competent, because I lived and was the president of the municipality's first of 10 municipalities in Surdulica, which has renewed through the project of international finance through a project of energy efficiency of primary school in terms of carpentry, floors, heating, etc. We understand what it means and what it's worth, because if you switch windows and carpentry today, in five years, you'll have less heat to pay for that school. It's a political concept of the SRS. Do you think anyone on this team has been handling it for the last 10 years? No one, but absolutely no one, they don't care. Not to talk about raising awareness of energy efficiency, and that's what I told you. What about introducing something that the subject should represent in schools, so we can teach the children what energy efficiency is? Why should he turn off the phone charger from the plug when he loads the phone? You're talking fairy tales about renewable energy sources, European directives, milk and honey. Life passes us by, I don't know what it is. Here, we come up with these famous priorities of using renewable energy. There, Mr. Darkie, you seem to be quite familiar with these things happening in Serbia. The SRS invites you and urges you to oppose the lobby, not to let them shimmer and harass in Serbia, not to subdue the interest of the Serbian energy sector with your own personal interest, party interest, individual or group company interest, it doesn't matter. Mr. Milan Nikolic spoke of it earlier, it is not exactly what it says in the documents. When you compare the cadastre of small hydropower plants on paper and in reality, they're largely deviating because people who haven't really visited it have passed everything and seen it stand, or used by people who want to change it the way it suits them. You are obliged to defend this Serbian interest because you are sitting where you are sitting. The SRS invites you to do that. You can, not personally, but as a government, show top political irresponsibility to the time in which we live, but you have no right to leave it to generations that come after you, because you neither energy nor economic assumptions have come true and have not decided to start changing things in the coming period when it comes to energy. Then you have an emergency investment in new power sources, etc. Until you decide that Serbia will get an economic price of energy, not political and social, there is no investment. They won't give us credit because we can't finance it, because we can't take part in it. As we talk about capital, intensive, energy and infrastructure projects, we haven't been able for 10 years, ever since they came to power and talked about European directives, to replace the numbers. Serbia had to recognize the job in exchange for numbers. The Serbian electronics industry could find its own interest in all of this and would never say - don't take credit for it. The numbers were won, they were won in my community. I have no intention of defending anyone. The company that did this count today is in bankruptcy, workers are owed, strikes are etc. But at one point, Cat made some numbers. The state had an interest in supporting, involved foreigners, involved other people's interests, lobbys, public procurement, etc. It's unthinkable, it was a million-dollar business that the state could have had an interest in and used it as an economic momentum, that tomorrow these numbers of exports, not to be completely energy-dependent. So if we're already importing oil and gas, we can export numbers, we have enough brains to do that, but there's no sense in those who make political decisions and there's no political will for the state to settle. Therefore, the SRS believes that this policy must be broken up in the next elections. Did you listen to the beginning of the session? Can you get the impression that there is power in this country? Everyone is now an opposition, as elections are close to all opposition, and I'm talking-- life passes by us. This is one of our development opportunities and every strategy, and the future one that is passed, both to you and everyone, is something that binds us, not a thing to brag about, and that the papers, the statistics that we've adopted from law to strategy, so we're going to have a national integration programme, and as we adopt laws and strategies, they're giving us one for another a new request. So when Goran Hadzic goes to The Hague, then the problem is to recognise the independence of KIM, and we enjoy fairy tales here, and we think we've solved all things. I am not going to waste any more time on my parliamentary group, and lastly I just want to say that the energy sector in Serbia, based on the strategy and all the documents adopted in the period ahead of us, has not experienced a third of what was to be experienced, has not met the preconditions, neither the economic, nor the energy, and we fear that as long as this political set is decided in Serbia, Serbia cannot expect the perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58736	National MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic submitted the 8th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58737	Dear Presidency, Mr. Mr. Darkic, we have submitted an amendment to Article 8 concerning the adoption of time limits for the adoption of the country's energy balance. Yesterday, on the Energy Committee, we discussed the amendment. We believe that the energy balance is very important and that it should be brought as soon as possible, so that this information could be operational and could benefit both the ministry and the state at all when some plans are being made. The bill states that the energy balance brings the government on a proposal from the ministry, no later than the end of December of the current year for the following year, i.e. by the end of the year for the following year. We talked about yesterday that we think it is necessary to bring the energy balance earlier, at least until September or October of the month, when the heating season begins, that this energy balance would be operational as a data and would help both the state and the general ministry, in terms of the organisation of how energy imports, the provision of energy for the needs of the heating season, etc. Most of the country's energy and energy needs are being reconciled between mid-October and mid-March, when the heat season is and it is very logical and normal to bring the energy balance before the deadline. Your argument was that so far it has been a practice for local self-governments, which are entities in this business, that the AP and other entities, at the end of the day, do it very late and do it only somewhere on force in December, when it has already reached some deadline, which in any case is a fact, but does not mean that this fact does not need to and cannot change. Every heat, every city, every public enterprise knows its needs in advance based on experience from previous, or previous years. Nothing that's significant can change. Each heat based on previous year's experience, the number of users, the area that heats up some average temperatures, knows exactly how much energy it needs. The data will certainly not change significantly, perhaps in a few percent, from the one it gives in September and the one it gives in December, when it is already defined here to bring the plan in December. I think it's perfectly logical and normal that this deadline can be shortened, that it needs to be shortened so that it really makes sense. This, in December of the month, when we have already entered deep into the warm season and when that data in the global can be used as statistical but not as operational, so that both the government and the ministry can use it for those needs that, ultimately, in law and defined. I will refer briefly to what Mr. Stevanovic said. I fully agree that energy efficiency is something that is very slow to take in our country and that should be a much more significant measure and that it should be given much greater importance both in the education system and through all public institutions, businesses, that there is simply awareness that we are spending more and more energy waste than is necessary and necessary. So there is no absolutely 100% efficient energy system or institution, but surely much more can be saved by energy, i.e. it is less wasteful than it is in Serbia. According to data, the average energy consumption per square metre in Serbia is between 220 and up to 250 kilowatts per year, while in developed countries and those more drastically applying energy efficiency measures ranges from 80 to 100 kilowatts per square metre, which is, therefore, two to three times less than in Serbia. Only the poor seem to waste, and I would add that besides the poor and irresponsible and uneducated and illiterate they do so. It's not pleasant to talk about my country, but it's just like that. I think that both the Ministry of Energy and ultimately the state and all institutions have to deal more seriously with this topic and that through the story of energy efficiency, we are thinking a lot more about ways of reducing energy waste, how we are going to replace potential shortcomings in the country's energy and energy needs, than about how we are going to make some new sources, big sources. Of course, these sources must certainly be created because of the obsolescence of these present ones, but surely there is significant energy savings if all energy efficiency measures are applied. Replacement of carpentry and those things that Mr. Stevanovic mentioned and one remark that no one thought about it was the cause of people on the other side and the current position. I think it was one of the motives to save energy, but if you mess up these public procurements and the prices at which it's done, then eat the gift measure. Then everything that's saved years behind, it's first eaten in the beginning through unrealistic acquisitions, and then it all loses its meaning. The game of the case currently implements the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre in terms of energy efficiency, changes in carpentry, is about isolation. The other day, because of some of my needs, I went there and watched it, it's okay, it's quality and it's gonna be nice and it's gonna be a significant energy savings. There's only one thing I don't understand. Who thought that the aluminum carpentry, which was installed in the construction of the Clinical Center, was changing and is now placing plastic there? If someone tells me it makes any sense and it's a quality piece of work, it's an honor. To change the aluminum carpentry that is the top of that construction industry with plastic carpentry and call it an energy-efficient measure, I think it's either not well-intentioned, or something is wrong with knowledge. These are some of the remarks and suggestions, and this time I've exceeded, I'm asking the chairman to turn down the time of the authorised representative of the group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58738	The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58739	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I move on to the amendment to Article 11, I would only briefly spend a few seconds on the adopted amendments submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. On Article 7, if Article 4 provides that the strategy is to be adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the Government, for a period of at least 15 years, it was quite logical that in Article 7. The government submits an annual report to the National Assembly on the implementation of a strategy and programme covering it. It is the adopted amendment to Article 7a. The adopted amendment to Article 8 said that the last position was added, that the ministry is obliged to publish the adopted energy balance on its website no later than 15 days after the day of publication in "The Official Messenger". We have a situation where someone who pays a political party 30,000 dinars should be posted on the party's website, and the most important thing in the field of energy and energy balance, which is very important, especially for the area of investors, has been asked to be published on the Ministry's website. Because because of this discrepancy and the gaps between plans, strategies, programmes, between real and things that contain documents and the whole situation that this area is not seriously analysed and monitored, or does not harmonize with the specific and real needs of the market and the time in which we live, we have a situation that what is realised from the energy balance is at a distance of up to 70%. This is the situation, unfortunately, most often in Serbia, and because of this situation we have serious problems with energy security and great damage and costs in all of this. Article 11 or amendment to Article 11. The bill requires that the government, on a proposal from the ministry, be deleted in the first position. What does this mean, "Government on a proposal from the Ministry"? Should the ministry oblige the government to propose and monitor the implementation of the strategy? If the ministry does not oblige the government to propose and monitor the implementation of the strategy, it will not do so. It's a completely unnecessary thing. The government is under a legal obligation to do this without a motion from the restoring ministry. That is why we are asking for the words "on a proposal from the ministry" to be deleted in attitude 1. Article 7, which reads as follows: "requires the incentive measures for the production of electricity by using renewable energy sources and for the purchase of energy and the act establishing the level of the incentive fee", we ask that it be changed and that it is "brings a measure of incentives for the production and purchase of electricity and energy for remote cooling using renewable energy sources and plants for combined production of electricity and heat". We believe that it is also necessary to add this situation, i.e. it is necessary to insert into point 7. energy for remote cooling for a simple reason because in this area very large amounts of energy are used during this intense energy season for the summer period, so it is necessary to take steps with the situation realistically on the market and given that there is the possibility of remote control and introduction of these systems, it is necessary to insert into point 7 of Article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58740	The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58741	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, for the SRS, what has been proposed in my amendment is very important, and it concerns incentives to power generation, what the state will implement in renewable energy sources. The SRS must point out that such regulation by EU directives, the European Commission, European entities who are too eager to sell technology to us are breaking not only our Constitution but also many laws, as well as Stabilisation and Association Agreements. I'll start with our constitution that's clear. In Article 84, the following is said: "They all have the same legal position on the market. Acts restricting competition against the law by creating or abusing a monopoly and dominant position are prohibited." What's this about? It is a direct takeover of everything currently in the EU. The EU has energy problems. We do, too, but on a far smaller scale. They want to replace certain energies by introducing alternative sources, meaning renewable energy sources, have technology and they will replace a part of their energy produced from hydroenergy or thermoenergy through certain types of substitution of certain energy sources. For us it is very unacceptable, not only have I read here in the law, but because these sources of energy in Serbia do not have a tradition, we have neither made any preconditions nor technical nor technological or catastrian etc. On the other hand, all that is now known will be from about five to ten percent of the next 20 years in the total volume of energy produced. A little, but it'll cost a lot. On the other hand, when we talk about bringing into an unequal position those that produce 100% energy today, they won't be financed, they won't have an incentive by the state, and on the other hand, we'll introduce expensive technologies to produce five to ten percent of the energy. Expensive, irrational and unacceptable for Serbian citizens. When you talk about the objectives of energy policy, you say that you will protect, that the obligation of energy subjects is one of the entities of the state, that you will protect the interests of citizens. Is this where citizens' interests are protected when today a citizen pays energy about five euros and five cents, and for the same energy they will have to isolate, there is no one else to pay but a citizen will pay for that energy produced in wind energy, somewhere between nine and ten euro cents, in solar energy over 20 euros, etc. It will be far more expensive energy than it is today. Is that how we protect the citizens of Serbia? We're not protecting. Who are we protecting? We protect one who imposes such a policy. Who imposes such a policy? The EU. For what? Because of the technology they're going to produce for us here. We still have to warn the State Aid Control Act. Any type of funding from any budget and parabuges source is prohibited where the freedom of the market is marred. Is the freedom of the market being violated here? It is infringing, because we dominant energy producers are going to put in a more unfavourable position than at this point less significant both in production and in quantity of produced energy. Is that how we protect the citizens of Serbia? We don't protect them, we put them in a position so they can't pay in these conditions either, and if we include five to ten percent more energy, so we calculate those amounts that I've quoted, then they'll have far more expensive electricity. On the other hand, I pointed out yesterday, the EPS openly says that the price of electricity will have to increase by 2013, to balance at 0-region level, by about 60% compared to these prices. Who's gonna be able to pay for that? Will it be possible for Serbian citizens to pay? He won't. With this direct application of European standards, we tear down the country. Tomorrow, we will have these incentives for the terrible influence of foreign investors. We've got them today. On the Committee on Industry which covers and energy, we have seen the entanglements of individual political parties that are only interesting where they represent some of the lobby groups that want to join certain parties. That was visible, it's clear to you at the Ministry because you have these pressures every day by individual entities on the side that will come here. On the other hand, it is also noticeable with our tycoons that they want to enter just because they know that if they enter this area they will get a boost from the state and what they personally invest, it will come back in three to five years, and we know that every energy that is made in our space will live from 30 to 40 years. After five to seven years of capital invested, the capital invested will return, and that further is profit. The ministry has a responsibility, the government has a responsibility, and you must not let a devious EU policy stand behind this that will sell us expensive energy. We're not going to have enough energy, we're going to leave the energy systems that are working under difficult conditions today. They are monopolies and are irrational to the end, but they have met the needs of electricity production and transport. We have the cheapest energy and our goal is to stay in this status and have the cheapest energy. The wishes and requirements of the EPS should be put aside. First, let them resolve their irrationality - irrational economic and energy policy, huge consumption, huge donations and donations that give to various sectors, primarily NGOs, various institutions, sports organisations, no tender, no normal procedure, etc. They must be reduced to rational business and then we have enough reserves to further our capacity, enable citizens to generate cheap electricity and meet needs and thus protect citizens, because they will be unprotected. They'll pay, and they've paid her to this day, all these irrationalities. On the other hand, when foreign investors come to them to make too expensive technological energy, they will pay a far higher price of electricity than they are now paying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58742	Mr. Mirko Chikiriz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58743	I object to the adoption of this amendment which would delete Article 11 of Article 7’s position. The bill, as this would almost fully devalue the country's intention to use energy more energy from renewable energy sources in the energy sector. The argument that it can force certain energy producers, that they can get incentives without others being able to, etc., would only be acceptable from that angle if other facts were ignored. In fact, the overall drive of the energy sector in the most stable energy countries is to make as much use of renewable energy as possible. In Europe, Latvia is the leader in the production of energy from renewable energy sources. Norway uses about 40% of its energy from renewable energy sources. In EU countries, the percentage is around 8.5%, with a tendency to reach 20% by 2012. How do countries think they increase energy from renewable sources? Among other things, and by incentive. For what? First of all, because it is the energy found in nature that is completely or partly restored, and above all is thought of the energy of wind, water, and sun. What are the consequences of the production and use of that energy for the protection of the human environment? What are the consequences of global warming and warming in relation to the use of energy obtained, say, from thermal power plants, and thermal power plants are one of the largest pollutants in the human environment. Harmful materials obtained by energy production of thermal power plants are one of the main causes of carcinogenic diseases of people living in these areas. Will we have such consequences with the use of wind, sun, or water? I'm sure you don't. Not to mention protecting human environments, water streams, land, etc. So the benefits of using renewable energy sources in relation to these others are immeasurable. The benefits of protecting the state of health of the population are enormous, as well as for protecting the human environment. It is certain that there are also areas where renewable energy sources would be used, today they are mentioned again, where, surely, given the small number of inhabitants etc, it is not economically cost-effective to build a hydropower plant. However, in such cases, the state should give incentives precisely for those reasons concerning both the use of renewable energy sources and the protection of the human and environmental environment and the protection of the population. If this is observed in one overall context, if it is put into one plane, then it is really necessary for the state to encourage the production of renewable energy in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58744	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58745	Obviously, we didn't understand each other. Just what you just said confirms the views of the SRS and mine that I made in the amendment. "The incentive will be given to those who enter the production of electricity from renewable energy sources." Let's get wind production. What's that pollution from the energy that's producing? Very small, and we'll invest in protecting the environment from that little pollution. On the other hand, thermal power plants are highly polluted. Will he have the right to benefits, to encourage? They won't. We must protect what is causing great pollution and the necessity of sustainable development. We have to invest where we now have primary production, dominant production, and it's in thermal power plants. So they're contaminants, and we have to help them prevent that level of pollution, not in hydroenergy, there's little pollution, not in solar energy, there's little pollution, there's energy for the production of electricity from the wind, and there's little pollution. We will encourage them and we will not encourage those who really pollute the environment. Sustainable development in the situation when we dig into hectares and hectares of the country and let out who knows how many tons of sulphur into the air, we will leave them because we have received a directive and now we will protect what is not primarily protected at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58746	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58747	If we consider that the objective of each energy policy is secure supply, then it is the ministry's task to realise such a goal. This objective cannot be achieved if the whole story of Article 12, which is mainly the obligations of the ministry for this area, does not include those with responsibility for the supply of consumers. What's security in energy supply? Both quantity and quality and price and all other parameters on the market and the environment. Thus, the conditions of supply and supply of electricity and natural gas, as well as the measures taken in situations where electricity and gas market disturbances occur cannot be adequately seen without public undertakings dealing with consumer supply. That is why we consider it appropriate that they too should be involved in this process and that it is necessary to take the parameters in their environment and knowing the real situation in the places where they operate and where consumers supply regular annual reports to the ministry responsible for this area and that the ministry report, which is very important for the energy area by the end of September of the current year, in co-operation with these responsibility holders with the supply of consumers. It also provides a quality report based on a good analysis of all actors, all entities in this area and possibly foresee measures in the course of supply disturbances, especially during these summer periods of energy supply, when there are possible disturbances in the energy supply market. What else did we ask for to change in Article 12? That in points 9, 10, 11 and 12 in front of the words, referring to the ministry's tasks in charge of the area, it is prescribed to add the word "closer" because the authority given to the ministry in this area essentially goes beyond the constitutional competences of the executive authority. Therefore, these provisions did not, in accordance with constitutional principles, divide the authorities and the constitutional position of the state administration as an automatic part of the executive authority and therefore it was necessary to adopt and comply with the draft law with the other provisions. In front of the word "prescription" to add the words "closer", as it cannot be regulated by sublaws that are subsequently foreseen to bring the ministry not only for this law but also for other laws, what is necessary to regulate by law. That is why, in this context and in the context of similar laws, the constitutional competence of the executive authority is derived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58748	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58749	In Article 13. Proposal, point 4) Distribution of electricity and management of distribution systems, otherwise this is an area of energy activities, licences or permits and energy permits, to be changed and to read: "distribution and supply of electricity and management of the distribution system" and in points 20) and 21) at the end of the word "production of heat energy and "disposal of heat energy", they add the words "energy for remote cooling" to both points. In electricity, the only activity of general interest is the transmission of energy and not the way it is today, but the transmission that covers all voltage levels, starting from the highest voltage level to the distribution level, which is, say, 35 kilovolts. Everything else is an offer and demand. It is inadmissible that the bill creates a division of distribution and supply, because not only is it not economic, but it is not energy, nor efficient, nor justified. How can someone deal with supply if a state-owned distribution company has a whole network? There's a logical question for all of this. Since distribution is primarily a trade, and it is a widespread practice and environment and in all parts of the world that power plants, in order to ensure safe customers, in practice, buy distributions and place their goods, or energy, to the final consumers. In view of the situation, we have recently shared several distribution centers, quasi distribution centres, let's say, I talked the last time King and Nova Varosh were in one distribution system, that Leskovac and Frogs should be in one distribution system. Because of all this, we have in practice that certain plants, or parts of the network, are not maintained, and they don't even know who is in charge, and that the companies that were formerly, or the centres that were in charge of the situation, the type, the royal subcenter Užica, remain in the same number and employees, they just don't have the same information, everything else is as if there are these distribution centres. If we are not really, rather advocating decentralisation, then we must understand that this problem of distribution of electricity and distribution is largely a problem of local self-government and if we are actors of decentralisation of Serbia, we must also think about this segment, or this problem is decentralised, to solve as many local self-government and smaller centres as possible, and not the existing division that exists, and possibly a new division in this area, which makes such centres artificial, and not given the situation as it is on the ground. The Serbian Progressive Party considers it inadmissible that in the electrical energy system as ours, and it is in the nature of space and consumers itself extremely small, do not make artificial two transfers, one for high voltage and the other for small voltage. In the principle debate, I said, and that's what the question is -- where does one's jurisdiction stop and the other's jurisdiction begins? In view of the need to increase energy efficiency, which is a cancer of early Serbian electricity and complete energy, and the application of modern practical, economic and technological solutions that exist in countries in the environment and countries of the European Union, we propose that, in terms of this law and energy activity relating to remote cooling, not only that the work related to remote heating be included in this bill. I have just mentioned to you that during these periods of the summer months, when it is heavily burdened and threatened stability of the electricity system, this can be tempered and resolved by remote cooling systems and automatically, this solution becomes more rational, and the legislator did not take into account this area that has become an integral part of our life, is not regulated by the legal frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58750	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58751	For us, it is very important that all of this is prescribed in Article 13. That is why we have made one correction, which concerns the organisation and regulation of the electricity market. By way of derogation from Article 13 of the Energy Act, the draftr has completely new ways of designing the system of this activity, so that part of the work comes out of the system of general interest and the part remains in the general interest. We think that this is wrong, that it will cause huge problems, that freedom of the market is harmful, it must be limited, especially in the transitional period, and that the free market will bring some problems, and we ourselves know that right now, six months ago, we shut down the Ministry of Energy and Mining, for unknown reasons. The business branch, which has the highest participation in the gross social product, has run out of hats. Capa is a ministry, the highest executive body of the state government. It was inserted into another ministry. Part of the workers entered that ministry, etc. There is a concern, reforms have entered without the ministry. The strongest economic branch has run out of hats, with problems that culminate. We must say that we have huge problems and there will be even more problems, both in terms of production, and distribution, and outing the market, and the problems that will bring that market, the issue of prices, the issue of economic operators, etc. All of this should be put in one context. On the other hand, a special accent has been put on strengthening the regulatory body, i.e. the agency, by these provisions of the law and by this member. The agency, too, isn't ready right now. It can't be like that. It's a huge transition of jurisdiction from one state authority to another. The Agency has no personnel structure at the moment, no technical and technological structure, no spatial structure, no professional personnel, and is not ready at this time to accept all this and no political authority either. Tomorrow when foreign lions come here with investments, etc., the regulatory body cannot fight, neither can the government, nor can it resist the pressures that come daily. The least the agency can do. You'll see it in practice. You'll be changing this very soon. No government should be without the Ministry of Energy in the future. It can't be. There are huge needs in this area to meet the needs of citizens in electricity production, because of the importance of electricity and development in the area. He can't do it without the Ministry, he can't do it without state institutions, etc. What has been set up so far, the ministry, which does not have adequate documentation, has no adequate data, it was empty. It's completely empty. It was empty, because the ministry had no opportunity, no power to react, to monitor, take measures. That's why our concern, which is why we went with this correction, to install a "edit" in this member, is completely regulated by the market. There is no way to do what is normally done on the market. We have, that's what we mentioned, we have huge problems in the banking market, and we've also allowed foreign banks to come in and slap citizens here, and they're slapping the state, etc. Just because we haven't created preconditions and certain entry brakes, in a more drastic approach to the market and created preconditions for a more comfortable entry and for one system, for one order, for certain rules, standards, etc. We'll have problems, you'll see, very soon we'll go with the amendments and additions to this law, and for that, here's the chance. We adopted 35 amendments on the Committee on Industry. You had to accept the amendments far more, because they were corely, summed up, fundamentally, they entered into the core of life, not the law, not the theory, but life. We'll wait very soon to change it, etc. That's bad. You'd better look at it and suggest it entirely. We're gonna lose half a year, a year, but we're gonna get to a quality law that's gonna live for tens of years in legal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58752	National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The word is Mr. Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58753	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted this amendment in direct connection with Article 15. According to the proposal for the provisions of Article 15, an operator system which is part of a vertically or horizontally integrated undertaking is intended to be linked to legal form, organisation and decision making from other activities which do not relate to the management of a transmission, transport and distribution system, or the storage of natural gas, where ownership of the means of the transmission transport system or distribution system does not have to take place in a vertically integrated undertaking. You see, the SRS has submitted this amendment and believes that there is no such legal formulation in Serbia, at least for now, in our legal system, and at the same time in previous laws there is no such formulation and we believe that this amendment should be adopted. This way, the proposed norm is obnoxious, incomprehensible, vague and in practice incomprehensible. Since there is no such connection between the system horizontally and vertically in Serbia, it was better to find another, more natural formulation and thus bring the norm into line with our legal system and legal life. So I suggest you adopt this amendment. As far as the law itself is concerned, I think that the provisions of this law are quite obnoxious, quite inaccurate, too extensive, because one member in any law, and even this law on energy, should not contain one whole page or even two pages in the law, because that is not norm. It's not accurate and clear and it's not easy to apply. What does this law want to achieve? This law aims to achieve, above all, to allow for an increase in electricity prices. This law will provide a number of opportunities to increase electricity prices and other energy sources. Why is this, at first sight, a skillful demonstration of this to the Assembly and citizens that we need to bring this into line with prices in EU countries? You see, how do we coordinate petrol prices with EU countries, when the price of gasoline in Serbia is the highest compared to all EU Member States? Why are we deviating from that principle? You see, instead of the government, on 1 January 2013, the energy price will be determined by the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia. So, the government proposes that the Agency be formed, that the Agency be employed by feudal political parties, so Serbia will be the largest agency in the world, and by last year we had 111 agencies and funds, and now we have, whatever law the government proposes, a new agency and no agency has nothing. So far, Serbia and the former state of Yugoslavia have lived without these agencies and citizens ten times as satisfied and lived better. You see, from 2015, households and small company buyers up to 50m euros will have the opportunity to choose energy suppliers. I don't see any reason why something like this is even in the law. All subjects, including natural and legal persons, should have the right to choose the energy supplier. This is needlessly introduced into the law. As the SRS MPs say so far, the proposer wants to allegedly act on the EU's order and to comply with its rules with the EU. Well, we're running in front of the ore. She raised a frog's foot because she saw the horses weave. Well, we're not a member of the EU. We have no obligation. What are you courting these Serbian enemies? Until when? Someone left today for treason to receive a medal, and the sharps are occupying our country. Where's the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic to get those at the border? Where are the armed forces to move where they belong in the Republic of Serbia? You see, the paper is in the introduction of the liberalisation of the energy market, however, and it will not prevent the government from increasing prices, increasing the administration. I'm going back to that -- the price of gasoline in Serbia. The government says, as a proposing -- the adoption of this energy law is one of the preconditions for Serbia to gain a positive view of EU candidate status. There is no speech, nor will we enter the EU by 2030. Let's get our hands off the EU, it won't do us any good. Let's put our trust in our beaks. The SRS is against Serbia entering the EU. Serbia has been a modern state for 200 years and Serbia has aligned its regulations with Europe's most modern legislation. Who's offering us this again now, as if we didn't know, as if we had fallen from Mars today? What I have yet to notice, ministry gentlemen, how is it that in the Energy Law proposal, the request of your EU, that Serbia's Energy Agency does not impose penalties for non-compliance with the law? If you have the Agency and you give it authority, it is essential that this agency must also have the authority to impose sanctions on those who do not comply with the law in that area. Finally, I would also like to note and to commend that Parliament Speaker Nikola Novakovic as a gentleman leads the Assembly and that when he heads the Assembly, there is no conflict, no debate with the MPs, no humiliation of the MPs, no humiliation of the National Assembly, and the effect of his running the session is twice as large as some who lead it before him. I'm sorry, but I had to point that out because it respects the MPs. Although he is not a member of the SRS, he is our political opponent, but he is a gentleman when he heads the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58754	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. I don't think it's more appropriate for you to praise me or embarrass me than it is for us to do anything, and then we work together. Thank you. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the 15th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58755	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not praise you Mr. Novakovic as my colleague. It's really humiliating that the minister isn't here, regardless of the obligations he has. I think you should have interrupted the session, because we need direct communication with someone who can respond, whether any amendments will be accepted or not. I think this is really another proof of your indemnity and passion, simple and arrogant behavior. My amendment refers to Article 15(3). The bill of law of the word "vertically integrated" is deleted. It is an interesting explanation that we have received, which is that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the concepts are given within the meaning of this law and in accordance with the obligations of the Treaty establishing the energy community of Southeast Europe. This is proof that you work exclusively on the EU's orders, the European Commission, that you are not asking yourself anything at all, but that you are trying to deceive them, too, is certainly a fact. We had a chance to see yesterday when you interrupted the session and you put in an emergency agenda selection of the privatisation agency. Because the Energy Act has made you all bound up to something else. He made a whole other commitment. Public competitions and everything. You'd set up your political associates then, if I didn't say political obedience. But, of course, it's a good thing Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic came. This vertical thing is also very interesting. Now I'm going to take a chance to compare some things when it comes to verticals. Namely, I come from the Ojac municipality where last year's elections were, where democratic forces have never been in power in the past 20 years. It is promised, then, that the formation of power by verticals and that it will simply come to us with honey and milk and that we will live in a fairy tale, as you represent it in the past 10 years. But the truth is completely different. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, from the silent pre-election promises when the government is established by verticals, we get absolutely nothing. I just want to remind you, but I'm sure you know that very well, because you know the Ojac municipality extremely well, that the signed protocols amounting to 2.5 billion dinars. They're mostly tied to your ministry. There is, above all, road infrastructure, gasification, sewerage, etc. Let's not talk about the promise of opening new jobs. What's interesting is the Odzaki municipality is headed for the construction of gasification in all nine inhabited areas. I can assume that you, with cheap makeup on government reconstruction, have been given more obligations, but it certainly doesn't bother you to know everything that's going on and what's going on within your ministry. The gasification was started in the Ojac municipality. The value of the investment is 11m euros. No public tender. The investor is "Serbiagas". In particular, the director of "Srbijagasa" Dusan Bajatovic gave the order of the Odzaci municipality's assembly to decide on the establishment of a strategic partner to build gasification. An 11m-euro investment without public procurement and tender, so I'm asking if it's a violation of the Public Procurement Act. Which is why it was so done without telling you about the economic justification of this investment. There's been an analysis done on the ground. There's no one from the company to plug in because you've destroyed absolutely everything since 2000, and in the private sector, it's not going to be more than 3% of the citizens. Imagine 11m euros invested in job creation. But unlike that investment, as carried out by Dusan Bajatovic, who today deals with chickening and chickening, sells wheat, etc. That doesn't stop him from breaking the Public Procurement Act. I think you should pay attention to this, especially "Serbiagas" and the way things like this are done with us. In contrast, from this way of selecting the contractors, while the SRS was in power in the municipality of Odzak, we found a strategic partner who was willing to finance the entire investment himself. Normally, by order of Dusan Bajatovic, the members of the SPS were against it and that point was removed from the agenda. At that time, the association of citizens of our municipality would cost about 600 euros, and today it will cost them 900 euros. That's why the SPS members got a warrant to come out of the coalition with us and form power by verticality. In the Odjak municipality, you were able to fool the citizens in this election, but you certainly won't be on the next one. I'd like to remind you, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, because here in the debate in principle, you said that there's a lot of work to do for the tolls only that there are little problems right now. There are little bigger problems, you weren't here at the beginning of the session when Mr. Pastor spoke of the money allegedly under this shameful statute of Vojvodina, the Law on Transfer of Jurisdiction should be served in the AP, primarily in the capital investment fund, and they owe four and a half billion dinars from the previous period. A great deal of those funds are due to the Duke's path, Backa Road. This is one of the reasons why the tolls are currently in this situation. I must remind you that you have promised to make way, Gracac – Kruščić, first of all because of the border crossing to Bogojev, you promised to enter the programme of the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". You promised you'd start work on the bypass. We are the only city, perhaps in Serbia, where heavy cargo traffic passes through the city centre. We've done everything in our power. We're the only ones who don't understand this government and the Resort Ministry. I'm sure there's always a solution and there is, but as I said, you've succeeded in the Ojacs, this artificial coalition to fool citizens, for the first time in twenty years. Believe me, this will be the first time, for the last time and never again. That's how you'll get through the next election if you keep doing it like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58756	The 16th Amendment was submitted by the People's Ensigned Milorad Baptism. Is anyone going to say? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by the People's Member Bojan Mladenovic. Is anyone going to say? No, I don't. ) On the 17th amendment submitted jointly by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Committee on Industry have accepted and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojić – Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Vojić - Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58757	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, good afternoon, we're glad you're here, because we really had the impression that we've been talking for two and a half hours. I know you had important things to do, because I see corridor ten is getting complicated again and I hope you've solved it because we'd all like to travel better. Let's get back to this energy bill of ours. Title above Article 15 and separation of system operators and separation of accounts. Article 18 of the provisions of Articles 15 and 17 of this Act shall not apply to operators of electricity distribution systems, natural gas to which the system is connected by less than 100,000 final customers. What got us first, us from the DSS, confused -- where you found this number of 100,000 customers. What we wanted further to achieve with this amendment is that we do not feel that there should be any difference between the power distribution system operator and natural gas compared to the number of final customers. We believe that all operators must have exactly the same conditions. And in principle when I was speaking, I noticed what I therefore concluded from talking to very professional people who were dealing with this area, is the fact that you're actually making a good part of the law for a single company. I will use what Mr. Mrakic is, because I have already promised to talk about it and ask the question - is it possible that a Canadian company that is really developing "Brodarevo I and II" has so much power that a state secretary of the former ministry, I don't know the status of a gentleman right now in the new ministry, should lobby at the meetings of SO Prepolje. What I said to the lobby was a fact, I saw it from footage that all Serbian citizens could see. I think that in the field, because they don't have the right to be here, I ask -- do all the State Secretarys now have the same assignment to lobby for other companies in some other council sessions? Then Mr. Mrakić said several key things that are, of course, untrue. One of these things is that the former government and the former DSS ministers, they were meant by them, did not want some of the investments, which the government together with him and the minister respected. So they didn't want to respect them because there were no projects. He was immediately denied in that same video by the gentleman from that Canadian corporation, but in view of the finding that the DSS ministers didn't want to take the projects out of the drawer. The truth is, Mr. DSS ministers didn't have, they didn't come to that place to share Serbia's resources. We believe that resources and river resources belong to all citizens of Serbia and Serbia should get something from it, not that everything made of such power plants goes somewhere else, such as Ibro or green kilowatts for Italians. I must say, as the law says, you have practically made 185,000 megawatts of lessons that would produce Brodarevo 1 and 2 which the citizens of Serbia will pay for 12 years, because they will be able to be privileged producers and buy them all the state's energy at affordable prices. So, Serbian citizens will directly pay this company between 155m and 200m euros for guaranteed energy purchase. I'm asking you to talk about it, and I'm going to ask you to answer some more, which supports the story I'm trying to place in public. That's a statement by a man I don't think I should make a name, because Mr. Djordjevic is the name that only speaks for himself and who said this in an interview for your professional newspaper: "Hydro-energy facility, and special ones that pay back invested capital for just a few years, give foreigners as a concession, only lazy and incompetent" and continues "no one builds hydropower plants from their finished money, no concessionary. He goes out to the capital market, borrows money and builds an object. The bank's money comes back from profit, and when it comes back in a certain number of years, it goes on like a pure charm. That's why we wouldn't be moving around a little bit and going to the capital market, so we're going to build at least the most profitable hydropower plants, the ones that would create a cash battery for further reinvestment." Why did you guys just decide to give concessions to Ibar, which is a river of great energy potential, but God and the river are for some other things that bring profit, like rafting and other things. It should be said this, the signing of the Ibra dam protocol means that all electricity will go to Italy. If all dams were built, and the total power is about 100 kilowatts, the Seciengi company, which will import electricity, will earn about 80m euros per year according to my estimate. The Italians make hydrothermia, they take electricity, and the dams will pay us back in 20 years. In this case, it seems to me like a fantastic return to investment. In three, four years, you pay back your money, and then you have years of good income. It's an Italian business, good obviously. What is the interest of Serbian citizens? It is now in line with Petar Skundric, who was a minister and who says, "for Serbia, it will benefit that our companies and workers will be employed to build new capacities, while the complete traffic that will be achieved will be taxed in our country." It's a little against what we can get. This is not how it is done domestically in the country of Serbia. That's what this government does. I'd like to get an answer to what I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58758	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to article 19. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Rogovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58759	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, since you've come a very easy amendment, one to accept and no weight. In Article 20, which deals with licenses and permits, as we have predicted with the amendments, and you have not accepted. I don't want to repeat myself, your employees, or those responsible by the Resolute Ministry, have heard. It is said that the licence is issued by a solution within 30 days of the date of submission of the licence application if the conditions laid down in this law and the regulations adopted under this law are met. We believe that the proposal misdefined the procedure required for the authorisation to carry out energy performance, or the licence you use in this article and the whole bill. The Agency shall not, as a competent authority, be obliged to issue a permit within the regulatory time limit, but to adopt a solution within that time limit. What happens if the Agency doesn't issue a license? You didn't see that coming for this member at all. Because of this and all the ambiguities that the provisions of this article, that is, the law from which all of this and the ambiguity of this situation, what is happening, I ask you a question. What happens to those who don't get a license? You did not foresee this by the draft law in Article 20, because of the whole situation of ambiguity and these provisions, it would be necessary to regulate this part. The Agency shall respond in both cases within 30 days and in the event that the authorisation and licence is granted and in the event that the conditions for issuing the licence are not met, i.e. licenses.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58760	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the 20th amendment. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58761	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20(3) where I suggested that after the word "energy facilities" the words "and new infrastructure facilities" be added. Although Articles 118 and 119 regulate the issue of these new infrastructure facilities. In our opinion and in Article 20, it was also a place to install this sentence relating to newly built infrastructure facilities. What is characteristic and what has to be said is that Serbia has since the arrival of a new democratic government, and has promised much in 2000. Among other things, promises have been made to build hydrothermia, to build factories, businesses, that there will be employment, there will be pay increases, there will be free education, there will be free health care. It was based, for the voter's sake, on the period when it was really both health and education for free. But, you see, no hydropower plants have been built in this period in the Republic of Serbia, and there is a need for that. No windmills were built. He who has the ability and who has the will and where something is seen, and it is seen that roads are being built, although he is late with some roads, but there is energy that is being noticed, and that is the energy of a man who, in his capacity, takes appropriate measures and actions, although he has great obstructions, and that is noticed, that others want everything someone does, to steal it and to attribute it to himself, because the election campaign has begun. Construction sites and bridges are then visited, and it is said that seven construction sites in seven hours yesterday the mayor of Belgrade visited. He didn't visit because he needed to go there, he went for himself and did his promotion. Imagine, please, I didn't remember that in this country a keg was built or a bridge and that the citizens were promised that two days would be suspended works on the Ada gypsies bridge, so that Belgrade's citizens would run to see that this bridge was cheaply built and that it would be for Serbia and for the citizens of Belgrade the only salvation. They don't have to have breakfast in the morning, but they're just going for a walk. One more thing, Mr. Minister, I would take the opportunity if the president would allow me. Yesterday, state television announced, and about precisely road investments, and fortunately, you are here, yesterday the First Programme announced that Bojan Pajtic, therefore, the government of Vojvodina owes the municipality of Pančevo 800 million dinars from the Infrastructure Building Fund, i.e. Four blocks, and I'll take the Duke's Way. The Vojvodnaput company in the middle of the city has made rhumbs and machines pull and now citizens can't get through the centre. There's no room for someone to make wood or come near their home. Now look at the problems. The Republic budget separates from the privatisation of 7%. The South Banat, where I come from, is indeed your South Banat compared to Vojvodina Bangaladesh. He's been neglected. I'm speaking to Mr. Health Minister, and I'm asking him, 350,000 people are being treated in a panic hospital, and there are no conditions, the internal department looks like a barn. I'm asking him to come. He says - I made a deal with Pajtic and Pajtic will come. The friend's lying. Pajtic needs to keep his promise and then I will greet him and honor him. Citizens say -- give something, see what can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58762	Thank you. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Spajic. The word is Mr. Spijic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58763	Dear Representative, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, representatives of the ministry, honourable ministers, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20(5). The energy law, which reads, is not a condition for a license to start carrying out the following energy activities, so the following text lists ten energy activities for which the licence is not a condition. This text of Article 20(5). The Energy Act is a dilemma that a licence is not a condition for the start of these activities, but that during a future period, that is, during the next stage of carrying out those activities, a licence may be required or necessary. Since those activities do not require a licence, I have tabled an amendment that reads as follows: "the licence is not a condition for the launch of the following energy activities" and reads: "the licence is not necessary for the performance of the following energy activities" and then lists ten activities for which no licence is required. The government did not accept this amendment, but since we have been through all the amendments on the Committee on Industry, some of my colleagues have submitted an amendment to Article 20(5). The energy law, and what's very important is that the text of Article 20 is going to be Article 5. The energy law will be amended and all dilemmas will be removed in this way, i.e. they will be specified for which the activities of the licence are not required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58764	Thank you, Mr. Spive. National MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic together submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 21st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word will first be received by Mr. Rogovic, so Mr. Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58765	In Article 21. The draft law, in paragraph 5, stands – for the issue of a licence shall be paid a fee whose height shall be determined by the Agency in accordance with the criteria it adopts. We have proposed to take this position of Article 5 21. The proposal changes and reads – for the issue of an energy performance permit, the amount prescribed by the Government in accordance with the criteria set out in the strategy shall be paid. It is indeed inadmissible to allow the Agency to at the same time adopt criteria for determining the amount of compensation and to determine the amount of compensation. As a result, we asked that the amount of compensation be paid by the Government, and based on the criteria established by the National Assembly by voting the strategy, because these contributions are very serious and affecting the promotion of investors and the overall area of consumers, i.e. prices and will increase the cost of energy consumption. What situation have we had in Serbia in recent years? We have a situation that the department's affairs have taken over both management and various agencies. We do all this under the pretext of the EU's criteria and obligations. Not true, nowhere in the EU's views and criteria stands who should do this and what is called the body. The need for the establishment of the agency is only criteria for the area to be covered and this can be covered by the administration within the competent ministry. What happened in this area? It happened that the people who covered this area in the department, not only about this law, this area, but also about all other areas, stayed to work in the ministry, and that in the agencies that are there, we no longer know how many there are in Serbia, surely over 110, we hire new employees and we come, in the case of this Energy Agency, to an official new apparatus of over three thousand people, from three to five thousand people. In a total set of state administrations, agency employees do not enter this set of state administrations. Because of the price of investors, in order to protect consumers, these things must be envisaged by a strategy, these things must be long-term because of investments in this area, because investment in this area is necessary. Mr. Minister, I'm about to start an introduction into a story that's about yesterday's subject, and it's about the chapters of the members we're working on right now, which is the Agency and the Agency's Council. When an annual view of the Energy Agency is carried out, it can be found that in 2011, the Council of the Agency adopted the names of six of its regulations and only in the light of seven members. Big job for 30 employees! Even these changes are not even published on the Agency's website, but the Agency's website contains data from the previous year. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The agency on its website for this year has only six information, two of which are directly related to the Republic of Serbia, the rest are not related to the Republic of Serbia. The Agency's expenditure in 2010 for salaries is slightly over 83 million dinars, and over 110 million dinars are scheduled for 2011. When you take that salary growth in this sector of this agency, you come up with a figure of over 33%. Did we increase the production of energy by 33% in all these areas, except in NIS, which in previous years is a positive business and we have total failure, problems and deficits in these sectors. I told you in the principle debate, when, God forbid, we sell to Serbia's Elektroprivreda, we come to a situation that she has already spent 40% of her capital, her value, because so many costs have been made in this area. Where's the possibility? I'm asking you if you have any insight into the business of the Energy Agency and have you in these four months, has your predecessor been able to gain insight into the state and business of the Agency? Who allowed them to impose themselves in the area of energy production, distribution and the entire sector, means to increase the price of services provided by the Agency by 33%, so that the Agency raises its salaries by 33% for 2011? Now I'm going to go get the data and I'm not going to name the members of the Agency's Council. One agency council official in 2009 paid 178 thousand dinars. In 2010, according to data in the register of assets, there are revenues of 226 000 dinars. Given that the agency's salary sector is projected to grow by 33% in 2011, we predict that this employee in the Agency's Council will have a salary of about 300,000. Minister, neither you have the salary of 300,000, nor the President of the Republic, nor the Prime Minister has the salary of 300,000. Also, what is evident, I apologize if the information is not correct, for the individual members of the Council you proposed yesterday, and will be adopted on Thursday, there are no data in the asset income register, and we know that this is an act of not reporting property or giving false information from Article 72. Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, part for which prison sentences are threatened and, among other things, do not perform public functions within 10 years. I'm saying I'm sorry if the information isn't correct. In this short time, since this law has been in the process, we haven't been able to find that data in the asset income register. What do we have in the same Council? We have a situation that one member of the 2009 Council received 177,000 dinars of wages, in 2010 received 177,000 dinars of wages, probably in 2011, and some members of the Energy Agency's Council have a constant increase in the amounts I specified, which are recorded in the register of income of assets, of more than 30% on an annual basis. Mr. Minister, in further statement to the other members of the law, I'm going to give you an initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of the general act, and I'm going in this order. Decision establishing a methodology for the determination of tariff elements for the calculation of access prices and the use of the natural gas transport system. The first thing, the assessment of constitutionality. Second, an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the Decision on the value of the coefficient for the calculation of the amount of the fee for energy performance licenses. The next thing, Mr. Minister, is an initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of the Decision establishing a methodology for determining the tariff elements for calculating the price of access and use of the electricity transmission system. Following that assessment, the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the Decision establishing a methodology for the determination of tariff elements for the calculation of the price of access and use of the system for the transport of oil pipelines and of the energy performance licence. All this has been done, Mr. Minister, between May 2008 and today, since the term of office of individual members of the Agency's Council expired. The same people are elected to the Agency's Council, the same people are not aware of the situation that they, by not executing their re-election, have put into a situation all that the Agency has done in the past, that they may fall in the Constitutional Court. I ask you who, if the entities in these areas, which are in the period from 2008 to 2011, are the way the Agency's Council works, what is wrong with both the competent ministry and the previous minister, at least because you are only four months, and the whole government, which has put people in this business into a situation, by collecting the services prescribed by the Agency, if they call for the refund of the amount paid by the Agency. Who's responsible for this? It will again be on the burden of consumers. I will, when I have finished this presentation, tell you that if you find time in today's day, I will give this initiative and ask you to answer me in the course of the debate what will happen if this initiative, and you are sure and I am sure that this initiative will find a constitutional basis in the procedure that will be before the Constitutional Court. Someone's got to be responsible. We have a Council that has been working for six years, and members of the Council are in office both under the old law and under the new law, and only two days before the adoption of this law we choose them under the old law, and after the deadline, some since May 2008, the first two members of the Council, two other members of the Council since May 2009 and President of the Council since 2011. You shouldn't have brought yourself into this situation. You shouldn't have done this either, and you didn't have to solve this sector with your own personnel or irrelevantly whose personnel during the last year of government work and three years before that you didn't remember that this sector, which is very important in terms of permits, licences, the amount of compensation that is for this area and which is unequivocally, amazingly, enables itself and the bill of this law itself to do so – the cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you, as if there was no National Assembly, as if there was no Government. It only has the basis that all these and criteria and compensations determine, as if neither the government nor the ministry exists, and I am sure that no ministry in any area has any besides its burning affairs and problems, has insight into the Agency's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58766	The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Grouchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58767	Thank you, sir. I have remained in debt, although this member is not on the agenda now, since yesterday, but I see that the issue is being resolved and I want to answer, so to Mr. Aligrudić, Stevanovic, Radovanovic, Bozidar Delic, Jeremic, Sreti Perić, Mirko Munjic, Goran Mihajlovic and Milorad Buhi. All yesterday talked about this issue that MP Rogovic was now talking about. I'm sorry I'm late, and I'm late because I went to see what we're gonna do with the strike. I thank you for your patience. As Minister, for four months, I insisted, in my old style, most of you know me, that unfinished affairs in regulation, without having anything to do with the European Community, end immediately. It was the Energy Act, which the people of the Ministry worked for a year, worked thoroughly, a good team of experts, part of it sitting here with me and part of it is in the Ministry, and that's the law we wanted to finish. The second question was the Agency. For my term of office of 100 days or 120, as far as it is today, four times the interventions from the EC came about that agency – why didn't the Agency do it then, and those who spoke yesterday were all right when it was supposed to? I insisted on it. First I sat down and estimated when a new law would be passed. Of course, I'm not stupid enough not to know that. When I saw that we would adopt it somewhere in early August, although I suppose we would adopt it on Thursday, but we will see how long it takes us to choose a new agency – six months at least in existing procedures, if not more, then I suggested that the issue be removed from the agenda. And the people who were proposed to the Agency, we convinced them to keep working until the competition is called. So, the answer to all the MPs since yesterday, and to Mr Rogovic – the competition will be announced as soon as the law is passed. That was the reason, and don't transfer anything to people before me. I've been looking for it like that, and I think it's a good thing. Of course, I knew what the new law meant and I knew what the new law was about. It's about what happened yesterday. About Article 36, I think that's what Mr. Buha talked about most, the Energy Agency was founded in 2004 and cannot be a public agency. He can't. With this bill, it retains legal status and independence from the executive authority. That's what she's been up to now. Of course, I can't as a minister influence the Agency's work. It is independent of you, too, of the Assembly, with obligations under the Law on ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community of Southeast Europe. That's the answer to yesterday's questions, and I wouldn't bother you anymore. A few comments about the personnel. Mr. Velija Ilic comes out. I agree that when I speak here in front of you, I speak on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the man most prominent in teamwork is me. I don't know how to work otherwise. But speaking of which, you're criticizing me, at least take care of how I've been doing these three years, and I think you know that well. All the assistants I found I kept because I think they should be. It's the apron of this new one that's now being advocated by some friends who have been with us or by gentlemen, so they're nowhere to be found. I think that assistants should be professional people, who choose in competition, and they should choose in competition and have it in law and they do their job. The minister may be a political person, although I am in a dilemma whether he can be a political person or not, but let him be. So I haven't replaced anyone. I haven't replaced any of the directors of public enterprises. That's what I answer to the gentlemen of the radicals who attacked me. Even the director of "The Way of Serbia" is not set up during my term, but rather a year before me. So, I pointed out the case, and that's why I want to brag a little bit about how I'm fighting the so-called. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the financing of the European Social Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ERDF). The ministry I run has 150,000 workers, of which 100,000 in traffic, 20,000 tolls, those who now partially strike, 25,000 railmen, 25,000 in air and water traffic, and 25,000 transporters who drive trucks and who bring income to the state of half a billion a year and 50,000 in energy, 34 or 35,000 in the energy sector and 15 thousand in companies that follow. So 600,000 people live off traffic and that's what's important to me. So, in those vaults, no man anywhere, if you find one I set up, please tell me. That's why in that part I don't accept the criticisms that apply to me. I haven't been able to, I have to say it openly, no matter how angry our coalition partners will be, that I've imposed the subject before this government is formed, but, excuse me, gentlemen, you've been in some governments by 2000, so no one has objected, and find one man I've set up and I'm ready to answer. When I talked about the number of traffic workers, I didn't have any bigger problems with these people. They know their jobs, they work professionally, and that's why I owe them here, when I talk about it, to protect them. So that's on the subject of personnel and stories that now the new energy law of the Agency will invent some new directors, not true. But no matter what, I think the Ministry of Energy and Mining should be on its own, I've said it twice already, regardless of what my statement is likely to be about to suffer some criticism. But the Ministry of Energy and Mining is important, because I think energy is our greatest development opportunity, with agriculture and traffic. It's been my attitude for years. It's also known for this part when it comes to people I don't accept personal criticism, but we're going to fight to make what you say come true. About these discussions today, there were a few things that weren't about the amendments themselves, but it's my duty to answer. And that's what people criticized me for. They say, "You will not talk to people, you are only talking about what is the topic of the agenda. I have to answer to people, so I'll be specific. Mr. Jojic, it's good that the mayor is also visiting construction sites that aren't his, of course, many construction sites aren't his, so the "Gazela" isn't his, it's our joint project. And why do you blame it? That's good, and I'm glad they're all going around construction sites, and they're just helping to realize these projects. In that part, I think that's good. Also, as far as the concession discussion is concerned, Mrs Vojic-Markovic. No concession, as far as I know, is now being checked here, for these four months, we haven't given anyone. We have made an agreement, for example with Italians, in which we predict that they will invest 51% in construction, that they will build these facilities, power plants, a dozen or how many there are already, that our participation will be 49% in the profit-sharing, or income-sharing. In my opinion, that's not bad. So we didn't give anyone the concession to exploit themselves. At least, as far as I know. No one has a concession that they can exploit themselves. And as long as I'm a minister, we won't give it up. I agree with you - I would never give those resources. I'll try to change that. But if we don't have conditions, so were the highways, we had several significant offers on giving, I'm sorry that Mr. Ilic came out, I've thought a lot about it, but, you know, the conditions have to be created, you have to be interested in the one that gives the concession, to see that the state has laws that suit that and that the state benefits. If not, of course I'm not in favour of the concession. So, we haven't given anyone so far, and while I'm a minister, we won't give a concession. But we'll make arrangements. I think it is better to work with someone than not to do anything, so that it is not – nor a dog gives a bone to a gnaw, nor gives it to another. So much for these discussions so far, and I reserve the right to report again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58768	I thank the ministers. Mr. Lapcevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58769	I wanted to talk about this amendment that was adopted earlier. But I would like to comment briefly on what Mr. Minister said. In the debate in principle, I absolutely supported your rhetorical commitment to maintaining the resources that our country has in our possession and not giving these resources into any arrangements, whether these are concessions, together or otherwise. It's not about the state giving a concession to build power plants on Ibra, it's about going into business with Italians and, in principle, 49 of ours and 51 of them, we're investing together in building power plants. Nowhere, at least I have that information, it didn't come in that the state gives resources, one limited resource as a percentage of our participation in that company. A joint venture, a percentage half-half, was made between EPS and Italians, although the Italians have little more than we do. They invest the same money, or slightly less me and slightly more them, but no resource enters, no water resources. It doesn't go anywhere like something that's ours. We'll get half the money from the profits, I agree. And what about the resource? We used resources for all time, people. Where's our interest? Well, isn't it our interest to build that power plant and export 100% of the electricity or to use something for our needs to sell the rest? We're going to sell that green electricity at a much higher price than we're going to sell half that electricity at a higher price, which is already going to the Italians. We made a commitment to get that electricity produced on Ibra, to export it all to the Italians, we're going to get half of the profits, but what is it? What does that mean? We could have made state money, loans, that same power plant, so we could have a much bigger income. To me, it's a much more patriotic thinking than how it came to be. I believe you inherited that story. You know what, the needs of the development of today's humanity are based on the resources of food, water and energy, and who has these three things will be able to develop very independently in the future, and whoever doesn't have it, the question is what is his future. I don't think our water resources, our energy-generating resources can be anyone's, should be ours, using our needs, and even when we have surpluses in terms of our needs to be 100 percent state-owned, to make income, to export and to develop from it. There's no need for Canadians and Italians to come in, these and them. What, we don't have a chance to borrow 100 million, 200 or 300 million euros what do these ibar power plants cost? I'm sorry, we borrowed for these four years, took loans for more than 4.5 billion. What's 300 million to invest in these power plants that are apparently going to bring a lot more money? There doesn't need any philosophy and brains to know it's going to take a lot more money. In this sense, the absolute MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia believe that this matter, as far as the ibarian power plants are concerned, is absolutely not for the benefit of the state. There seems to be work done on some other criteria, not on the criteria of the Serbian state's need. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58770	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58771	Replica
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58772	You can from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58773	Do I have the right to a replica? The minister spoke to me, and he didn't answer my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58774	The minister answered your question and commented on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58775	He didn't answer my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58776	You have as much time as you want, you can ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58777	I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58778	Thank you. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58779	Thank you. Mr. Novakovic. I'll use it now to comment on what I wanted when you didn't give me the right to reply. The minister does not seem to have been informed until the end of what he has answered, because he was informed from what follows and what Mr. Skundric said, so it is said in this story about Ibra that the inhabitants of the region will only get dams and lakes, but not electricity. It is said otherwise that if Serbia from that energy to Ibra, where Italy will earn 80m euros, if Serbia would need two or three gigawatts of electricity, it would have to import it. So this is a story that sounds nice. I love it when the minister says he's very optimistic and full of energy, but the story is a little more hidden than they told you at this point, so if I had time to tell you about it. I'd like to return to this Article 23. In the previous article, we had licenses. Here in Article 1(2), point 4 of this Article, you stated that the applicant fulfils the prescribed conditions with regard to technical management, handling, maintenance of energy facilities, that is to say, the conditions regarding the number and the professional competence of the personnel to carry out the tasks for the maintenance of energy facilities, as well as the activities of the managers in those facilities. In Article 23, I am saying this because these two members overlap at point 4, in point 1, you say - the expertise referred to in Article 22 paragraph 1 of this Act is checked by passing an expert examination. We believe that our solution is better because we say – professional training in Article 22 paragraph 1 of point 4 of this Act for the maintenance of natural gas transport and distribution facilities, as well as the management tasks in those facilities are checked by passing an expert examination. So far, practice has shown that it is not necessary to give a licence to assess the expertise of the operators and maintainers in the production of electricity, and we have managed when we wrote this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58780	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58781	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, this is the second position of this same Article 23, and it reads in your Bill's proposal: "The expert exam is being passed before the committee educated by the minister", i.e. the head of the circuit body responsible for energy affairs for persons employed by an energy operator based in the AP territory. We continue to believe that Serbia is only one state and that it can prescribe that the same expert exam applies to all citizens anywhere they live within Serbia itself. That is why we believe it is necessary for the minister to prescribe what the expert exam will look like, as you also say, but we say that the expert exam is passed before the committee educated by the minister. If it's too far for someone to come, if that's why someone comes from the province, because we still have two provinces to take that test in the capital, then the minister can also educate the commission on the territory of autonomous provinces, but that in one place and under the same conditions all Serbian citizens have the right to take a professional exam. I think it's much more celery because I really think it's tearing up one single minister's jurisdiction about a professional exam is one way to decompose a country that you've already dispersed in a million parts and in a million ways, and this is one of those. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58782	Thank you, Mrs. Vojic-Markovic. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58783	To continue with what counterpart Vojic-Markovic said. So, if it's too far for someone to come from Saturday to Belgrade to pass the exam before the expert commission, it's just as far, Mr. Mrkonjic, someone from Prepolje and someone from Leskovec. Then why don't you make a provision of a law that says that the mayors of the municipal administrations will determine who the commission is, depending on where whoever lives and where he lives, so it'll be easier for everyone? Why doesn't the secretary or head of administration in Belgrade educate the commission? Are you going to tell me if it's because of the specificity of Vojvodina's jurisdiction, because of a law that's lex specialis? I'm sure you know that the government is also preparing a law on public property. It's just that there's still this pin in the coffin of Serbia and we're all going to break up and break up. That's all that's missing, to declare all the property on the territory of an autonomous province with property and autonomous province and good-bye, we've finished the discussion. The Republic of Serbia will have nothing more of its own, and from there until an open requirement for independence is half a step. You must take care of such things when it comes to writing and laws like this. This Article 23 works – it is okay, there is a province, so now that the commission is not educated by the minister for the entire territory of Serbia, let the secretary responsible from the territory of the AP Vojvodina do so. That, believe me, is not correct. You'd better accept our amendment, that the commission is being educated by the minister. Bring in a sublegal act on the basis of which the commission will also be defocused on certain parts of the territory, if you like it, but it must be a commission, a republican commission educated by the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58784	National MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic together submitted the 24th amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58785	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the draft energy law. In Article 24 paragraph 2, the words "15 days" are replaced by the words "30 days". This minimum prescribed time limit of 15 days, which the legislator has given to the energy operator for the removal of the deficiencies due to which his licence is temporarily withdrawn, can often be too short to remove any observed deficiencies in quality and permanent terms. The SRS considers that this minimum time limit should be extended to 30 days, making it significantly easier for the energy entity to work and increasing its chances of successfully removing the failures that could put the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia at risk permanently withdrawing its license, as set out in Article 4 of this proposal. This article shall provide for a way of obtaining a licence for the performance of energy activities, the withdrawal of a licence, the legal protection of entities in those proceedings. It is also prescribed that the licence is issued for 10 years, and for the production of electricity and heat production, the licence is issued for 30 years. Energy efficiency is too complex and serious. A minimum period of at least 30 days should be allowed for the energy subject before the temporary withdrawal of the licence in order to address all deficiencies. That's why I think you should accept this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58786	National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Delic, Vice President of the Assembly, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58787	As for the Ministry's decision not to accept this amendment, I think it's quite all right. There's been a technical error here. I made a real amendment to Article 35, and we talked about it in principle. Mr. Minister, by noding his head, has somehow given the belief that he will be changed. But what to do. This morning I saw it was a technical mistake. I'd just like to say one more minute about this article 35. It's something new that's being introduced, that previous consent. I don't think that's good because, in addition to 42 different permits, consent is opinion, this would be 43. The next thing I said in the principle debate is that there is no deadline in which this agreement is to be issued and there are no criteria for granting this consent, nor a regulation to specify the conditions and method of obtaining the relevant consent for small hydroelectric power plants to one megawatt. What to do, the wish was to delete that article on the 35th, but due to a technical error, you're right not to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58788	Thank you, Mr. Delucci. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I have submitted an amendment in front of the SRS to Article 26, paragraph 7, after saying "interruption" is added to the word "existence". The amendment is of a technical nature, due to the obvious technical failure, resulting from the expression "existence" of the sentence referred to in Article 26(7) of this proposal of the law. The example of my amendment is that this law is written in the EU, and you have only forwarded it to the members of the SRS for consideration. You have to bring it for Europe, and that's for sure. He's against the citizens of Serbia. We all know that energy is Serbia's number one development opportunity. After this adoption of the law by the ruling majority of you, this is the final collapse of the Republic of Serbia. By adopting this law, you've legalized even more energy sales. You know exactly what we've had examples of, and we already have examples of electricity sales. What happened to us – Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic? By forming the Committee of Auditors and when it came to an end, when it was already known that there was crime and corruption, it took 200,000 euros and covered it up. Not to mention selling natural gas and oil. I'll give you the latest example - sales at the Lazarec Colubary. Why, Mr. Minister, do you care? I know you won't stop at this. When some people came from the government care about lighting up crime and corruption in Kolubara Lazarevic. Actors and singers also appeared to have some badgers out there working in the Colubara. I guarantee you that in the papers in two weeks, it will be this, that even the son-in-law of some high-ranking football union official has a banger in Colubara. I'll give you an example, Mr. Minister. So far, 99% of Serbia's city's heat has not been able to get coal directly in Kolubara. For the first time, the city's cruise heat was purchased, 15 days ago, coal in Kolubara. Do you know how many of those 16,000 tons we've used to spend an annual pear heat, we've paid so far? So far it's cost 117 million dinars, when we got it directly. Now it costs 73 million dinars. The difference is 34 million. Mr. Minister, you see what can be done for 34 million dinars on one hotline, hot water and one substation in Serbia, without speaking for 10 years - 340 million dinars. I'll give you one more piece of information. Do you know that Serbia today has the lowest degree of energy efficiency in Europe. We're world champions in irrational energy consumption. In the principle debate, I heard lawmakers from the ruling majority say a sufficient amount of energy was not used in Serbia. Gentlemen, you are in power. Give and invest money, donations and help municipalities in Serbia - from solar to other energy. I'll give you an example. In the fishing spa, you all know the example of Dr. Katančević, Zoran Paunović of the SRS, as well as Momčel Duvnjak. You know very well that's where thermal water is used for patients. The temperature of that thermal water is 48 degrees, and the sewer is going 36 degrees. We proposed, headed by Dr Katancevic, and a professional team of Belgrade people, as well as a university professor, who made the project, and that water in the future, and the government should help go through exchangers and heat pumps. The power of total thermal energy is five megawatts and can be warmed up by six thousand people. The fishing river will be completely resolved by this. In the end, Mr. Minister, I invite you to examine and see this about the Fishing Bath, so that you can see how everything can be exploited by the natural resources of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, since you were not in the principle debate, the citizens of Serbia ask you, and I said, the price of gas cannot and cannot be collected, it must go down, that all citizens in Serbia have the same conditions of connection to natural gas. When I say the same conditions, I think it's allowed to all municipalities, all cities to question and seek strategic gasification partners. It cannot be the price of gas from 480 euros to 1260 euros, it must be the same, the same project conditions and all other conditions. That's what he did on a proposal from the SRS town of Kruševac. We've got the cheapest connection since four and a half years ago. The natural gas is 420 euros, plus 80 euros in VAT. Once again, please, there's a big crime around the gas. All Serbia's cities have different conditions to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58790	National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new section 5a with two new members of 26a and 26b. Mr. Stamenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58791	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think we can talk about this amendment one more time and remind ourselves of those solutions that have been offered. In order to provide material and other conditions for the protection, use, identification and improvement of goods of general interest and the protection of the environment in the local self-government unit on whose territory energy activity, public enterprises, companies, or other legal entities or entrepreneurs are required to pay compensation for the use of coal, water, oil or natural gas. The funds resulting from compensation under this Article would be used to finance the construction of buildings and other works to prevent and eliminate the adverse consequences of the works carried out in the construction of hydropower plants, i.e. thermal power plants or the opening of exploitation fields and the adverse consequences of the use of these facilities. The means of purpose referred to in Article 1(1) shall be the income of units of local self-government on whose territory is hydropower plant, thermal power plant or mining field, or units of local self-government on whose territory is submerged land for the purposes of hydropower. Amendments to Article 14(1) shall be drawn up closer by the amendment tabled. – municipalities that have suffered damages due to the exploitation of water, mineral raw materials, coal, oil and natural gas are again being compensated for use, should receive compensation for the use of goods of general interest in energy activity. These funds would address municipal and infrastructure problems in local communities and local environments, and those funds would not enter the budget of local self-government units. The 36 municipalities and cities of Southeastern Serbia and Serbia, where our most important energy facilities are at the same time the poorest marginal municipalities of Serbia, and the funds for the use of goods of general interest in the production of electricity, oil, coal and gas would exclusively be directed to re-cultivate exploitation fields, water streams, damaged infrastructures in recycled meat communities. The municipalities and cities directly exposed to damages, either hydroenergy facilities or other electricity objects, are: Piroth, Surdulica, Kladovo, Negotin, Majdanpek, Golubac, Velika Gradište, Požarjevac, Smederevo, Grocka, Palilula, Stari Grad, Savski Venac, Kukarica, Novi Belgrade, Zemun, Bela Church, Kovin, Pančevo, Stara Pazova, Indji, Novi Sad, Titelj, Žabljaj, Novi Vienna, Pećinci, Ruma, Vladimirci, Šabac, Obrenovac, Lazarovac and other places. We have since 1990, based on the Law on Payment and Guidance of Assets for the Use of goods of general interest in the production of electricity in the production of oil and natural gas under the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 1690, paying this fee. That fee's no big deal. We noted that HE "Gerdap" has a production of seven billion 164 gigabytes of electricity, and that all the fees that would be paid for rent, or compensation for using funds is only about 300 million kilowatts of electricity hours, which are not large funds. On the other hand, I would like to remind you, first of all, you, Mr. Minister, because your esteemed colleague and our associate Mr. Petar Skundric, according to this text that I am holding here and now to quote, in the adoption of the Mining Act, has declared himself in this high house and said this: "I really highly appreciate the suggestions that you have made in your name and the skills of municipalities and local communities." I have to say that the issue of water use fees in hydropower plants, as well as the cost of electricity generation, is not the subject of this law, therefore, the Mining Act, regulated by the Water Act, and 2.5% is charged for the production of electricity in hydropower plants, and 1.25% per kilowatt hour for thermal power plants and about 1.2 dinars for the exploitation of rock water per litre. I believe that your proposal should be considered in the context of the existing Water Act and in the context of the adoption of a new energy law and found a rational and fair solution in relation to the region you spoke of and in general in relation to the exploitation of water and other goods in the Republic of Serbia. That's when we announced that in this energy law, we would seriously consider this. I would just like to add, for the sake of the public, and also because of the participation of a large number of our MPs in the adoption of this law and because of this debate, which is being conducted with a large number of amendments to the following circumstances -- the Belgrade Political Extraordinary Fund organised together with the GIZ Agency from Germany, which also monitors energy efficiency not only in Europe, but everywhere in the world -- three forums -- in Subotica, in Nis and Belgrade, a debate on energy efficiency and the systems that we have in Serbia today. A joint declaration has been drawn up, to say, or a statement on this, a comparative review of the characteristics of energy enterprises in Serbia and the EU, or in the world. If it is about property, this law and these issues must be resolved, we have all the companies owned by the state and are given to use as enterprises, that is, those assets... (President: Excuse me, Mr. Stamenkovic, but if you have an even longer speech, I would like to interrupt the session now, so you proceed at 15.00 hours. All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58792	Thank you. We'll record the time. Based on article 87, I've been setting a break for an hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. Mr. Stamenkovic will have the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58793	We continue work in the afternoon session. He was given the right to the word of MP Sinisha Stamenkovic, who is now right to continue speaking as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58794	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, it is my desire to complete the presentation given in relation to the proposal for the adoption of amendments to Article 26a and (b). The most important thing is to meet all the holders of this work with a comparative overview of the characteristics of the energy company in Serbia and the world. When it comes to a property called company property, energy companies in Serbia are the fact that property is owned by the state and is given to use the company. It can be taken away at any moment. The acquired assets and rights are transferred to state property. When it comes to an energy company that is paramount to our company everywhere in the world of property is owned by a company, it is clearly delimited from the property of a state or local self-government. When it comes to the very demarcation of property with us, that distinction is not clear. The list of state assets is not publicly available, and when it comes to energy companies in the world, the distinction of assets is also a list of public registers. So it's completely demarcated. When it comes to the form of a company, an energy company, in our country, are public undertakings or joint-owned companies of the state and of a foreign partner, with minimal participation of small shareholders. When it comes to the form of a company that's in the world, then it's a stock company most often listed on the public stock market. Stocks can also be owned by the state. When it comes to the activities that are registered with energy companies in our country, most often it is an activity of general interest, that is how we declare it, as well as this law, and when it comes to a company in the world, it is then a commercial activity that performs some public authority. The work of public interest as we call it is for almost all energy activities. Almost, there is no action that has no public interest. When it comes to companies in the world, it is only an activity where the right to access a third party is prescribed. So, as a special kind of entry into that system, which is now defined by the Business Society Act. When it comes to obtaining the right to exercise public interest, our company has been handed over, i.e. we handed this public interest over to the company most often when it was established by the company itself. By law, legal acts, sublaws, or most often lately, what other fellow Members of Parliament have spoken about through the Agency etc. As regards companies abroad, i.e. other comparative enterprises, the acquisition of the right to exercise public interest has been acquired in a public tender in a correct or competitive procedure. When it comes to the public good that is defined here and which is discussed here under the Constitution that sets it publically, we as a state have made it clear that it is owned by the state, all public goods are owned by the state. When it comes to energy companies in Europe, it is then publicly owned, the state manages public goods on behalf of and on behalf of the same public. When the debate is being held on other issues related not only to the Energy Act, but also to the previous Mining Act, concerning the Business Society Act, we have also defined the property of our companies relating to the rights of businesses to benefit from these public goods. Our companies have also been used by the state with little or no compensation. When it comes to companies in the world, they have acquired it in a concession procedure with a market fee. When it comes to the acquisition of land from private property, our businesses receive a recognised general right of expropriation in order to carry out their activities of general interest, and that is precisely what was laundered expropriations over the property, it speaks of the permanent loss of interest our people lost, or our citizens lost by expropriating the best and most qualitative properties, and no fair compensation has been made on the basis of the compensation for the use of resources. In the world, it's just shopping on the market. If there were market purchases in all electrical-energy facilities many of these parcels, or many fields, or many of the works would not have been bought at this price determined by the state, or at the cost of expropriation. When it comes to the market position of our energy companies, we claim that they are in a monopoly or in a monopoly, that high entry costs are in the very branch of activity. When it comes to other foreign businesses anywhere in the world, they are oligopol, with the low cost of entering the branch itself. That difference has just given us the right, that is, to try to return through this amendment what is prescribed and is not justly compensated, and it will be used all the time as this electrical-energy facility lasts, whether it's a hydropower plant, or a mine, or anything else from that system. When it comes to the management of these companies itself, the Management Board of these companies shall make a decision with the consent of the relevant national authorities. What is the world experience in this is that all decisions are made and managed by the board of directors, but with a significant involvement of the public of the civil sector that we talked about earlier, that is, in the first part of the session. When it comes to leadership with us are state-owned, practically the state administration is the founder appointed directors often to lower levels of management, and the length of the mandate is not clearly defined. When it comes to other companies that are compatible with ours, then the Management Board shall appoint the Director and the duration of the term of office shall be determined by contract as well as the remuneration of the manager's personal income. When it comes to prices, we have prices under state control, and when it comes to electrical-energy facilities or businesses in the EU, then it is a commercial formation of prices with a minimum state intervention in clearly defined cases. What I especially want to point out is the creditworthiness of these companies. With us, it is minimal or no dependent on the state, and outside it is absolute according to its commercial capacity to respond to those needs it has both in investment and in investment maintenance, and in paying fees. When it comes to investment in our country itself with a state guarantee or directly from the public budget, all investment in foreign companies is only with commercial financing. The approval of investments is carried out in accordance with the national energy strategy and the spatial plan, which is the same legal force as the rules on the protection of private assets and the protection of the environment. When it comes to such companies that are compatible with ours according to the request of a commercial investor, with the fulfilment of rules on spatial planning and environmental impact. What was most important to us when we proposed this level of amendment that would resolve the issue of expropriated areas, i.e. the permanent loss of citizens' existence, is an independent regulation that must exist on these issues, and it is with us, with the agreement of the state administration and for the most part of its activity, referred to as the consent of the state administration while all over the world there is limited activity where the right of access to a third party is prescribed or the preservation of public interest. I would also like to point out in this proposal for an amendment that I believe the Government should have adopted, which refers to the tax treatment of our companies and electricity companies in the world. We have tax treatment that is related to discretion if there is a foreign partner, foreign tax treatment can be agreed between the state and that foreign partner. When it comes to companies in the world, it is in accordance with the law and without discrimination, or discretion of the tax authority. It's just talking about wherever we're expropriating wherever we're supposed to charge a fee, or a bill for a kilowatt of electricity produced, whether it's from an electric power plant, whether it's from a hydroelectric power plant, whether it's from oil or whether it's from coal, we haven't made a fair fee. So much and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58795	National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58796	I'll be brief. I don't think it's a bad idea. The idea of the promoter of this amendment is good, with us here in reasoning, that is, this Opinion of the Government, where in fact under Article 26a, where a member, or proposal, should have been written, stands as an explanation for which the amendment is rejected. We understood what Mr. Stamenkovic wanted. It seems to me that the proposer may have a basis to refuse this, but they didn't fully understand the message, the idea and the idea of who suggested the amendment. As for the compensation that local self-government's revenues would be, it's not about whether there's regulation, it's about the fees being made. It exists in the country, but the problem is that these are not local self-government revenues. This matter is regulated by government regulations. Any government regulation relating to the use, or compensation for the use of water or anything else, was written by Mladjan Dinkic for a time after another minister. Every regulation ends, you know what kind of member? These are the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, no single dinar who, truth be told, moves through regulation to kill in Serbia from public enterprises doesn't return to local self-government. The idea of this amendment is good, because local self-government and local communities suffer eventually, or "damage". It seems to us that you did not understand it, think well, because there is no legal regulation that regulates it in this way to return some of the compensation funds to local self-government, in order to solve specific problems, i.e. projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58797	One minute and 50 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58798	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Article 27 deals, i.e. section, with energy permits. The opinion of the SNS was that, in addition to everything mentioned in this article, it was necessary to obtain an energy permit within the meaning of this law for energy buildings which are built on the basis of the concession granted for the construction of an energy facility. The SNS believes that in front of this attitude it should have added a position that reads – the energy facilities that are being built for the distribution of thermal energy are not required to obtain an energy permit within the meaning of this law. I do not see the reason why the bill promoter does not accept the amendment, because we find it incomprehensible that for small energy facilities built for the distribution of heat energy, it is necessary to ask for an energy permit. These facilities of a type of hot water, heat-water connections, overcharged and dedicated cells, are sufficient to obtain an energy permit from energy-generating facilities, power one megawatt and more, and this is already foreseen in Article 8 where it says, objects for the production of heat-energy power one megawatt and more. Mr. Minister, I didn't want to use the right to reply because in the context of my time and the time of the parliamentary group I could express a part of the views. I agree with you that you didn't want to change anyone and that it might be a good thing for you. After an affair only in the energy sector, which was media-discovered months ago, not state secretaries, not ministry officials, everyone was supposed to resign collectively. This good feature of yours that you didn't want to replace anyone by the capacities of the ministries, here's when we get to the next law on changes and additions to the Air Traffic Act, we'll see what kind of personnel this sector is about, and even when the law was in the process, we talked about it, and you're aware of the situation. This good quality of yours does not justify the fact that in this area we have affairs of a type, an affair that a newspaper house, or media house, discovered in the previous period. Indeed, you did not give me an answer to the question – who will bear the consequences of all that the Energy Agency has done in the period from 2008 to 2011, in terms of the adoption of all acts, of all procedures, of the amount of compensation and everything else until 2011 and for which it had no authority. T-axis is a really big failure in the work of this sector, they say once again, you are not in charge of all of this at the very least. It's a good thing you think mining and energy have to be together. They're nowhere in the world as separated as they are in Serbia. Can't, I repeat again, come here to be one of the ministers in charge of coal thermal power plants, and another the minister of thermal power plants here. After all, the president of a parliamentary group has warned as many times as he has been here, and you have been present, that no budget rebalance has been made for the ministries that have been attached. The way money is transferred and transferred from budget to budget is truly incomprehensible. That was supposed to be rewritten. The Serbian train is going well. It's not your fault and you have good thinking. Your good thinking doesn't delay part of the consequences that are being made in this sector. It's really problematic that you have the right opinion as well as we do, but the practice of applying other things is that you're carrying the blame automatically, as soon as you agree to be a resolute minister and these areas. You have one opinion, and you have accepted to be a resolute minister. It sounds a bit contradictory in itself, apart from what I really think you have the same opinion as it is, which you have stated that this is an incomprehensible thing, that these two areas are resolute ministries and part of the ingenuity, just as it is about the lines of electricity, that to one point is responsible is one distributor, to the other point another distributor, and what happens in that case if someone goes into someone else's area. So is the Energy Act, as is the area divided into mining and energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58799	Two minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojić – Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic together submitted the 32nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP Milan Lapcevic, with you not having two minutes for the amendment, but for the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58800	As you say. (President: I'm not saying it, I'm saying it's the Rules of Procedure. As you quote the Rules of Procedure, it is not disputed. Therefore, in the proposal for a law, Article 32 provided that the energy permit is to be issued by a solution within 60 days, which was an extension compared to the existing deadline currently in force in the 2004 law. We felt that it was necessary to simplify procedures at all, to cut deadlines, to propose that third deadline of 30 days. It is quite enough for the Ministry's administration to process the application and issue a permit within 30 days, provided that it fulfils all the conditions. So I also thank the Ministry for accepting the amendment. In general, the ministry and the minister themselves had a very correct relationship with all the applicants of the amendments, developed them, tried to find the best possible formulation. By the fact that the amendments that were written were really meaningful and absolutely in line with the spirit of the law to be what, of course, I said to the people who did. There are some amendments that have not been accepted, which have indeed been meaningful. Okay, the concept of law was made in 2004. The only serious change in this law, as far as a few things are concerned, were these deadlines and this is this new energy agreement for objects under one megawatt and privileged producers over 10 megawatts to 30 megawatts. These are the only serious changes in this law. The basis of this law was given back in 2004 when the law was passed, and it is also in some way commendable to the then Minister and Ministry and the people who participated in the creation of this law, that it is indeed a quality law and that it should be upgraded over time, but it should not be destroyed all that was once done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58801	Two minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58802	The same thing, I won't take a lot of time, the same thing as the issue of licences by the agency related to Article 32, which says that an energy permit is issued by a solution within 60 days of the day of application, if the conditions laid down by this law and regulations laid down under this law are met. What happens to those who don't meet the conditions? It doesn't stand anywhere, it doesn't even stand in the bill. So, what happens to those who don't meet the conditions? This only applies to those who meet the conditions. It was also related to the work of licensing agencies. Therefore, there must be no indetermination in the provisions of the law, so that subsequent legal proceedings for the non-response of the agency, i.e. the ministry in this case, are taken. On what basis can it be entered into some procedure with the Ministry or the Agency, if there is no clear definition of what to do with cases in which applications for authorisation, i.e. licences and requests for an energy authorisation are rejected? So I don't want to hang around anymore, I've explained enough about the agency, the same thing as the ministry, and it's only about the license and the energy licenses.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58803	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58804	Mr. Minister, we spoke in principle about this member. However, just to read you the explanation of my amendment – the amendment is not accepted for reasons that are already accepted in the same text by the DSS parliamentary group. Mr. Minister, here is the absence of logic and this is absolutely inadmissible, because hypothetically every member of parliament can submit a completely identical amendment and one cannot be adopted, it must be stated that the amendments that you and you have submitted have been adopted, etc. What's going on and what can happen in voting day? I have to point this out because, after all, I am now protecting the dignity of the Assembly, its authority and, ultimately, the integrity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58805	The People's MP, who holds the presidency in charge of this, and I ask that you do not deceive the public, it is about amendments that are different in content. In your allegations and in your defence of your amendment, please do not compromise the reputation of the Assembly and do not claim the truth about the procedure for adopting the amendments. The amendments to Article 32 are different by content. In each of the cases where different MPs submitted amendments identical to the content, all amendments were accepted in the voting day, if decided by the National Assembly, and by the promoters. In this case, amendments to Article 32 are different by content and can not be adopted at the same time, but by the one agreed either by the Proposer or the National Assembly in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58806	Obviously, ma'am, you're not listening. The amendment is not accepted for reasons that the same text already accepts the amendment. So the ruling majority MPs will vote first in voting day to accept the amendment, and then vote afterwards not to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58807	People's MP, they won't vote because the amendment you're talking about has become an integral part of the bill. I now warn you that in the argument you use for your amendment, leave out the lies, deceptions and facts that have nothing to do with the procedure in question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58808	This is the only place you seem to be cheating, ma'am. Mr. Minister, you weren't here this morning, we've raised one question about what's going on on the administrative line. Until 20 minutes ago, the situation in Kosovo, Mitrovica, was peaceful.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58809	I now warn you of article 106 and the obligation to speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58810	I just need 30 seconds, this is a very important question.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58811	People's MP, the rules are either broken or not broken, they can't break the rules a little bit, and they don't break a bit. So, please, article 106 and agenda theme. This is your second warning, after which I will be forced to give you criminal measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58812	Mrs. Komic, Kosovo and Metohija are a matter of first-class importance to this Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58813	National MP, please do not disrespect the subject of Kosovo and Metohija with such an attitude, which you believe you have the right to violate other rules, because you want to talk about an issue that is equally important to all MPs. Article 106. – agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58814	Ma'am, unfortunately, you're the chairman, but you're the last person I'd ask to speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58815	People's messenger, I give you your first warning. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Đurić, Milica Vojić – Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58816	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have submitted an amendment to Article 33, and Article 33 speaks of the need when an investor needs to apply for an amendment of the energy permit. We have a little bit more precisely formulated that member of the law, where we have stated that when applying for the 1st position of this member, the energy licensee does not pay any additional fees other than administrative fees. In fact, when an energy permit is issued, the investor pays a certain fee of which the amount is determined on a percentage basis in relation to the amount of the investment. We believe that if there is any change in data, so it is necessary to issue an amended energy licence, that it is not necessary for the investor to pay that kind of tax again. You stated in your explanation that this is not treated by these laws, but by the Law on Administrative Taxes. I think it should stand clearly defined here that he won't have that kind of obligation, except for the administrative fee used to cover some other costs. I sincerely hoped that this amendment would be accepted and I urge you once again to consider it and accept it, because it makes it easier for investors to get permission. Now that I've heard from you, I'd like to point out a few more things, which I was also talking about in the principle debate, and it concerns the need to simplify the administrative procedure when it comes to the issue of these types of permits. You, in the light of the law, have stated that this law eliminates some administrative obstacles. That's when I said, and I'm also saying now that this law in certain parts of that administrative procedure is making it more complicated. It is good that you have accepted the amendment to Article 32 that we have submitted, where you have returned this 30-day period to issue an energy permit, because we think it is an appropriate deadline and that the ministry can issue a permit within that time limit. However, I think that you should have accepted this amendment to Article 33, as well as the amendment to Article 35, which also complicates administrative procedures, which refers to giving consent to the Ministry of Objects up to one megawatt, which has not been the case so far, with the reason that the ministry should control whether it will be optimally exploited capacities. I think any investor who wants to build a hydropower plant, of course, will make optimal use of capacities in their interest, so I think it's too complicated a procedure. We have submitted the amendment, and later on, my colleague Lapcevic will talk about it, so I think you could have accepted these two amendments, because that would really simplify this administrative procedure, and I'm afraid that in certain parts it is further complicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58817	Used 50 seconds from the MP's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 33rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 34. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Time available for three minutes and 10 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has proposed to be in Article 34. The bill introduces a solution under which the government, on a proposal from the ministry, decides to call a public tender and that the decision must include conditions relating to the protection of cultural monuments in case works are carried out near these monuments, of course, in order to preserve Serbian cultural heritage. What the SRS is interested in, Mr Minister, about the announced negotiations or the continuation of negotiations with the so-called The republic of Kosovo, where the question of paying the debts of the so-called...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58819	National MP, you are required to listen when I remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, Article 106 is an obligation that is the same for each MP, which is to speak about the agenda. When you talk only about the agenda, I won't interrupt and remind you of it. You've taken advantage of the time of the parliamentary group for a minute. If you want to keep talking about the agenda, go ahead. People's MP, you are required to listen to the chairman when he reminds you that you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or when he reminds you that, taking care of the order of the sitting, in accordance with Article 27, fulfilling his obligations, he reminds you of the provisions that every MP in the House of Commons has taken from his mind. That's completely understandable. But Article 106 is the obligation of Members of Parliament to speak about the agenda and the obligation of the chairman to impose criminal measures on MPs who refuse to accept their obligation under Article 106. Here, you have two minutes and 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58820	Mrs. Komic, I think that you were allowed with the mind that your obligation, as well as any MP, is to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, especially when it comes to KIM. Today, Mr. Minister, the Beta agency is at 15.00 hours... .
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58821	National MP, second warning. Stick to the agenda theme. Article 106. People's MP, I ask you not to throw away or promote rudeness in the session of the National Assembly. The article of 106 is clear to me and you, that it may not be clearer. The Messenger of the people is obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda. The chairman, on the basis of Article 27, is obliged to take care of the session's order. I gave you a warning, most well-intentioned. If your strategy is to make incidents at the meeting of the National Assembly, if your strategy is to throw away and violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, MP Sreto Perić, MP Tomislav Ljubenović, therefore, if your strategy is to prove that the only thing you want today in the afternoon is to violate the Rules of Procedure and to give the measure, I am at your disposal. But I hope it's not and that you'll talk about the agenda. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58822	Mr. Minister, in 15 hours and seven minutes, the Beta Agency brought the following news: "Kosovo Police Special Forces again today, with the use of weapons, have taken over the administrative crossing. "There appear to be injuries and injuries...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58823	People's Messenger, article 106, I give you the first warning. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Milan Lapčević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58824	This is one of the important differences compared to the previous law. In fact, the difference is that so far, for the construction of power plants for the production of electricity to one megawatts using water as the primary energy resource, which is not an energy license, it is introduced that prior consent of the ministry is needed before obtaining an energy permit, in order to ensure that these facilities are built technically and economically optimally exploiting the potential of energy. The explanation of the ministry was that there were cases that individual investors had stepped down in their projects to build mini hydropower plants from those installed and projected forces towards water resources, and that they had built smaller power plants, which also affected the optimal use of hydropower existing in a given area, and therefore introduced this additional agreement which had not been valid so far, in order to convince the ministry that investors would benefit from the full potential of their own mini power plants. We have proposed, given that there are no precise data on how much this potential is in a particular area, as a basis for issuing permits for mini power plants so far there has been this 1989 cadastre that has changed a lot over the past 22 years and certainly cannot be relevant as a criterion for whether someone has met the criteria to make optimal use of a certain source. Yesterday it was said to the Committee on Industry by the ministry that it no longer measured on the basis of which licences are issued but a general project, which also contains mandatory measurement by the hydrometeorological institute of the total water average potential in a year. If so, I think there was room for this amendment to be formulated differently and to say that it is in line with the last measured potential on a given field, which provides a hydrometeorological institution or water section. In our amendment, it is proposed to be at least 70% of the capacity measurements, because, you know, this measurement is a very relative thing. Sometimes you have a dry year so you can't use 50%, sometimes that's not the case, so every investor will make sure that the most optimal use of a certain potential, so it won't go too far into that other extreme – to put on a big turbine without being able to make optimal use of its work because it invested a lot of money in it. On the other hand, he won't want to put too small, so there's more water and he can't make full use of it. That's why I think it made sense for this 35th member to formulate differently. The Industry Committee adopted your text yesterday, which says the ministry will decide on non-discriminatory criteria or give consent whether to use potential effectively and rationally. I think there's still a lot of room left for people who work at the ministry to evaluate, based on some immeasurable criteria, whether something optimal is used or not, which, on the other hand, leaves the possibility of possible manipulations and, God forbid, corruption. That is why I think that in this article 35th and in this amendment it was necessary to resolve this more precisely, so that tomorrow we would not come into a situation to say – it is not optimal exploitation, because someone in the ministry has estimated that it is not optimal exploitation. I think there was room for a much more concrete solution to this article, to say that anyone who wants to build hydroelectric power plants, has to bring in a general project with measurements, and that according to this, the facility is doing, and that in that sense, he doesn't need any consent from the ministry, simply confirms that he sold the general project, with all that is necessary and that it's enough, so that a man starts building. This way, we'll have time to decide at his request for the ministry's consent, however, the deadline for its release is 30 days, but in any case anywhere where the human factor can explicitly measure whether something used is optimal, or not leaves the possibility with suspicion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58825	Three minutes and 45 seconds used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? The 35th amendment was filed by MP Kenan Hajdarevic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58826	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Liberal Democratic Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 35, and as my colleague Lapcevic has said, it is a member who introduces one additional responsibility of the ministry in relation to the earlier Law, still valid on energy, which is that the power to give consent, before giving a building permit to power plants, power to one megawatt. With this amendment, we asked for the introduction of some steering criteria so that the Ministry could adequately give that consent. Although the Government has not accepted this amendment, I must welcome the intensification of the ruling majority, i.e. the government that has given the amendment through the Industry Committee, which is similar to this amendment, which I have proposed, I think it is an amendment that may, in an even more effective manner, regulates this jurisdiction, because it gives a legal deadline, until the ministry has to give that consent. I would also like to take the opportunity to once again, Mr. Minister, ask some questions that have been heard in the principle debate and today in the debate in the morning, according to the amendments, and regarding the "Broedarovo 1" and "Broedarevo 2". Why does it matter? Therefore, not because of us MPs here, but because of the citizens who are watching this assembly, who are talking to us, constantly looking for answers to the questions they are asking, i.e. doubts and doubts about the process of issuing energy permits and many other permits given to the firm Rev, for the construction of these two hydropower plants, i.e. Brodarevo 1 and Brodarevo 2. Why does it matter? I think it's also important because of the very idea of using renewable energy sources, because we can't take a single step that's going to compromise this idea of using renewable energy sources in the eyes of citizens. Or we can't go into the process, call the construction of these hydropower plants freely, if the local community is absolutely against it. Citizens of the Brodarevo local community are against it, citizens who need to be taken away from the country, or whose country is about to sink, dissatisfied with the price offered to them, the Islamic community in Serbia is dissatisfied, i.e. it does not allow that to happen because of the cemetery that should be immersed. These are all problems that have not been solved and we cannot just watch how to satisfy a potential investor, and that citizens who should benefit most from it are dissatisfied. That's where the questions and doubts are asked. How did it come and how it was obtained, that is, what does the environmental impact assessment for the "Broederovo 1" and "Broederovo 2" hydropower plant say? What about the water conditions provided by the Water Directorate? Furthermore, the legality of the adoption of a spatial plan of the municipality of Prepolje is suspected, in which way it is done. What about the spatial plan of the Municipality of Sjenica, since one part and the municipality of Sjenica should be submerged by this hydropower plant "Brodevo 1"? Also, we don't know what's wrong with the consent of the Serbs, because the huge surface that's under the woods should also be submerged by these hydropower plants. These are all questions that citizens are looking for and, most importantly, citizens doubt the individual steps that your ministry has taken, not specifically yours, but the Ministry of Energy that existed at the time. For the sake of transparency, you must make it clear to the citizens of Brodarev and Prepolje what is done, what will be done, that without the consent of the local community we must not enter into any process of building these hydropower plants, because in this way we will compromise the idea of using renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58827	It was used two minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mico Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58828	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the Ministry, if you look at article 36. The draft law and amendment to Article 36 is that, which the SNS has tabled, there is indeed no argument or fundamentally changes what you wanted to achieve with this member, which is the position of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, except the context for you to say in Mr. Minister's position that the Agency is a regulatory body. I remind you that the current Energy Act was passed in 2004. You've copied this article from the current Energy Act. You forgot that the Constitution changed in 2006, that the Public Agency Act came into force in 2005. The agencies can't be a regulatory body. There is no law in the legal system setting out the way for the establishment, functioning of so-called regulatory bodies that you refer to in the proposal for this law. The Agency for Energy can only operate as a public agency and, by amending and changing the whole of Article 36, we have tried to legally fix it, not to change anything in the way of regulation in the work or the establishment of agencies. If you compare the situation, neither our legal system knows this situation, nor the parallel law knows this situation that you are telling us that the agency is a regulatory body. There is no reason not to accept the amendment and I am telling you that I have the feeling that members of the 36nd to 52nd of this proposal of the Energy Act relating to the work and business of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia have been partially copied from the old law and that the fact of the Constitution has been forgotten, in the meantime, the adoption of the Constitution and the law on public agencies. It doesn't make sense not to accept the amendment, it only defines and perfectly completes this area and states what the energy agencies are, that they are public agencies, not some regulatory bodies that you use in legal provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58829	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58830	Mr. Minister, when you had predicted the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia as an independent legal entity functionally independent of any state authority, then it was necessary to fully regulate the objectives of the establishment of the agency. In order to ensure that the objectives of the organisation of this agency are more fully covered, I suggested that, in Article 36(1), the aim of the Agency be added, in addition to the promotion and development of the electricity market, to monitor that market and to control that market. I believe that, in addition to improving and directing the development of the electricity and natural gas market, as you have suggested, the agency needs to deal with a whole range of activities, which are: creating a methodology for determining the cost of electricity and natural gas, issuing and withdrawing licences, monitoring the movement of energy prices on the market, controlling the entire set of commercial and other business data supplied to fully and adequately carry out all the tasks of its competence. How this proposal fully complies with Article 46. The bill requires that you accept this amendment. In the end, Mr. Minister, I want you to answer what is currently going on in Kosovo because the information funds have been transferred to the scene of the shooting. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58831	People's messenger, I give you your first warning. The violation of the provisions of article 106 and the intention to speak beyond the subject of the agenda requires the punishment of giving the first warning. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58832	Article 37(3) The draft law – the President of the Council represents and represents the Agency, which manages the work of the Council, decides on issues from the work of the Agency. Then why do we need an agency employee, what do we need an agency, enough to have a board for the agency. You've achieved everything against the Public Agency Act, Mr. Minister, where the President of the Council cannot have the authority of the Director of the Agency. You've predicted all of this in attitude three, contrary to the Law on Public Agencys. I say once again, this is another series of 15 members of the old law, which came before the Public Agency Act. So you're giving the President of the Council all possible powers. He is also President of the Council and Director, which is contrary to the law, with the Constitution and is indeed incorrect and will have consequences too if you do not accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58833	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58834	Article 38 deals with the election and way of working of the Council and our proposal is that the Commission has five members, one of which is a representative of the Government, two representatives of the National Assembly, and on a proposal from the competent committee and one representative of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and one representative of the Union. We propose an amendment in a different way to select members of the competition commission, which is suitable for such a significant position and place as is the Agency for the Energy Sector and automatically on very high importance, as is the energy sector in each of us, including in our society. In a proposal by the proposings, and related to the commission, there are no representatives of the National Assembly, no representatives of the economy, which makes the procedure not public and leads to full dependence on the will of political parties forming power or forming a government. It is particularly impossible to determine what prominent experts are, whether those who have been working in the state energy sector for 15 years. In the state sector, only prominent experts can be. Can only they be prominent experts? Are experts working in other businesses and not just in state-owned enterprises? Is there an expert in this area? It is likely that there is and therefore the SNS proposal, in order for the composition of this committee to be serious and, among other things, resembled, that the Commission has five members elected by the National Assembly, which is in charge of the Energy Act, which is in charge, among other things, of the adoption of the strategy and of the adoption of the programme on a proposal from the Government and of all other relevant activities related to this area. It means that these representatives come in on a proposal from the board, be a union representative and that the Chamber of Commerce be represented in this area with one member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58835	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58836	Members of the Council are elected by the National Assembly. It is so logical that the National Assembly also determines their incomes. About an hour or two ago, I talked about it and I didn't mention names, but I did a comparative analysis of receiving members of the Council of this agency in the previous period, an increase in this part of 33%, from a situation that may be several times higher and receiving from your ministerial salary due to the whole situation and contradictions in relation to the bill. If the National Assembly chooses this Council of the Agency, then it is logical that the National Assembly in the receiving work decides on their incomes and that it is done in this home, not in the way you have suggested. Given the situation that the agency is a public agency, that the ministry has the ability to monitor, that all of this is hijacked and that in agencies of this type and similar we have incomes that are dramatically higher than in another state sector and non-tolisic growth in the price of services that automatically affect the standard of all citizens, all citizens are involved in this, the automatic lack of investment in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58837	The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 41. The draft energy law discusses the mandate and the termination of the term of office of members of the Energy Agency Council. The one who proposed a member of the law like this could freely compete for the Nobel Prize. What is in the position of 1st of this bill? It says that the mandate of the president of the Agency lasts for five years, two members have a total of four, not counting the president, two members have a three-year term and two members have a four-year term. We have suggested that the president of the Agency has a five-year term and that members have a four-year term. You said it wasn't effective and it wasn't good because it needed continuity. Now let me explain. It's like if Mirko Cvetkovic had a four-year term, half the ministers had a three-year term in office and half had a four-year term. That's completely pointless. If so, might this agency help residents in Paskovec near Loznica to solve problems, where more than 37 households in the narrow zone and around a hundred in the wider area not have the opportunity to have an orderly supply of electricity, although "Electrodrinje" from Loznica is trying, but there are not enough funds, will the agency be in a position to help citizens solve this problem? Mr. Minister, does today look like March 17th, 2004?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58839	National MP, article 106 obliges you to speak on the agenda. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58840	Yeah, I'm talking about the agenda. And then, on March 17, 2004, we had some energy problems that we still have today, and they didn't... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58841	People's MP, I gave you a warning, and now I give you my first warning. Article 106 clearly states that the MP is obliged to talk about the agenda, and the member who obliges me clearly says that if, despite the warning, the MP refuses to speak about the agenda, I am obliged to give a warning. Please, about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58842	I'm way ahead of myself here to say what the subject of the agenda is, but I think this Rules of Procedure, from first to last, obliges you to say what's going on here in the Assembly today.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58843	People's messenger, I give you a second warning. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Milos Aligrudić, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58844	Article 27. The way this session is conducted, in my opinion, is not adequate. I have the right to state the reasons why I think it is, so please listen to me. I think the circumstances under which today's debate on the Energy Act, which is extremely important to all of us, is simply not appropriate. I think those who are organising a session of the Assembly, and you are currently in the role of someone who is chairing and replacing the President of the Assembly at the moment, must have a hearing for the moment we are in. In fact, it's about the second time in 24 hours, the Shiplars are taking over the so-called. border crossing. It's just a fact that can't be ignored. If you can't get through the debate to get through that element, then that debate needs to be interrupted. That's my suggestion. And if we can't talk in a normal way about the law, and we can't talk about what's going on and what's going on outside this building, which is hundreds of miles south, but also for the public and for all the people who are interested in the fate of the state, there are. I just don't think we can work this way like nothing's going on. I respect everything, and the fact that the law is on the agenda and procedure and everything else. My appeal is, at least stop the session and see if we can call something else, some other kind of conversation in this home on that subject, so we can pick up where we left off. Otherwise, if your opinion is that this can go well, the right to tell you, we will not continue to take part in the debate on these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58845	National MP, you have not explained the violation of Article 27, except by your reasoning, you suggest that I violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I thank you for that suggestion. As I have not yet violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will not from now on. Once we've agreed beyond the rules, that we'll negotiate the rules, then there's no more procedure. There are no negotiations on the rules. Members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are quite clear. This session will run in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as long as the obligations laid down in Article 27 apply. I thank you anyway. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, would you like to discuss the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I hope, Mrs. Komic, that you will allow me to explain that in two minutes. Indeed on behalf of the SRS, most well-intentioned, given the gravity of the situation on KIM...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58847	People's MP, you can't talk about the same thing twice. National MP Milos Aligrudic explained that he believes that he is in accordance with Article 27, where I violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you want to say that on behalf of the SRS. Please, and I'm warning you now, stop breaking the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You're bound to respect it, and I'm obliged to apply it. Article 103 makes it clear that there is no repetition of the provisions already indicated that they have been violated. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Can I speak for two minutes, how much does the Rules of Procedure allow me?) The Rules of Procedure allow me two minutes. I'm sorry, but the Rules of Procedure allow me to do that. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, we leave you with the esteemed Mrs. Comic, so while the people of KIM die, you talk about the law. People's messenger, I give you a second warning. (Milan Avramovic, from the place: How can you? How can you not be ashamed? )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58851	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You are right, the rules are rules, but given the gravity of the situation and everything else, on behalf of your parliamentary group, I ask that, at least for Thursday, you ensure that the ministers and the government are present, in that regular term for last Thursday, and that we use it before that annual vacation, and given the current situation. I won't be too long, Mr. Minister, in this area. Article 42 is also in the field of agency work. I'm just going to give you one amazing example. And your goodwill that has been used in every address you have, that you will accept all the good amendments, has no reason to, on Article 42 of the Law, in paragraph 3. 4) that says so, in the bill of law. So it's about the president and members of the agency's council. It says – if, without reason, it refuses or fails to perform the duties of the president, or a member of the council for a period of at least three months continuously, or a period of at least six months with interruptions during one year. Mr. Minister, are you writing any new labour laws? Did these people work for three years to put a point like this into law? Is this possible, Mr. Minister? We have proposed, in accordance with the Labour Act, an amendment that you have not accepted. Then you say we have something against you. No, we have something against these made and written amendments. Article 42(3) point 4 clearly proves that. So, three months as a member of the council or president of the council, I don't have to respond to my job. By the way, I can perform my duty unprofessionally, irresponsiblely and unconsciously, and no one will do anything about it. You are declaring yourself to be expert on the team, and nowhere in Article 42 of this bill, which deals with violations, or decisions by the president and members of the council, you are not taking the opportunity to allow people who are unconscious and unprofessional to come to such functions to do what they want to do, but you will allow them three or six months to do what they want to do, and then you will replace them. Serbia has no time to wait for someone's unconscious actions of three or six months, from receiving 300,000 dinars, Mr. Minister. The employees of this agency receive 150,000 dinars. Council members from 150,000 to 300,000 dinars. This is how you regulate this relationship, that they can refuse or fail to perform the duties of the president, or a council member for at least three months continuously, or for a period of at least six months. The SNS amendment reads this - Decision on discharge in the case referred to in paragraph 4 of paragraph 3 of this Article shall be made by the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of the total number of MPs. The discharge procedure, which is not otherwise provided for by this member by the legislator, and we have also put it because the discharge procedure is also covered, shall be implemented in a manner prescribed by the law governing the work of public agencies. Item 5 is deleted. We think that the amendment, at the very least, should be accepted and thanked for the proposed amendment by the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58852	A minute and 20 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group have been used. The 43rd amendment was submitted by a group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of the 21st People's MPs of the Progressive Group submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58853	We asked you to be in Article 46. The draft law in point 4 of point 1 shall be deleted. Point 4 is to determine the price of access to the electricity distribution system. I've told you about this before. Therefore, one cannot bring about criteria and the amount of compensation and we believe that the Agency should not, even in part of the conflict, in view of the conduct of its business in conflict of interest, establish criteria and automatically determine the amount of compensation. Given the wages that are in this sector, it is quite logical that this law provided for it. So, the budget of around 110 million per year for 30 employees needs to be reached with some calculation, and it's likely that the billing officer, instead of being in charge of the Agency, is probably in agreement with the Agency, so it's acceptable for you to set the price of an affordable electricity distribution system. This should not be because, once again, investment in this area which has not been in the past 27 years, in the sector does not exist, should not be due to the price that is being formed and simply energy is the one that should be the driver of the development of a society and not to be the brakes of the development of society and that the Agency maintains its life and pays personal income at such a high level by having the possibility to set criteria, to determine on the basis of its own personal criteria to set prices for this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58854	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Arsen Đurić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudić submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Mico Rogovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58855	In Article 47. The draft law in paragraph 2 after point 10 is added to point 11) which reads "the state of non-technical losses in the production and distribution of electricity and the efficiency of the measures to reduce them". The extent of the loss of electricity in our country is extremely high, as I have told you in principle, as other MPs have discussed, so it is necessary to take special measures and oblige all those in charge to engage seriously on this issue and in this field, and for all of these reasons mentioned above, we propose that the Agency undertakes to monitor the situation in that area, especially given that these losses, as I pointed out, are somewhere between 400m and 500m euros per year and that this is in line with the value of the construction of a hydropower plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58856	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 48th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Đurić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 52. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Đurić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Đurić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Arsen Đurić, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Lapčević and Milos Aligrudić submitted to the 56th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 56. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 59th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 59. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pavel Marchok. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Zlata Đeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Pavel Marchok. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 82. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 96th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 102 of the amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Đeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Đeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58857	The 135th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 140. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Đeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The government and the Committee on Industry have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. The Chief Industry Committee has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 158th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the number and title of the 18th above the 179th Amendment, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group submitted Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58858	Thank you, Madam President. Chapter 18. The Agency for Energy Efficiency, Members 179 and Members 180. The opinion of the SNS is that it should also be deleted and that the energy efficiency affairs as we have said in the principle debate should be dealt with by the competent ministry for this area in cooperation with other related ministries, since we have a situation where one area is divided, so you have to cooperate with other related ministries and that in this business it is sufficient, even as an aid or assistance to the work of the Energy Agency and that in principle it is required to abolish the Agency for Energy Efficiency, because in the previous period, the work of this agency has taken place? It consisted of employees, fostering party personnel, and there is no control of the financial resources that are being pooled and these so far the results of the agency's work, nor has it justified its establishment back 10 years, nor do we have an increase in energy efficiency, but, unfortunately, the reverse process. In view of all these and in principle the arguments presented, the SNS considers that members 179. - the name of the chapter and chapter and article 180 should be deleted. One word is that the Energy Efficiency Agency is abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58859	The 179th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 179 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 180th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58860	So, just once again to underline, the basic reason for reporting is that because of everything the Agency for Energy Efficiency has done, because of everything it has to do, the Ministry, its services and the Energy Agency, there is no reason to exist or function for energy efficiency, so we have also proposed to delete this chapter and Articles 179 and 180, because Serbia today is a country in the region, one of the countries that has the lowest energy efficiency. If you think that this agency, or if it has not been able to increase the degree of energy efficiency so far, it will succeed in the next period. We will see, we are sure that no valid reason for continuing work, or for the functioning of the Energy Efficiency Agency, should be foreseen by this law, nor should it continue to live on in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58861	National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 180th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 191st amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 193. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 195. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 199th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 200. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry, submitted an amendment to Article 203. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Minister, do you want a word? The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58862	Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only answer once more about the Agency, precisely because MP Mico Rogovic is here. The Energy Agency was founded by the 2004 Law, and that's true, but it can't be a public agency, it can't. So, this bill, which we are now adopting, retains all the legal status that it has so far, independent of the executive authority, and in accordance with the obligations made by the Law on the ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community of South East Europe. So that's the end, because the Agency has to exist as it is, a completely independent body and it's not subject to our Agency Act. Once again, I thank all MPs, out of all 130 amendments, 35 of them, 24 MPs, 11 amendment committees, I think that's good. Once again, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the debate, as well as the proposed amendments written with good intentions, in order to further improve the proposed text of the law. My team, which all proposed amendments, which contribute to the objectives of the law, I would like to point out once again, that this is one of the most important laws in our European agenda. This law continues to harmonize Serbia's energy legislation with EU directives. Serbian energy, one of the first sectors in Serbia to join European flows and which has adopted European rules of the game, since we signed the Treaty on the Energy Community in 2005, and in 2006 we ratified the contract. Since then, to this day, a continuous process of integration of Serbian energy into the EU has been going on, and this law is one of the stone milestones on the road. I have pointed out already in the opening statement and I have repeated several times during the debate, but I will again say that the most important newspaper that the new law adopts is the liberalisation of all segments of the energy market in the Republic of Serbia. All branches of Serbian energy are open to free investment and open competition by the rules of the national regulator, i.e. Energy agencies. There has been criticism in public and from fellow MPs these days around the place and role of the Energy Agency. I will again underline that we have greatly strengthened the role and importance of the Energy Agency in line with trends in energy legislation in the world and the EU. Even in Europe today, a large number of countries cannot be praised for having such a strong independent regulator, which regulates the energy market and which has all the necessary powers transferred from the government. I hope that today as many MPs as possible will support this law and these solutions, whether they are a position or an opposition. We need to be unique about these things and suggestions because this is one of the few industries in the country that kept the substance and people. I can responsibly tell you that this is one of the most orderly sectors in the country. With the new law, Serbian energy will be ready for an open competition in the international arena. The main objectives, since the adoption of the new law that we have managed, have been to increase the security of energy supply and energy for all citizens and businesses, further development of the energy market through increasing competitiveness in all sectors of energy, simplifying the procedures for realisation and investment and energy, increasing energy efficiency and increasing investment in renewable energy sources. We sought through the new law to create opportunities for reforming and restoring the energy sector in order for Serbia to get efficient companies that will be the momentum of the recovery of the entire economy. I hope we've achieved these objectives. Thank you again for your constructive proposals and I urge you to support the new energy law in the adoption day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58863	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS OF THE LAWS ON THE AIR COOPERATION You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Pošurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Šormaz, the Committee Dragan Šormaz, Bojan Mladenović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Nikola Milenković, Nikola Savić, Nikola Savić, Mirović, Mirović and Mirović, Mirović. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Transport and Communications Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58864	The Air Traffic Act, Articles 232 and 250, requires the Ministry of Infrastructure to carry out inspection controls. Article 264 requires the Ministry to take over from the Civil Aviation Directorate of Law, Obligations, Objects, Equipment, Resources and Archive. According to the information available, which we have so far, with today's day, the Ministry has not yet begun taking over, although the law came into force more than a month ago. You don't even know when the takeover was planned. Mr. Minister, you keep pointing out that the expertise in your teams and it's really inappropriate for us to pass this second part of the Energy Act on a day like this, and now we're doing changes and additions to the Air Traffic Act, and there's no one in the O.R., us five, six MPs. There's really a lot to talk about in this sector. I don't know who on your team is so professional in this area, normally I don't consider myself any expert in this area. Your secretary of state doesn't have a job job in this area of air traffic for one day, he's never done that. The assistant worked in JAT tech and never had any contact with air traffic other than working at JAT tech. This finding applies to the Directorate at the very least. You said you weren't an expert on all areas, and I respect that you're an expert in road traffic. You're talking about your associates and competent experts in this area who are in very important places. Neither is it the victory of your team, the secretary of state, nor is it, when it comes to the Directorate, in the 20 first experts of the Serbian Air Force and people dealing with and deciding on the situation and dealing with the Serbian Air Force, there is no airman. Maybe I'm wrong, and you're here to correct me if I'm wrong. All of this exists for reasons to host party members, and this sector is otherwise quite interesting, as wages are of three thousand euros and more. There are many times in the debate of the congregation and the topics used in this area, and it's a lot of talk on the subject and I don't want to repeat myself. We have recently adopted a guarantee of 51.5m euros in loans to JAT, and the guarantee is something other than the state, and I am absolutely certain that JAT, both in this state and in the fleet with which it is, will never be able to repay this loan. That's why it's the government's guarantee, the National Assembly, and there's someone who can repay the loans. The situation in this area is getting worse every day. This is also what the media states and the situation in the fleet is speaking in both technical and non-changeable terms in this sector for years. That's why I'm taking the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to ask your situation and presence here, so I don't want to be the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, Mr. Novakovic, asking a parliamentary question to you this morning, and you're not in the O.R. It's a very serious question. I've been waiting for an opportunity to ask several MPs questions on this subject. The first of them is – why until today the Ministry of Infrastructure has not taken over the tasks of conducting air traffic inspection, although it was legally required to do so in early August 2009 in accordance with Article 11. The Ministry Act. Also, the Air Traffic Act, Articles 232 and 250, stipulates that the inspection is carried out by the Ministry of Traffic, i.e. the Ministry of Infrastructure, Article 264 of the Ministry is prescribed to assume from the Directorate and Civil Aviation the rights and obligations and objects of the first means of operation and archive. I repeat again, on the basis of information, and I apologize if I'm wrong, which we are currently in possession of, this procedure has not been initiated until today, nor has it been completed. Inspective activities continue to be unlawfully carried out by the Civil Aviation Directorate, although it has been causing problems for years to the aviation economy, which has been brought to a very low level. For all of this, various international organisations have also warned and competent for this area during the previous period, i.e. air traffic. You answered one question by my distinguished colleague Tabakovic, it seems to me, in October of last year, that you will respond quickly in that area, and the question was in this context and nothing has been done to this day. That is why four rulings of the Administrative Court have not been carried out, which have been annulled the decisions to withdraw the permits for the work of Cosmas Air from Belgrade, although the deadline for execution expired several months ago and whether you personally did something about it, such as, if I am not mistaken, at the end of October 2010, and here in the Assembly, you promised to take measures. Have you initiated, among other things, proceedings against civil aviation directors for failing to execute judgments and making illegal solutions and damages caused by the Republic of Serbia. Regarding what I was saying earlier, do you have any information on the amount of damage the RS will have to pay for the illegal withdrawal of aviation licenses, which could not carry out air traffic for more than three years. If we continue in this area, especially regarding JAT, we are in a situation where there are no new investments in this area, there is no apparent development of air traffic. It will be easy, as it has been so far, to maintain a JAT in this degree that has been in recent years. Thanks to apparent only budget assistance, all this is ultimately going towards the development of other sectors. Personally, I don't think the government is ready to declare bankruptcy. Unfortunately, the bankruptcy of this company, JP JAT only for political reasons, because the elections are almost, in seven, eight months. It would be at least in the rank of political suicide. Not to say again, the guarantees given by RS for JAT and the situation that only JAT is unfortunately kept alive, that no other adequate measures are being taken, and that someone in all these loans and loans in the next period, even some generations behind us, will have to return. As in the energy of the law that we've been talking about for a little while. I personally expected, as Madam Vice President said this morning, that this law would probably be on the agenda tomorrow and given the seriousness of the problems in the field of energy and air traffic and operation, especially in public enterprises in this area, Mr Minister, there are also climates and situations where we are currently working in the Assembly. It is evident that both this and the previous law, and if we are to pass, pro form works. I'm not really ready to be in these conditions, just to compete with time, to do some things, and according to the SNS amendments, I won't pick up any more. They were delivered to you in writing. I ask you to answer the questions I have well-intentionedly asked for your presence here, and I am grateful in advance for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58865	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58866	Our practice at the ministry is to answer questions. Since there's no Mr. Delic here, we're on those three questions that he asked here yesterday prepared answers. So that I don't read all this, I'll hand it over to the president, so she can hand it over or I'll give it to Mr. Delic myself. Likewise to you – it is impossible for all questions, and I have already twice sent answers to Mrs Tabaković, I answer, but I am ready to answer those questions within 24 hours. What you were saying, I have to do it again. In the transport sector, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy has two sectors – one is transport and infrastructure, and the other is energy and infrastructure. There are over 100,000 people in traffic. Of that, air traffic employs around 10-11 000 workers, most of which are workers in five companies: JAT, JAT-technicals, Civil Aviation Directorate, Aviation Control Agency and Belgrade Airport, with Suport and other smaller companies. I have to say that for the three years that I've been working on, there have been a lot of problems in that sector, but as far as the quality of the work of the people you've been talking about here have absolutely European recognitions for their activity. I was in the opening statement and I said it. So let's not criticize everything that's ours. If anything is important right now, it is the fact that the Agency for the Control of Flights and the Civil Aviation Directorate are the very organisations that adhere to these European standards. Not because we want to go to Europe with them, but because it's been so long ago. So they follow the standards that Europe is asking them to do today. At the end of the line, we've said it more than once, they're financed from those funds, because that's the funding system in those agencies. They're doing our best shots. You ask a good question – why didn't we take the inspectorate. Let me remind you, we're not in some big mistake yet, we've had a year since October, since the law was passed, now we're returning them to the Directorate and precisely because the ministry is in no condition, because you've asked a few questions about personal incomes or salaries. Yeah, my salary is 100 grand. We can't return people with the two, three thousand euros they have today, to the functions they perform at the Directorate or the Agency. It's a simple problem. There's no such thing as a big technique. So that's why we're taking them back, so that they can do the job they know from this position. That's the answer to your question. Once again, I underline - the Agency for Flight Control and Directorate, the Agency for Flight Control with a new facility, with a new building, with new technology, with many young people, I invite you, all MPs, to come one day with me to visit and see what is there, to see what it looks like. And I must commend Belgrade Airport. There's no SPS personnel there either, so let's get this straight. That's where the people I haven't even asked which foreigners they belong. They are on one level that Europe accepts and satisfies. As far as JAT's concerned, it's true and you're absolutely right. No one in the government thinks we're gonna destroy our airline and we're all unanimous here. Serbia must have an airline. And he should have it. How? We talked about it a few times and I'm here in front of you, and it seems to me, once or twice, that next week, there's finally a competition and a tender for a strategic partner, and so far the interest has shown to me 10 foreign companies, not to say which, for a healthy part of JAT. It's our idea, and I don't want to go further into the details. We'll offer the healthy part of JAT to a strategic partner, to build a company together. What's wrong with JAT will stay, so we'll see what we can do about it. But I'm sure the election thing has nothing to do with it. If we don't get to do it, every next government has to do it. It should be pointed out that our pilots and flight attendants are in most countries where they work best. Which is why we wouldn't have an airline. That's the answer to the question about air traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58867	Mr. Rogovic, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58868	There's only one depression. It's not a replica. I thank you for calling on behalf of all MPs, but I am afraid that when you invite us, 250 of us, given the receipts that are in that section and that you have pointed out yourself, the question is whether 250 MPs will return to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-26-0.u58869	On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia and MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 8a be added after article 8. The Government and the Transport and Communications Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, a group of 21 MPs of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia and MP Milan Avramovic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10th of the amendment, in the same text, a group of 21 MPs from the MP group, Forward Serbia and MP Milan Avramovic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia and MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, a group of 21 MPs from the MP group, Forward Serbia and MP Zoran Popovic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, a group of 21 MPs of the parliamentary group, Forward Serbia and MP Nikola Savic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic together submitted to the 15th amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 16th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 21st Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Transport and Communications Committee tabled an amendment to Article 21. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 22nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Aligrudic. The Transport and Connection Committee has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Miroslav Markicevic and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Minister, do you want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill's proposal, in principle, details and generality in the day to vote. I thank you for your participation in the work. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
