ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58312	The 7th Extraordinary Session on 14 July 2011 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 12.00 hours. Gordana Komic, vice-president of the National Assembly, chaired the meeting. )
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58313	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. On the basis of the official record of the presence of Members of the People's Parliaments, I find that 112 MPs attend the meeting, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, and necessary for the work of the National Assembly session, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I ask the MPs who left the hall after the vote, to return and by inserting their voting cards into the parliamentary system, allow us to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs who do not wish to put their parliamentary cards into the electronic system, not to interfere with the work and arrival of MPs who wish to respect the Rules of Procedure and to establish their presence in the hall with their cards. I realize we have the quorum needed to work. There are 95 MPs in the electronic system and a number of dozens of MPs, without an electronic system, but visually clear that they are present in the hall. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under which the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation based on the position of the 2nd member, who says in his first position - that the MP has the right to request a notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, and on issues under the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities at which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the function of the National Parliament at the meeting of the National Assembly. Exceptionally, the President, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, shall also be entitled to attend the session of the National Assembly, orally in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of Members of Parliament, who attend the sitting, and before moving to a further debate. Before I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word, on the basis of Articles 90 and 87, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today after 18.00 hours, and that the break will be set at the usual time at 1400 hours. Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their rights? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to ask the Government a question - what is the intention and what steps will it take to facilitate one of the most difficult economic situations in which small and medium-sized enterprises are located? Not to be a story, not to be deceived, the type that the crisis is going to help us, that based on the crisis, we'll even be able to develop, and now they're saying that the crisis is over, I warn Serbian citizens, I warn the government that this is more unsustainable, when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises. I'd like to remind you of some facts relating to small and medium-sized enterprises. The total number of companies participate with 99.8%, as regards employees 66.7% and 67.8% in transport, and 33% in gross domestic product and 57.4 gross value added. Don't these data show how important it is that Serbia literally does not collapse in this period, where a huge number of small and medium-sized enterprises are not forced to close their doors and that the new tens of thousands of workers are on the street. Not because they're incompetent and not working, but because they're working under conditions that are absolutely inappropriate. To remind you that, based on some surveys, it has been found that, for the regular settlement of VAT to the state, small and medium-sized enterprises are taking credits, with a percentage of 32.3%, for the maintenance of current business 18.35%, for the payment of other residual liabilities, contributions, permits, taxes etc. 12.9%. A total of 63%. So how can someone do business, if they need to take 63% to give out their profits, to give for just naked maintenance? I'd remind you of an inappropriate situation when it comes to VAT. You know anyone who issues an invoice has to pay the state VAT at the same time. And the invoice, especially some economic operators, as they say, pays for it in 60, 90, some in 120 days. Okay, how do you think that's possible? Those who took loans under green conditions to do business, how can they do business, if the state is sitting down and waiting for banks to activate the bonds or stocks and put out the most valuable thing we have in Serbia, when it comes to business, or business, which is small and medium-sized enterprises? You didn't open the market here to foreign banks, you opened the hunting grounds. The monthly interest rate is 2.4%, at 29% a year. Where is it in the world? They take that money from 2.5% to 4%, and they place it here by 29%. You, too, for 10 or 11 years, have been letting us be robbed by the unfavorable. That every first one of them just comes to warn about the unpaid wars, and if they don't pay, they'll activate the bonds. How long do you think he can take it? And you're saying the crisis is over? I'm asking another question. Among other things, I've asked that question before, but I didn't get an answer. There are some who are untouchable in this country and who are destroying this country. First they robbed her in privatisation, now they're robbing her by not paying their dues at all. Only 170 billion are owed by Miskovic, Beko and Drakulic for contributions, outstanding contributions. For all debts, they owe about 500 billion to the state. That's five billion euros, people. How much credit do you have at the IMF? You boast when you get about five, six, ten million, and here those who stole this country owe five billion. I ask the government to provide us with a list of those who owe the state and on what basis - taxes, contributions, and unpaid invoices to those who delivered the goods to them. One time to end the thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58315	Five minutes. Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Pastor Balint.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58316	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a few questions to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic about the draft media strategy. The first question is – will the National Assembly be involved in the process of adopting a media strategy? We know, of course, that it is within the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we believe it would be celibate for the National Assembly to declare a document that is of strategic importance to the Republic. The second question is whether he personally as prime minister and government, whether they agree with the basic concept of a media strategy according to which the state, local self-government and the National Council of National Minorities could not be the founders of the media in the future. We believe that this draft media strategy is very dangerous and that we do not agree with the basic concept of this media strategy. We believe that local self-governments and national councils of national minorities should be founders, i.e. they should be allowed to be founders of the media in the future. We know what cases of media privatisation we've had in recent years. This country does not have a single example of privatised media that broadcasts in the language of the national minority, and that these media are still broadcasting the programme in the languages of national minorities at large, as was the case before privatisation. All we have to do is see if there are any conditions and he's doing business under the terms of Radio Sombor, for example. On the other hand, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced. The Law on National Councils allows national councils to be the founders of the media, on the other hand, the Law on Local Self-Government has been regulated that local self-government can be the founder of the media in several languages. We launched an initiative yesterday. Today at 13.00 we will send the conclusions of the MPs to Mr. Prime Minister, Minister Predrag Markovic and members of the Working Party for draft a media strategy. We believe that European integration must not be misused, that it must not be claimed that there is a European standard which would mean that all media should be privatised because such a standard does not exist. There is no regulation that would oblige EU Member States or countries that want to become EU members to privatise their media. There is no EU standard that would prohibit state, local self-government or national councils of national minorities from being the founders of the media. So this is about the abuse of European integration by the Working Group for the draft media strategy, and that is what we are opposed to. I would like to say at the end of this address that, besides MPs from the minority group, this initiative has so far been supported by MPs Vitomir Mihalovic, Saša Milenić, Veroljub Stevanović, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Aleksandra Jerkov, Nenad Canak, Petar Kuntic and Dragan Markovic-Palma. On behalf of the minority parliamentary group, I thank Mr Cvetkovic publicly and I expect answers to these questions and expect a debate on the draft media strategy and in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58317	Thank you. MP Bojan Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58318	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Cvetkovic, as I see he has returned to his political life even yesterday's visit to Oliver Dulic's construction site on July 4th. So, my questions, after all that has been happening in the previous days and after loud announcements of the introduction of the principles of professionalisation and departementisation in public enterprises, when it expects the prime minister of the first effects and his strong recommendations to the authorities in public enterprises, above all to the boards and how many directors under that decision, will be appointed by the end of this year, and given the mandates that are under way. As far as I've been able to figure out from the media, it's only two executive posts, i.e. the replacement of those people who are in VD status. In parallel, information has emerged that the government's staff committee will continue to give the last word in those appointments. I would just like to remind the Prime Minister and this scandalous case that took place last week or ten days ago, so a new Management and Supervisory Board, a public company, or state-owned company, has something like 83.1% of actions in the state, seems to me according to the latest data from the central record register of values in which all those people who have been on the Board of Directors and Supervisors have been practically re-named until now, and it is exclusively about party personnel. Now it's no longer a problem that in the boards of public enterprises or state-owned enterprises are called highly-positioned party personnel, since the monthly fee is limited to 32 or 33 thousand dinars, I think, I think, has fallen interest in these functions, which brings us to a new danger, at least in those positions were people who were more interested in what was happening in the company or at least have a greater amount of knowledge. I just want to remind you that the board of directors at Nicole Tesla Airport has also appointed one of the staff, one of the ruling parties, I think it's the SPS. So, the man is a merchant of interest in all respects of this, let's say a noble invitation. I'm not sure that man is in a state of professional and responsible condition to control the business he had last year's overall annual income of over 60m euros. That's one question. The second question for the prime minister, what is the state debt, i.e. public and state-owned enterprises towards the economy, not only to small and medium-sized enterprises spoken of by Mr Todorovic, but generally towards the economy, so from the beginning of this year to July 1st, and what is the average payment deadline for commitments. Mr Todorovic was partly talking about it, I think we have a much bigger problem with the currently available data, the total debts are greater than one billion euros. The question for the government is, in fact, when they will finally make a long announced decision that all of their obligations to their suppliers or to their clients are at peace within the appropriate deadline that has been announced as 60 days. The LDP proposes that it be 45 days and I think it would be a very important step in this final introduction of order in economic life and in increasing liquidity rates. Finally, the third issue, also for the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister and the president of the Union of Professional Players of Serbia, Vuk Jeremic. So, yesterday, the president of the LDP parliamentary group also requested in a special letter to Mr Micunovic, president of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of this Parliament. So, to deliver the foreign ministry to this parliament, to the Foreign Affairs Committee, all the press releases it received from 1 January 2007. So, practically in these two mandates covered by Minister Jeremic in order to be able to see to what extent the minister abuses his post and serves practically as a megaphone between a particular round of countries who, for their reasons, are trying to make objections unsatisfactory to what is being said in this House and the minister apparently uses it for his political accounts with the LDP and in this latest case, obviously with Mr Micunovic after that incident that took place at the Committee session, it seems to me two or three months ago. I think it's important information we need to have. I only think of official diplomatic, or protest notes. These protests are due to the behaviour of Minister Jeremic, who publicly expresses his cheerleading passions or even tries to determine who will be the country's football champion. These kinds of protests that come from other clubs simply don't have to be delivered to this parliament. I think that's the kind of answer we've seen very clearly in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58319	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58320	I'd like the same thing about the inconsistency of this country's foreign policy. I have a slightly different view of this matter and of course a question for Mirko Cvetkovic and Vuk Jeremic. Namely, when it comes to the consistency of foreign policy, I must say, the country that is in the problem of Serbia, with its territorial integrity that is trying to, I guess, try to protect itself, cannot afford any kind of inconsistencies in that field. The first inconsistencies seen in our foreign policy are like this. It is repeatedly pronounced by state officials, Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, President Boris Tadic, who reads: "We will never recognise Kosovo's independence". Then, in fact, any one who takes over the prerogatives of foreign affairs, although under the constitution, has no right, I mean Boris Tadic, and the other one who has an obligation to do so under the Constitution, I mean Vuk Jeremic. Their practical moves differ entirely from this sentence that has been declared. Worst of all, these moves offend those countries with which we have good relations in international transport, which for their own reasons stand at the point of preserving Serbia's integrity. Not because the Serbs are there, not because they have some emotional relationship with us, but because they have a certain interest. These interests are usually evident, which through respect for international law comes to the need to protect the integrity of the state rather than disrupt it. We're coming to second inconsistencies now. It's inconsistencies in foreign policy action between the different authorities of this country. We have one side of the foreign minister, which is a policy that we otherwise very negatively appreciate because of this first inconsistencies, and then we have an inconsistencies and inconsistencies policy when it comes to individual relations with certain states from the level of foreign ministers and the level of the foreign policy committee of this assembly. What my predecessor used to say a little bit when it came to one of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, when there was a conflict between the foreign minister and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that's what he said. So there was a conflict over whether Serbia should or should not establish closer relations with the so-called. The countries of the unclassified bloc. The foreign minister has one in relation to the flossula that we will never recognise independent Kosovo, has one consistent finding, which is that those countries that are against the recognition of Kosovo's independence and maintain good relations with them, while the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in this assembly, completely ignores it and publicly. The last so-called incident that was, which is based on my question I asked in Parliament the day before yesterday. Then there was a big noise about what I said that I was told by the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of this House that Dragoljub Micunovic would not develop a group of friendships with Iran, that it was not smart, because there is no democratic capacity there. Then it turns out that I'm denunciating my colleague, my MP, from the Foreign Affairs Committee, because he allegedly told me that privately. You know, if we were talking at the bar, that we were talking somewhere at home or on some vacation, on the beach, and that statement was falling away from what that same gentleman stood for and publicly and privately, then it wouldn't be deunciation, but it would be a great shame for any MP to be such a co-worker of his own. This, however, was about something else entirely. A job interview, a job and a subject that is the content of our work, which is the formation of this group of friendships. Therefore, there can be no denunciation of the word, of any evil intention. In politics there are spins, yes, practically this morning I used one spin to prove what a friend to this country looks like to anyone who recognises an independent Kosovo. If that's not the case, all gaffs and mistakes are possible. Yeah, yeah, it's spin, but it's not far from the truth about how foreign policy is run. A question for the foreign minister -- as explained by these two inconsistencies, first and second.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58321	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word to exercise their right under Article 286(2)? Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next people's messengers: the People's Messenger Milan Dimitrijevic and the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Notification of the invitations to the session. I would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President, Dr Slavica Djukic – Dejanovic, called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of promoter Milan Markovic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Government, the Head of State and Local Self-Government, to attend: Duško Radaković, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government and Tatjana Zeljković – Babic, adviser to the Local Self-Government Sector at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Explanation of the grounds for calling for a session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the NSRS. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the NSRS, President of the National Assembly, Dr Slavica Djukic – Dejanovic, hereby informs that this session has been convened within a short period of time than set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda set out in the request of 117 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 7th extraordinary session of the NSRS in 2011, which was convened at the request of 117 MPs, and pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 248. The Rules of Procedure of the NSRS, a request was submitted for the maintenance of the Seventh Extraordinary Session with a specific agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 7th extraordinary session of the NSRS in 2011 on the basis of a proposal from 117 MPs, the following is set: Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, tabled by Government 2. A REGULAR YEARLY ASSESSMENT OF THE CITIZER FOR 2010. THE Year, which was submitted by the Citizens' Protector, and with the proposal for the conclusions of the Justice and Administration Committee from 21 June 2011, we move to the 1st point of the agenda -. The proposal for an amending and supplementing law on local elections has been passed by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to the MPs' groups of MPs in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia, G17 plus, Together for Shumadija - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica - 24 minutes; the parliamentary group SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the parliamentary group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the parliamentary group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of Manjina - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the parliamentary group of PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs, who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Milisav Petronijevic, MP group SPS - JS; MP Jovan Palalic, DSS MP – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Veroljub Arsic, MP for Serbia, MP Zoran Krasic, MP for the SRS. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they wish, to authorise one of their members to deliver a notice to us, so that we may inform the National Assembly. National MP Bojan Djuric, the LDP parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. I welcome Minister Milan Markovic. We'll let him take the place for a minute. Does the representative of promoter Milan Markovic, the minister of human rights and minority rights, the state administration and local self-government want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58322	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, this proposal amends and complements the Law on Local Elections in fact introduces all those standards introduced by amendments and additions, i.e. I think they were only amendments to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, recently, which the National Assembly has recently established as a proposal and subsequently adopted. So, according to what you've done here, we've similarized this law on local elections. Of course, that's not the only reason, we had last year's decision of the Constitutional Court, which applied to so-called. blanco resignations and in order when entering the local parliament. So we certainly had to fill in that void that was made by the Constitutional Court decisions. In any case, I will remind you of the standards introduced by these amendments to this law on local elections. The first, therefore, is that there are no blank resignations. The second participation of the less-represented sex is the same as it was regulated when amending the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments. The third is, of course, that so-called. a locked list, where it will be entered in order to be given when running. The fourth shift and the fifth, to say conditionally, are of a technical nature. This one refers to the fact that the time limit from the day of the schedule to the day of maintenance cannot last more than 60 days. Of course, it is also a alignment with what is stated in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and as a consequence of the provision of the Constitution relating to that period from the time of the call to the day of maintenance. These amendments have been made to the Law on Court Orders since last year, if I am not mistaken, and it concerns that instead of the District Court, which is responsible for resolving disputes, the Court of Justice is now. So that's it. Unfortunately, there may be a chance of some root changes to our electoral system. I am not sure how much this is that parliament has adopted, when it comes to the choice of MPs, and what is now about local elections, is the right answer to all the problems we are facing, but it is an undisputed step forward in introducing some standards that are very important and that should give more quality political life, more responsibility, a better relationship between elected persons and citizens. Therefore, this is certainly a step forward and a step in the right direction and should continue this way towards building our electoral system, as part of our political system that certainly requires many other corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58323	I thank the minister. Do the competent committees, the Legislative Committee, the Justice and Administration Committee or the Local Self-Government Committee want the word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58324	I think Mr. Colakovic checked in, I'm not sure, I think it's order, but good. Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've spent your time, if I've seen correctly, three minutes and five seconds on the basis of this law. I agree with at least half of what you said, that you are not sure that this is the right answer to all the problems our political system has both at the central level and at the level of all the local self-government in Serbia. The LDP agrees with that assessment of yours. The only difference between us is that you have proposed this law and today you are defending it here on behalf of the government which is its official promoter, and we will vote against this law at the moment of the day of the vote. The reasons why the LDP is against this law are actually identical to the ones we talked about a few weeks ago or a little more than a month ago, when we held a debate here on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. First of all, I don't think we have the right to go at this pace of turtles or snails into the reforms of our political system, which you kind of recommended here a few moments ago. For several years, this problem is being discussed, and the law that we are changing today or supplementing is four and a half to five years old, if I'm not mistaken. With great enthusiasm, he is at that time explained as a result of the new constitution, new democratic relations, relations in society. In the meantime, we had a situation where local self-government or this parliament, if we talk about the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, function in such a way that they were practically the most urgent or most serious objections coming from both the Venice Commission and the European Commission to address this problem. If we are talking about adopting European standards, you have on several occasions mentioned the standards that this law should adopt. I don't think there is any in this law, or in the amendments to the law, there is practically no European standard. Tell me, is there a European state that regulates the issue of order on the list in this way, that is, how candidates from the list come into the membership of future parliaments, and local parliaments and parliaments operating at the level of the central state? It's just that this approach that we have to be an exception in everything, so at some rate, we're going to get to the right European standards, it's not going to take us anywhere. Especially since you and I both know that practically nothing will happen until the next election, that it is very difficult that the issue of regulation of the political system will be one of the key issues when negotiations or talks on the programme, the plan of work of the next coalition and the next ruling coalition, as was not the case three years ago when this government was created. As far as LDP is concerned, we will insist on it after the next elections, which we expect early or early spring next year. Since you're here today, I think you owe us answers to a few more concrete, above all, political issues that have come public these days. One of these issues is the issue of both local, regional and parliamentary elections being held at the same time or separated. It's also important from the point of view of this law that is before us today. The second question is why do we have this practically unnecessary session today? We could have passed this law a few weeks ago when we discussed amendments and additions to the Law on selecting Members of the People. I don't know what happened in these months, so today we got practically identical text of the law, although in the meantime it speculated in public with various other proposals. First, it was speculated that Minister Zarko Obradovic, vice president or vice president of the SPS, insisted on his party's position to hold first local elections and then parliamentary elections. One of the political parties in this parliament strongly advocated the return of the direct election system even if the mayor, although the system proved disastrous in that period in 2004. - In 2008, when it was applied to Serbia. Your party and some other political parties have remained silent on this issue, although you have tried very often in the past years to impose this topic on the reform of electoral legislation, obviously unsuccessfully. I understand your dissatisfaction that you failed to do so, no matter what we think or what we thought about that bill or the bill you promoted two and a half years ago. You know what, when you perform such a duty, when you run a ministry whose virtually sole duties are the functioning of local self-government and keeping an eye on the functioning of the state administration, then this is one of the most important issues and your political and personal failure to impose a more serious reform would have to lead to some more serious consequences, and not to say at least withdrawing the political move, or leaving the post you've been in for several years now. As for the effects of this law on the political system, they will be disastrous. You know that very well. The situation that has now been the biggest remark by the European Commission and the Venice Commission, therefore, that the parties are practically arbitrationally deciding on who their political representatives will be in local or national parliaments, but will continue to function in almost the same way, except that they will in some ways be even worse, even more catastrophic. Therefore, the moment when the party sovereignly decides who will be on its list is now moving forward, that is, the committees will eventually become in the city and municipal parliaments those most senior party management in the case of local elections, the most senior management of the party in the region before the election is called, i.e. at the time the elections are called, decides that they are the best representatives. This completely debilitates the political life in this country and you know it well. If it weren't for that, other countries would have a similar system. On the other hand, the effects of such a law can be virtually bypassed by the mass submission of resignations or by not accepting a mandate on the side of those candidates who are selected in order from the list, and then do not enter the composition of local parliaments, or after a few days, or several weeks of leaving. It would be interesting to see today what a political blood count is in these local parliaments across Serbia, how many of those people who became committees there in mid-May 2008, as much as they are in the same positions today, and you will see that by locking the list, you cannot achieve this goal that was allegedly designed, which is that citizens know in advance who will be their representatives in the future composition of the bodies of local self-government units. This especially in a situation where each of the parties of the ruling coalition enters the upcoming electoral process with some priorities or their demands in relation to future and coalition compositions and coalition lists and what will be priorities in the next period. These are general remarks that the LDP has. We understand why, even from these principles that you have laid down in the Bill's proposal in some places, you have given up because of the need for this law to have 126 MPs in this House, and hence the derogation from the rules on coalition lists, i.e. the replacement of candidates from certain parties after resigning. Hence, this rule of return, practically, to the committee benches of those who at one point took positions in the executive government, in local self-government, etc. And beyond that, there are these more or less technical changes that you've been talking about, which are the result of the new system of court arrangements in this country. Since you are, in practice, the first representative of the government from these resolutions, after the adoption of the amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government here in parliament, I would ask you that, at the moment when there is an opportunity for this debate, that is, when you respond to what are the remarks and comments of the MPs, we may also talk a little bit about the expected effects of this law. By the end of the year, I'm sure you'll be Minister. I can see you're not going to make any of those political moves and goings, which I was just talking about. So, what financial and political effects do you expect from this law, how do you comment on what has been achieved as an agreement last week at a meeting of the Social-Economic Council on raising the non-taxable part of profit and how will this affect the functioning of local self-government, i.e. their projected revenues by the end of this year? Does the ministry you run in this regard plan any kind of activity that would somewhat neutralize the effects of these changes in laws and legal provisions? The last round of issues and which is relevant and which is not dealt with by this law, which makes it much more serious for citizens to deal with authorities in local self-government units, is the issue of public enterprises or public systems in local self-government units. We all know that council seats in municipalities, even in cities, are not the most attractive political places in the political market at the time of the election. The councils are no longer professionals in the congregations of cities and municipalities. They meet several times a month or a year, for which they receive a certain relatively small fee. Where political life is taking place and where political and economic power is measured in cities and municipalities are public enterprises, public institutions and all that follows that kind of shared political power. Regardless of this law, and if it is adopted, citizens will no longer be affected by who will be directors of local public enterprises, who during the year or who use the largest part of the local budget of those tax duties they give or have already in these few years reached that level of duty to depend entirely on either their creditors or the republican public undertakings and the Republic government, which, for example, in some concrete cases has dozens of cities and municipalities in Serbia that cannot begin without donations from the Republic's goods reserves or from the NIS itself, when it comes to NIS and other energy companies. Of course this isn't the time of year when you can talk seriously about this. The government has decided to now come before this parliament with this proposal. So it is one of the political ideas to fully clarify the situation of when elections will be held, or whether we will have joint parliamentary and local elections at the same time at the beginning of next year. Then I welcome this part of the initiative, since it would indeed be a disaster for Serbia to hold a period since October, November, from the possible launch of local and regional elections, until the beginning of 2013, or to hold presidential elections, in an intolerable pre-election campaign, and pre-election campaigns usually look that way in this country, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58325	It was used 12.40 minutes from the time of the authorised representative. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58326	Mr. Gjuric, I have suggested what this assembly is prepared to adopt. It cannot possibly be my responsibility that the congregation is not prepared to adopt anything more or something different from what I have suggested. I still claim that the system I promoted two years ago, related to which I was also in your party and spoke with your party's leadership, is the best system I've ever heard. I haven't heard better. Neither your party nor the other opposition parties, as well as part of the parties in power, was anyone willing to change the electoral system, nor did anyone propose another electoral system, except for one proposal from one opposition party to apply the duchy system: half-half, which is a mixture of two systems with its good and bad sides, but essentially not one new qualitatively better system. I have advocated reform of the political system. If it's responsibility and guilt, it's good to know in the future and keep quiet when we have some ideas, rather than take a line of less resistance. Remember that in this reform of the electoral system, it was first heard of the state electoral commission as an independent body, instead of the RIK, which we now have. It became a topic and it would be adopted sooner or later. I made that law and it will be this year, next year, someone will adopt it and that part will become a reality. We've made a bill on the voter's list, thanks to that law and you and all of our fellow citizens will be able to check whether they're registered, they'll be able to check where they vote, they'll be able to change the place of voting, they'll say, I want to be in Mladenovac, in Medvedja and Presevo, so I'm going to vote there. Some things have changed. Am I satisfied? Partly. Could it have been anything? It could, but it's not up to me. So, I don't think that, you probably believe your party's ideas and you want your party's ideas to be implemented in politics in the work and you, along with your party's leadership, have been trying for many years to make these ideas a reality in Serbia and you haven't succeeded, but you haven't even resigned, so you let someone else from your party do the job. It's just like you asked me – if I'm going to make a political move, you can also ask your leader if he's going to make any political moves because it doesn't work in two election cycles to realize his political ideas. But, of course, I don't think so, not because of me, and even less because of Mr. Jovanovic or anyone else in the O.R. I simply think that a man should present his ideas and fight for them, even though the result of that struggle is uncertain. So, I fought for a change in the electoral system that I believe is correct, most people think it doesn't have to be done. It was fair to say what I think, but what is reality, that's what we have today, changes like this Parliament is willing to adopt. If parliament were willing to adopt something more, we would have done something different. Parliament is not ready, therefore, to this point, which parliament itself has drawn up by law, which parliament did a month ago, I do not know exactly. As for the standard, whether or not standards have been met, I think it was all resolved in the talks between parliament and the Venice Commission, the president of the Serbian Parliament and the Venice Commission. As far as I know, there are no objections to these solutions contained in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and subsequently there will be no objections to the solutions contained in this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. We all deal with politics, and we know what this system is wearing, which we've now adopted at the republican level, and now we're adopting at a local level. I mean, the shift for the better is, there's no dilemma. It is good that there are no blank resignations, it is good that the higher participation of the less represented sex is, it is good that the lists are locked, but there will be problems with the parties themselves how to animated people to go to elections, that is, to actively deal with it. It will be a key issue, the parties will have to take care of the quality of the people they are running for, some of their moral stability, opportunities to change their party uniforms, etc. which is kind of a necessary evil. When you choose between two evils, the question is what's less. It's less evil to me than to have blank resignations. On the other hand, when you have a free MP or a free councilman, the executive authorities will need a little more attention and respect to show them, because it is possible that when there are no such resignations and there is no threat that someone will be deprived of a mandate that does not want to vote for some law, then it is certain that every minister or every president of the municipality will have to make an effort to explain to each individual why one of his proposals is good, so he is simply struggling to convince the majority that he is voting for some of his proposals and to support him in the policy he implements. You've asked me a number of other questions, but probably now in the context of the overall political situation, which you know I don't have an answer, I'm not in charge and I don't know the facts. As far as the funding system for local self-government is concerned, it is entirely within the Ministry of Finance's domain. Our ministry is exclusively a legal character and we are dealing with laws in the field of state administration, local self-government, association of citizens of political and general freedom of realization, freedom of association of citizens, parent books, etc. So we don't have much to do with money and economy, unfortunately, and now it's extended to human and minority rights. It would be good to reach agreement one day on some further, future changes, but I also find these changes that are now happening in our society, our political system, and I think the next term will be marked by major political changes, which will continue what has now been achieved, what the Serbian Parliament itself has done and what we are doing with these amendments to the law. So the major disturbances have been removed. The only thing left for me to see is the electoral system itself, because it is undeniable that such a proportionate electoral system depersonalized with these attributes that belong more to a personalized system will cause some problems, but these are great achievements compared to what we had up to a year ago, which was also the result of some political arrangements. When we did past the Law on Local Elections, then the coalition, the majority of them at the time, it was done the same way in a way that parliament would vote it, and we people were dealing with politics, every idea we wanted to produce in public, in life, has to get 126 MPs for, in order for it to become a law. So, like everyone else, so is this law. But it needs to be optimistic, and I think these are good moves, and it's going to look a lot different in the election than it did in the last election.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58327	The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. (Bojan Djuric, from the place: Replica. ) The word has a People's MP Momo Colaković, you do not have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58328	Dear Vice-Presidents, the presidency, the honourable and respected ministers with associates, the honourable MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group made a significant contribution to the adoption of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs several months ago. With regard to the solutions offered and in this law, we have given a strong argument on certain issues, which we have specifically advocated. I particularly stress this agreement of the political parties, which we have achieved in the adoption of this law and the examination of the amendments, especially our amendment to this. Since this law on elections in local self-government treats the same questions, I have no particular reason to point out our definitions and demands, since we have discussed the amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs in very detailed and precise terms. But let me just point out a few questions about this, which we consider to be very important and important and that we support. First, new solutions to this law propose the allocation of mandates to candidates from the list in order and in this respect the provision concerning the selection of MPs has been accurately transposed. As a result, in Article 43, we feel that this is to be supported and supported. Secondly, the issue of blanco resignations has been regulated, and we know that almost all parliamentary groups have spoken positively in this regard, and we think that, when it comes to selecting committees in local self-governments, municipalities and cities, that this principle should also apply. That is why this article 47. We support the bill. Thirdly, the procedure for granting a mandate in the coalition lists has also been specified. This is very important and important, which we particularly advocated when considering the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. In this respect, it is consistently specified in this law. We think it's very good, which also turned out in the discussions and discussions that we had after the law was passed. Fourthly, we particularly support the provision of the Law in Article 20, which precisely regulates the issue of less represented gender, in this case, we have to find out, unfortunately for us, it's women. We think it's a good thing, when we haven't been able to do more for our women, then the bar and this degree in satisfying justice and justice towards what is now said to be a weaker sex, is quite satisfying. In this respect, we support the solution provided for by the law. With regard to these other issues that provide for the harmonisation of the law with other legal rules, such as the issue of resolving complaints or objections, since we have adopted the Law on the Court of Justice, that in this respect there is no need to agree and some particular reasons why there is no need to speak of it, because this is a normal thing, to take advantage of the amendments and the addition of this law of these essential issues, that this law also be compared with the laws that are in this Parliament in the meantime. With regard to these provisions, the PUPS parliamentary group has made very reasoned proposals and suggestions, and in this regard and in this regard, we will make a contribution both in the debate and in particular and in principle in order for this law to be adopted. Our attitude is very precise and clear. The proposal for this law, in an appropriate and consistent manner, addresses the issues of selecting committees in local self-government, or municipalities and cities, and this is the continuation of the reform regarding the electoral system. I fully agree with Mr. Secretary's views regarding the work we've done so far regarding the electoral system. It is a start, it is good, it provides a good basis for us to complete the overall reform of the electoral system, and in this respect there is probably a continuation of everything we are talking about, and especially regarding the changes in some constitutional solutions, some legal solutions that regulate these issues, etc. In this regard, we in this House will make our full contribution. For these and many other reasons, the PUPS parliamentary group will give its vote for the adoption of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58329	Thank you. Six minutes has been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. National MP Milisav Petronijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58330	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, which is on the agenda today, is in fact the second part of the story on amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs from about two months ago, the continuation of that story, the subject of the same, the dilemma of the same. So, Mr. Minister, if you were then, when there was a debate on amendments to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, I could tell you, and I'll repeat everything I said last time, only now more appropriate than the law, that is, to treat committee members in local self-government units. Since you weren't, I will, in a few words, state the position of the SPS-JS parliamentary group and some questions about the SPS position. I'd start with what you're done with. Serbia's need for a legal and political system to comply with European criteria, with principles and values, is undeniable. After all, we have defined ourselves to join the EU, which is why Serbia needs to continue on that path as well. I completely agree with one sentence – this is just one step towards it. We should not think that this law has implemented some reform of the electoral system, it is not a reform, nor does the promoter say it is a reform. This is the answer to the request of the professional public, the European body and the Constitutional Court, above all when it comes to two issues, which are blank resignations and overly arbitrary mandate-determination by the parties. Mr. Minister, if I'm not mistaken, the Constitutional Court first annulled Article 43 and Article 37. Law on local elections. We don't have much to talk about here, but we have to make it right. It's being corrected in this way that you've proposed as a government. This law has three acts in fact. I wouldn't stick to the one talking about harmonising with the Constitution and the law because it's unreal. The second part is an important step forward, but with major possible problems that will arise, which is how the mandate is distributed. When I say how to distribute the mandate, I mean in the final elections, and also after the term of office of the board of directors in the local self-government unit assembly. Part three refers to resignations. I want to stay on each of those issues for a while. I'm going to have some questions somewhere, and somewhere I'm going to explain why we're going to support this proposal, but only as a necessary temporary transitional solution. Before that, here in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Political Party Law, it defines who can be the proposing candidate list. These are three entities: political parties, coalitions of political parties and groups of citizens. It's a clean alignment with the Political Party Act. The remaining solution is that the list must have at least one-third of the candidates in relation to the total number and the remaining solution is that the list must have 30 signatures for each candidate on the list. So the number of candidates on the list times thirty signatures. Here you should consider another member, Article 23, which does not change, which says that these signatures must be certified. There's nothing more we can do in this country without it being certified. Even when it comes to resignation, she has to be certified. Of course, the fee is paid for it. My question is what are the reasons the government gave up something to talk about when it was the Law on political parties. To remind you, the epolitical party had to register 10,000 certified signatures. At the time, it was said that such political parties that are registered, which already have 10,000 certified signatures, would not have to collect certified signatures for the elections, etc. From this formulation in the law, these political parties and coalitions of political parties, as well as groups of citizens, for which it is logically, collect these signatures. It's not a small thing. I think you should give a correct answer to this question. You know, if you have 8,000 terms of office of 30 signatures, that's 240,000 signatures of times as many as there are lists, that's about a million signatures. Not to be too long, I think there's some explanation here. When it comes to each third on the list being a less represented sex, there is no dispute, we support it. I'd stick to that matter of assigning a mandate. The bottom line is that this is a alignment with European values, that it allows the chooser to freely express his will, directly influences or directly chooses and reduces the indirectity of the selection, etc., is one step forward, but a step that will cause a lot of problems and at the same time open up space that we have many opportunities to move forward in building the electoral system. Namely, the political parties here will no longer assign mandates, i.e. voters, but will do so by election commission, in order of the candidates on the list. Of course, this time it will be the political parties, or candidates of the electoral lists, who will determine you, but before the election. It is, I can say, a step forward in the sense that the chooser knows what order is and who is the one who has the most chance of being. But what's the problem, even bigger than profit? What they'll know and who they can't be. You know, the one that's at the end of the list, it can't be. The problem is that the voter will know that. The problem with this system is that it will demote both candidates and voters, etc. In that sense, it will cause a problem. On the one hand, it is advanced and gives answers to the Constitutional Court's request, etc., and on the other hand, it opens up a big problem that we will face in the elections. That's why I think and that's why I said this could only be a passing and temporary solution, and that a transitional solution, and that it must be entered into, whoever is in power, and I totally agree with you, should be bitten and entered into a complete change in the reform of the electoral system. It was also a story when the Law on People's MPs was amended and asked for the best solution for Serbia, taking into account its population structure, and Serbia's territory, and the possibility that political parties could best come to terms as a constitutional category that forms the political will of citizens, and that citizens could influence the choice, etc. It has a brightness of opportunity, of whether it is open proportionally or whether it is closed, whether it is blocked, whether it is closed unblocked, whether it is personalised proportional, whether it is mixed etc. I agree with your evil, for such a thing to achieve the greatest consensus possible and to get up once, let that government that is, that it has other proposals and other systems. Only in that case do we think this can be accepted. Because there will be an even bigger problem than the election of MPs. The entire republic is one electoral unit. At the level of the municipality is one constituency. Do you know what it's like in the villages? The villages know exactly who the candidate is. You know exactly who's on the list and you know exactly if he'll be able to get on the list. It's one of the reasons why we have to keep searching for the best possible electoral system. This, at this point, gives answers, but it's not good. It is the exact same story when it comes to the allocation of the term of office after the resignation, i.e. the termination of the term of office to the board. The same story was completely conveyed when it was the Law on the Selection of MPs. There's the honorable one, and one and the other amendment, they're being transferred here now, and there's not much to talk about. What we should definitely say is, that's the part that relates to resigning from the board. It was the first provision the Constitutional Court disputed. Here, a formula is given something similar, a little more precise than it was. I must say, it is a pity that this has not been proposed in the case of amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments. It was only given there that it had to be written, that it had to be certified and nothing else. This means that I, as a Messenger of the people, go out behind a pay phone and say, "I am resigning." You say - nice, but go check that resignation to be trusted that you filed it, etc. At least there's a possibility that the councilman and the Assembly are verbally, because that member, if I'm not mistaken, doesn't change. This is Article 46. The resignation of the Assembly may be given in oral form. It is immediately established in that same congregation. The end of the term of office shall be determined. So that I don't get too detailed, that formula that is being determined and decided, can also cause a lot of dilemmas. If I resign, what do we have to decide? Could be a better expression to establish your resignation, because I gave it. There's nothing to decide about that, etc. The essential question is, this is how it comes down to being a personal act, that only he can be a yes and that no one can answer this question for him. I think we should support that. I will still have a reserve when someone resigns to verify it, as I had the reserve and when it comes to elections for MPs, because I find that absolutely unnecessary. It's important to determine whether a man really quit or didn't resign. It's time for him to confirm his resignation. In the end, I'll be back to square one. We'll support a passing solution. It's necessary at this point, but with the need to enter a complete reform of the electoral system, in order to get the best answers we're talking about. Through changes to those laws ahead of us, the SPS will insist, as it has now insisted, that local elections be separated from parliamentary elections. So there's no dilemma, it has nothing to do with the next election. It has to do with principle and attitude. Why do we think that? Because local elections are such that they have local issues. It is important there who will improve the municipal infrastructure, the schools arrange, etc., that people compete accordingly. State issues are important here, and to put it in a pile, locals come in a shadow of those great ones, and in a way, there can be no real expression of the voter's desire. This is our attitude, and we'll stand up for it all the time. It has nothing to do with this election. These elections are next year. Was there a dilemma about whether local elections? Local elections are discussed when someone comes to mind. The law says exactly when local elections can be called. No one has proposed amending the law, and no one else can get out of it. Therefore, there is no more dilemma whether it is for this local election, whether it is for this election or not. It's about principle. In other developed democratic countries, half of the parliamentary mandates are being conducted locally and nothing is strange. It's the essence of our position and our commitment. We believe that this will further reflect the essentials of organising local self-government and involving citizens in matters of importance for local self-government. They're next year. I think this is the first government since 2000 to hold the entire mandate, but Mr. Minister, and the first government in which the Socialists are, you see now you've had nothing to do with it, and it's going to stick to the way we're supposed to follow the law. It's just that if there's no dilemma, our attitude is that, and we're going to fight for that attitude, to separate. It doesn't matter if it's this election or not. The right thing to do is to regulate the election through legislation. It's simple, we announce that subject. We will vote for this, but we consider this only, as you yourself said, one step towards a much more serious and better system of elections that corresponds to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58331	18 minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Minister Milan Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58332	In principle, I agree with everything you said, Mr. Petronievich. I would take the opportunity to comment on a few of the views that you have made regarding these signatures that are still gathering. So we had in the register 600 and some parties before the law was amended. We had a series of unresolved issues of the status of these parties, their existence, and there were those who were no longer alive, there were, right to tell you, those who had double records, we even had parties with the same names. It's amazing, but the parties with the same name and very well-known politicians have actually been signed in. There have been a number of unresolved open issues that have brought into question the behaviour of the state authority at any stage that could be opened to the existence of the political party and the affairs it does. We did this Law on Political Parties. Unfortunately, the National Assembly refused to allow a register of political parties to be conducted. Today we have problems when a decision is to be made on when a conflict occurs within the party, and you remember it was also with the SPS in due time. Now it was the DHSS case. You just have a certain number of people, you have a set but you don't know if he's a majority or a minority of some group that's completely unknown to you, and it's unknown because the amendments here have been found that the Ministry can't run a branch register, so problems are emerging. In spite of that, this new law solved a series of problems, started with the ones I was talking about, and imposed some standards concerning the public of work, so in the end, it predicted a mechanism that no longer needed to pass a new law. It is the mechanism that, every eight years, the register itself is being cleaned up, by proving once again the existence of political life of Serbia. What was a big surprise was a large number of national minorities. Out of total, I think it's 73, don't hold my word, inscribed, I think 45 is a party of national minorities. Very surprising, on the one hand, but it can be said to be positive, which proves the relationship of the Republic of Serbia to politically organised minorities. We should point out that politically organized minorities are absolutely free, which in some ways gives a boost. The system is such that it encourages politically organized minorities. I believe that after the next re-registration, which will happen eight years after this first one, there will be no 20 games left at the top of your head. At that time, it is realistic to suspend the collection of signatures, and purely practical reasons have prevented measures to propose the cancellation of the signature, as I fear that 50 parties would appear on some lists in the local elections. That would motivate such activities. That would cause problems in practice. Then why should we expose ourselves to such problems at such a sensitive moment as the elections? It's not necessary to keep collecting signatures. We've had until now, we've had all these years, so let's keep it until that registry clears up completely, and I'm sure after the next cycle, it'll clear up even more. As for the overa, I agree, overa in itself is causing certain problems. Of course, it's an overa in accordance with the Act of Verification of Signatures, Prescriptions and that overa is in units of local self-government, as a trusted business of state administration, and in courts. So people can choose where they're going to verify. The overa has always been at special prices prescribed by the minister in charge of the affairs of the judiciary. It is important because of this, my opinion was from the beginning that we have a problem with the doubts expressed by citizens in the direction of our political system and my idea was to remove everything that caused even the slightest doubt and, if you remember when the mayor's election turned out to be quite concrete, Ivica Dacic, allegedly supported another candidate for the election. Ivica Dacic neither supported him, nor signed anything, etc. I think that sometimes you just wonder who one of us is when, in some papers, the abused name and last name and in that, maybe we're founders who for any party, maybe we've supported, the jokes work, maybe someone deliberately took your name or someone else's name and supported someone else. Then when it goes public, then it's said, that's what these political systems look like, and that's why I asked to introduce this opa signature and aware of the problems for the political parties but I'm sure the overa sign a good mechanism yes. And even though we've had several criminal proceedings now, we've had a series of skills at the Department of State and local self-government when registering political parties. There were attempts to abuse despite the signature. So that's the reason for the signing, and what you said, the finding of resignation is the reason why we changed that it was no longer a finding but a clear determination of the appropriate majority in the Assembly is that, because there was a large number of abuses at the bar. It happened, the president of the assembly came in, and he said, I'm saying, I'm resigning on this one, and it hurts my stomach, and it's coming out, and it's over, and you've been having a mess ever since because you don't know what a real resignation is. At the time, no one was competent to answer that question, it was merely the opinion of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, but an opinion under the Law on State Administration that is not binding. That's why we had this galamatias, and I would say, an incredible state between 2004 and 2008 when nothing really knew. It didn't know who the president of the municipality was, in fact it was mostly known, but the rest of it didn't know anything, we had double budgets, we had fights, we had a councilman like this and nobody knew them alive. That is why we have reached out to a judicial protection mechanism which is otherwise a very high standard and is not so common at European level, and we welcome it. And we predicted that there would still be a decision on the mandate to have this legal act that is actually a political, legal character, against which an appropriate legal remedy could be made to the competent court. That gave us great results. We had a case that there was a split party that had almost the most councilors in all of Serbia at the time and when you look at no local self-government fell because of it. No local self-government fell because of it but 610 mandates were disputed and 570 was solved well, indeed for one 5% of them thirty and some courts were a little strangely judgmental, I admit, but it's not mine. 5% was a little weird, but it's not my place to comment on it. It's a matter of judgment, but when you look at 95% it's done that, and imagine now that there weren't any of these mechanisms to make it look like it, let's write down the minister now, so when you get it from the minister, if you like, you accept if you don't like it, you don't accept. So, that's why it is and yet in the National Assembly it is different, it can't be the president of the Assembly here to come and say that someone has stopped the mandate just like that here is still different in front of the bright public, in front of the cameras, and in the local self-government, there's really been a lot of things going on. I agree, you said very nicely that these changes are no fundamental reform, they are only respect for what we have heard from the professional public, what the Constitutional Court has established are the EU's international standards, but defacto this will prove to be our need if we continue with further changes because we will certainly get a better quality life in local self-governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58333	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58334	Mr. Minister, the President-in-Office, I believe you are aware that today you have brought to the National Assembly the worst possible solution regarding local elections. There is no worse way to edit the system of changes of local self-government than the one you have proposed. Since, as Minister, you have advocated a completely different system of election of councilmen, it has been expected for you not to come to the National Assembly and defend this against which you have been intimately all along. It's something to judge, of course, the public and all the MPs. This bad solution, which will create huge problems with local self-government after the next local elections, has brought down all the principles on which a parliamentary system should rest, starting from the National Assembly to the local parliaments. Nor will the citizens wonder who will be their representatives in the national parliaments, nor will political parties, as entities, active participants of a parliamentary system, have more influence in creating political life in local self-governments, as will be, of course, after parliamentary elections. So neither the participation of citizens nor parliamentary parties, i.e. Their participation will be defiled by one of these systems. Eventually, who will have a certain impact on this election process will be the tops of individual municipal, city committees, which is certainly not in the interest of all political parties. It will only create problems and local self-government, as well as in all political parties participating in the election process. What you've suggested is the infirmity of the state and this government. These are not solutions that came as an expression of the political will of the state of Serbia or the government of RS, but these are solutions that are suggested, not to say, imposed on the side. Now that you're all mixing all the possible standards that you've talked about here today, the participation of citizens, which you often like to talk about in the electoral process, the political forces, as the subjects of parliamentaryism, to the fact that MPs and committees are the owners of their mandate, until the citizen needs to know who he chooses, you get this kind of disastrous without saying the freak law that you've proposed here. He's troublesome for a number of reasons. Before I go over to explain those reasons, you said in the opening statement, this is where I suggested what the National Assembly is willing to accept. Mr. Minister, it's not the National Assembly where a political decision is made on what is to be adopted. You should have been more correct to say the right thing, I suggested here what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was willing and able to accept. What is now being proposed here is the failure of the government of the RS, not the National Assembly. There will be serious debate here in the National Assembly on this law, to point to the consequences we will produce. In objective terms, you have proposed a law imposed on you, unable to make as a government a single solution that would bring political change into electoral legislation. Don't talk about what the opposition was offering or what it wasn't. You are the government and you create a political life, you propose, and opposition parties or DSS when in power, it will come out with all the solutions, how best to edit the electoral system. In addition, in 2007, when this law was passed, when the current Law on Local Elections was passed, you were a minister at the time and you proposed solutions that are now changing here, and among other things, blanco resignations, as well as contracts that need to be correct and said, created stability in local self-government and prevented major problems that could arise after the 2008 local elections. Exactly the fact that we had this and the judicial protection of the electoral right, they provided stability. All that, and I'm going to say the problem and the judicial protection that you're changing here, will create huge problems in the next period. We will come to a situation following the next local elections that a large number of settlements in RS will not have their representatives. I'd like to be denied this finding of mine. The fact is, it can be theoretically, that from one single populated place, because it is the will of the majority, to one local committee of any party, they are all committees. No village, in any municipality, from north to south of Serbia, has any councilors. Hypothetically, that's possible. The mandate must respect the order and it is a matter of the political will of certain municipal committees. The other problem that will be created in this situation is, the moment the committee is so elected and his mandate is confirmed by the local self-government assembly, at the moment any other than the moral connection you speak of, there is no connection with the political party. The political party cannot in any way influence political processes in certain local self-governments, except appeal to the conscience or expression of the programmes of people elected in local self-government. You exclude or derogate the influence of political parties as actors in political life for which we have stood up for all who fought for the interstellar system in RS. You once made a statement that you are actually in favour of reducing the impact or reducing the impact and derogating the influence of political parties, and strengthening the influence of citizens. Let's see where the citizen asks himself in the election process. Nothing. He doesn't wonder about anything. No one will be elected in his place, nor is he asked to assess the political work of individual committees, and on this basis he values whether he will be elected or not. He's completely left out of the election cycle. Mr. Minister, this is an extremely undemocratic law that you have now proposed here. This is five steps back from the state we now have. Furthermore, competition has been completely destroyed, there is no competition within political parties or between political parties. Give me an example of what the citizens will be competing on here. Based on the party's assessment, who is at the top of the list, when his list is confirmed by the city's or municipal electoral commission. He doesn't have to move his finger in a political campaign, he'll be a councilman. Finger to move. Whoever's underneath it won't lift a finger, because he knows he won't be a councilman. That's what you've created with this law. Then where is the quality of this electoral system offered here? Mr. Minister, when, without any measure and criteria, you adopt all possible suggestions that are offered, you have to get a little courage, sometimes a little courage, for days, you're getting ready, people, with us a little different, a more specific situation, we can't accept everything right now that you're imposing on us. Local self-government in Serbia, our political culture, conditions and problems are such that at the moment we cannot accept it. If we accept your standards in a situation where we don't have the strength and the political will to change the electoral system, we'll get this kind of problem and this kind of chaos. This is a worse solution than we had in 2007, and there will only be problems once this law is passed. As for some concrete solutions, Mr. Minister, I would refer to a number of things you've highlighted here as technical adjustments, and they can create serious problems. I agree with you that the introduction of judicial protection of electoral law was a step in the right direction in 2007 and that it created one stability in resolving the electoral disputes that arose. I agree with you that there was, to a lesser extent, an unequal court practice and that created problems for certain congregations to collapse. I agree that it is necessary for this case-law to be evened and that the Administrative Court is probably as a single court and that at the level of the RS it should be. Mr. Minister, we have a serious problem, the administrative court has 30,000 cases in operation. To what extent the Court of Justice will be able to respond to these obligations, knowing the entire procedure to be conducted and knowing that the cases are done on the date of reception of the case. These problems may arise immediately after the local elections, they will probably not be the extent to which they have been so far, because there are not these kinds of disputes relating to blank resignations and contracts. There'll be other kinds of disputes. The administrative court is overcrowded and this is a serious problem that had to be addressed when approached, not taken into consideration, probably, for an analysis of the subject. The second thing, Mr. Minister, is not clear why you have extended the application of the provisions of Articles 6 and 8 after the next local elections. It's very inconsistencies. If you are already in favour here publicly that immediately after the term of office has ceased, the first next committee member on the list must be given a term of office, you now have in practice in Serbia the situation for the committees to stop the mandates. If you wanted to be consistent here today and principled, then that provision to apply. Someone in Serbia will stop the mandate, they should get the next one, if you wanted to be consistent here. By copying the same solutions from the Law on People's Messengers, it doesn't justify you in any way. Is the problem that you treat two different types of choices the same way. that you will show in practice, that problem will prove very quickly. As far as the deadline cuts, the truth works, Mr. Minister, the interpretation you've given is very tense. The constitution speaks of deadlines for elections for MPs, no deadlines for local self-government elections are mentioned. That defines the Law of Local Self-Government. Perhaps the better solution was to leave a deadline that had been up to 90 days. Why does everything have to be like a whole other kind of choice? So this alignment has nothing to do with the Constitution and that's what the public needs to say. It has to do with meeting deadlines for elections for MPs. I'd like to add more, here's your secretary of state, we had a Committee on Local Self-Government yesterday, and I'd like to point out one problem. At the question of a member of the Committee on Local Self-Government - whether the parties are obliged to collect signatures, your State Secretary said they are not obliged, but simply groups of citizens. We have now heard entirely other information from you, that the parties must collect signatures. As far as the DSS is concerned, that's not a problem, but probably members of the board who were interested yesterday to hear the point of view about it now will be surprised to hear other information. So the fact is that you're passing a law that's been executed by local self-government, which will create great instability, which will create space for local authorities to be replaced much more often and much faster than the case has been today. You can now say that the parties will take care of whom they choose in local parliaments, but, Mr. Minister, having so far practice in mind, that there have been a large number of cases of changes in political uniforms and a much larger number of cases of changes in political uniforms on local self-governments, even in a situation where the parties had protection mechanisms through contracts they had with the committees, what is only now going to be the reason? These changes were mostly motivated by some corrupt reasons, not just changes in political ideology. You know that very well. The moment the councilman becomes aware that he no longer has a relationship with the party, and he was not elected by the citizen, so there is no kind of responsibility to the electoral unit or citizens, he can then consider who he will give his support to, unrelated to whoever suggested him. You've turned the party into one channel only to propose. The party here serves only to propose to someone and there is a whole mission of political parties in Serbia, according to your proposal, ending. Not to mention that local self-government is in a catastrophic state, precisely thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The fact is, you've denied the enormous resources that she has under the law, breaking the law. The fact is now that you've passed a law that's disastrous for a large number of local self-governments, and that time will show, the Law on the financing of local self-government. You also apply a concept without any control, which will bring local self-government to the lowest possible level compared to the times when a multiparty system is introduced. Mr. Minister, this is the failure of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the government where you sit. I must say, this is also your personal failure. It was certainly natural for you not to go to the National Assembly with such a bill. All responsibility for what will be after the election will be upon you. One more question, Mr. Minister. The public mentions the separation of local and parliamentary elections. We have heard various theories here, that it is the most favourable solution for citizens to choose representatives of local self-government. I'm asking you here, Mr. Minister, as a lawyer who knows this issue, do you agree with the current Constitution and the law? Is it possible to call early local elections without stopping the mandates, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, in all local self-government? It may if the President of the National Assembly flagrantly violates the Constitution and the law and shortens the mandates to local self-government. It's the only way to break the law and the Constitution and say -- what do we care about that level of government, we want local elections. It is known that the mandates of the local congregations are ending. If it doesn't ambush for three months and the budget hasn't been adopted. There's no third. After that, a temporary organ is introduced, after which elections are discussed. How can the National Assembly shorten someone’s mandate? With what authority? Not the National Assembly, but the president of the National Assembly. Please, Minister, since this is where the controversy is being brought about, we all agree it's absolutely irrational and that it's a waste of funds, but legally it's not possible. That's the DSS's attitude. As someone in charge of interpreting regulations in the area of local self-government, it would be good for you to give us this agreement here in the National Assembly and to cut off this controversy in public whether it is possible, if someone is going to pressure the president of the National Assembly to sign the disbandment of all congregations and extraordinary local elections at some point in the night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58335	16 minutes and 25 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58336	I don't think I can help, Mr. Palalic, to cut off some discussion by saying what I think. I, of course, mean, there's no dilemma there, that I can't cut the mandates. If such a decision were to be made, it would have to go with a change of law, because it has been done so before, with the fact that it always remains a little bit partly disputed with the position of the Constitution, given that the term of office lasts for four years, but I suppose that in itself would not be a problem. We've had such a practice before to change the law at the same time. But without amending the law, it's clear to everyone, I don't think there's a need for anyone to specifically interpret that they can't dissipate the units of local self-government and to organise elections sooner than it is when the mandate expires. About what's better, what's cheaper, it's a topic, it's popular to say – not by any chance, it's expensive and politically very risky to try to discuss differently. But we all know here, I don't think the arguments in favor of local elections are seen separately from the competition at the republican level are unfounded. It's simple, you have to measure both, so you don't have to easily reject it as a bad idea. At the very least, it's a matter of political decision. As things stand, and as I interpret events, there will be no separation of choices, as far as I know. But perhaps in some quieter atmosphere after the election, you can talk about what one is wearing and what the other is wearing and whether this savings is really so great compared to what is obtained by changing the quality, which is undeniable when the elections are separated. As you've told us all this, we've got some dark days ahead of us. But it's not like that. So, let's start from the beginning. A lot of what you said here refers to the fact that there are no more blank resignations. It's simple, it's a reality. I don't want it to turn out that I'm up front, but everyone who thought about it knew that the blank resignations would be lifted. So when the first initiatives came before the Constitutional Court, I also informed the government of my opinion that the blank resignations would be abolished. To be honest, I've been here before, and I've talked to both you and other party officials about reforming the electoral system. Because I think the reform of the electoral system should still be the fruit of some consensus. Our society wasn't ready, our political actors weren't ready to change the electoral system. Then came the Constitutional Court's decisions. It's completely pointless for them to say that, in my opinion, it's completely pointless. The Constitutional Court's decision is what it is and we must respect it. It's not worth it now to laminate over the fact that there are no more blank resignations. Personally, I think it's very good that there's no blank resignation. It's a prerequisite for a better government. The prerequisite for a better authority is that there is no blank resignation. If I have, this side here, this most of them here, if I have their resignations in my pocket, I really don't have to worry about the quality of the law I'm making, the work I'm doing, the behavior, in the end, in the National Assembly, the attitude towards these people, if I have their blank resignations in my pocket. If there are no blank resignations, each of them will call me and ask me – Mr. Minister, why is this act not signed; Mr. Minister, why does this law contain these shortcomings; Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister, etc. I deeply believe that it is the freedom of people to have their mandate, that the owners of these people's mandates, who choose executives, are a condition for executives to have a responsible relationship with their jobs. It just seems natural to me. In the event that you have blank resignations, then practically representatives of citizens in any parliament are not representatives of citizens, but are representatives of political parties that each of them can replace overnight. It doesn't matter if they think something, what they think, is simple, they can shut down completely, for four years, they can sleep through, it's all one thing. So their voices are understood. So I don't understand why? There's no need to really regret the blank resignations. So blank resignations are one bad thing that's been in our political system for a while, that was a political decision. The time has come when the conditions have matured to free ourselves from the blank resignations and therefore there is no need to mention them anymore. Is this system that we have the best possible, when we don't have a blank resignation? Of course not. I suggested a different system, but I don't know who would vote it. You wouldn't go first. Therefore, it is not worth it, within the ruling coalition, was not consent. Not to be some prophet, but what we have now, it was known to be a year ago. It was clear to everyone that the list would be locked, everyone was clear that the blank resignations would be lifted. I don't know if anyone really had the illusion that we'd get to the moment of EU candidacy without it. I'm sorry that Mr. Petronijevic isn't here, since I've been having a lot of discussion with him at the time about these things. Basically, this is a natural, logical trail of things, but it's ten times better than it was. It's bad for political parties, I'm really sorry, but it's good for the state. Parliament without a blank resignation is a parliament in the right sense. And if the political party has any problems, let the political party solve it within itself. My proposal is very clear. When we go to the elections, we say to our candidates that they are the most honest and honorable people and that's how we offer them to the citizens. It's always been like that. I still say about Mrs. Comic, who sits behind me, I will always stand behind her as a candidate of the party, because I know that she will always represent that policy and believe in her morality and in her honor. I know she won't decide to change her party uniform half the time, no matter how much she didn't like something inside her party. So it's a matter of people the political party is running for office. I really don't blame someone for running for people who had a fight with their party leader five days later and went to another party. He told the citizens five days ago – vote for him, he will represent your interests, he is an honest, honorable man, there is no dilemma, it is the best of the best. Let's be honest. It's hypocritical. We run to the citizens of Peru Periæ and tell the citizens – he's a wonderful man, and then we say - You sign my resignation, I don't believe you're a good man, I think you're a potential hostappler, so let me have your resignation in my pocket. It's an unprecedented hypocrisy. And now we're all suffering because there's no more of those resignations. I didn't hear anyone say he went to the polls and told the citizens – if citizens, vote for this list, although I must say there are some who will change the party's uniform for 5,000 euros. So that would be fair then. But no, when the elections are, mine are the most honest, and then out of my sexes they leave, they form the second constituency club, so you say, "Oh, my god, the hook goes." Well, wait, you're paying for the staff policy you've been running on your own. When a party leaves the council, MPs, the man who signed that list needs to resign at the moment. That's the man's problem, that's the local manager's problem, that's the problem with whoever's behind those people. We prefer to be able to run and paja duck and the citizens to swallow it, and we don't have any consequences for it. That's something we obviously want. It won't work. So now, when the political party sits down and says – this gentleman will be an DS MP or another party, the burden of that decision will be borne by the party for the next four years. If she was so bold as to offer citizens someone who has not been stable for six months, then the party will pay for offering citizens a man who is not morally stable and who is corrupt. So let the political parties try to choose quality people. Every party knows how to deal with these things, how much trouble the party has, let them think about it on their own. The right to tell you, I think this is very good, very useful for Serbia, that it will increase the quality of political life in Serbia. That's why I really can't accept your remarks regarding laminate over the fact that the councilman is now free. Thank God he's finally free. I accept that this is not the happiest electoral system, because when it's not tied up by a blank resignation, it's a question of what binds it? If it is of high moral quality, it binds him to gain the trust of a party whose ideas he believes in. So, Goca Comic has believed in DS ideas for 21 years and when she is not the happiest of some solutions and when she is, but generally she has tied her political destiny to DS and obviously has no intention of changing it. So I'm going back to this second part where I kind of agree with you. I'm going back to this question - what's it all about? It is undeniable that we will not have problems with moral people who will respect the trust the party has given them, which will have a proper relationship with its neighbours and citizens, because everyone knows that you have been elected from the DSS list. I don't think you, Mr. Palalycho, are ready to change your party uniform, because you'd be ashamed of your family. I know you very well, we've known each other for a long time, and I'm convinced there's no way for a man to change you. Therefore, your party with you has no problem not having a blanco resignation and you are a moral man enough. Maybe it needs some extra mechanism, not for you, but generally. I agree with that, and that's why I suggested that it be chosen by election units, I suggested that we personalize this system. But for that, including your party, no one was. We're halfway there now. As Mr Petronijevic said, this is good, this may be half way, but this is not the final reform of our political system that will lead to full quality, complete personalisation, etc. So in that sense, your objections are justified, but they are not justified when you say that this is not good. This is good, it's just that this is half a step, which is not a whole step. At this point, it's a political reality. If political reality were different, maybe we could go all the way. Again, I say, do not accuse the government of this, because I have been holding talks with all parties, not only the ruling one, and the issue of the electoral system is not the issue of the ruling party, the issue of the electoral system is the political consensus of most political parties. So, I've been to your place, I've been to LDP, I've been to the gentlemen at SNS, I've been to all parties of the ruling coalition. Unfortunately, they didn't get these warnings that I gave, that we were going to get into this system that we came into. I say again, this is a good step forward. Don't let us regret the blank resignations anymore. The greatest burden has been lifted, and these are blank resignations, a locked list. Frankly, one thing again is wrong, you say – this is terrible, the political party is wondering who will be on the list, etc. Of course she's wondering. It's the political party that's offering. Unlike the system so far, the political party is no longer as powerful as it will be. I was against that power of political parties. It was completely insane to me, and that's why I gave that statement. We really need the negotiations of a political system that will reduce the power of political parties, because the power of political parties in Serbia is based on the political weakness of citizens, because one Corps of power can only be shared between political actors, and these are political parties, they are citizens. If the political parties take most of it, the small part remains for the citizens. I think there's a disproportionate part of us in favor of political parties. While they were blanco resignations, that part was 95%, citizens exhibited their political being only one day in four years, and that's the day the elections were held. So that's my attitude. Now that rock changes a little bit, resignations are lifted, parties are losing one piece of power, and that is the power that after the election, instead of MPs has party soldiers. That's good. By changing the electoral system, we would balance fully. That's the same thing you're doing for the election commission. It is not normal for RIK to be a representative of political parties, as it is not a question of political parties resulting from the elections. The result of the election is the sole issue of the number of votes that anyone wins in the elections, not the agreement in the election commission whether we will or will not cancel this polling post. It's a question of the law whether any polling stations are being annulled. So in that sense, I was in favor of reducing that power and it must be reduced, Mr. Palalic. Whatever we're talking about and doing, this is what's going on and this is going to happen. It will never come back blankly, and the electoral system will change, which I'm 100% sure of, because this is the first time the party has ever hurt. For the first time, the parties from a completely comfortable position have come into a position that is quite injure and that you have described, which is how to motivate people, above all, how to implement politics on the ground. But I guess it's more important that the country and the citizens get hurt, even if the parties do. I'm sure you can get to a system that won't hurt either. We're about halfway there, when there's a proper majority and there's a little bit of a consensus, then there's going to be that change. As far as the Administrative Court is concerned, I felt that the Administrative Court was good for equating practices, on the one hand. On the other hand, I received very clear assurances, because it is not true that we did not ask this question, given that the former assistant minister has spent a short period of time in the Administrative Court and that I am very familiar with the situation in the Administrative Court. I also asked, knowing that there are a number of cases, especially those of which we lawyers are the most fugitives and who do not like anyone, to solve, but they say that they are accumulated objects and that they have one dynamic that will very soon clear the administrative court of these cases and that they will, with that number of judges who are relatively small, I do not know exactly how small they are, that they will be able to manage everything that is in their jurisdiction without a problem, including what they are now in jurisdiction, and what was once in the jurisdiction of the District Court. There's no reason not to trust those who are more competent than me. Because people deal with it, they know it, they do the laws, and this is their attitude. I can only trust them and I don't think there's any reason it shouldn't be like they said. In any case, unifying practices is very important. We had one 5% of weird decisions and it would be good if we didn't have any weird decisions in the future, only if it didn't cause any other doubts, and for that there's no, I mean, no need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58337	This concludes the morning part of the session. National MPs Arsic Veroljub, Zoran Krasic and Jovan Palalic were reported in the system. You have no right to a replica. Only one of the MPs would have the right to a replica is me, and that would be quite pointless, given the minister's exposure. I'm setting a break of one hour. The work continues at 15.00 hours. The first reported is MP Arsic Veroljub or MP Zoran Krasic, depending on who is registered in the electronic system at 15.00 hours. Thank you. Another extra notice. Today we're just going to do a debate to the end on this point that's currently under search. Tomorrow, the Assembly will work, but we will not be in session, as we will not be sitting on Monday, but, based on the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we will be sitting on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is where we begin our afternoon meeting where we left off in the morning. The word has been given by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Mr Veroljub Arsic, Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every minister seems to be trying to make while the minister is doing something for the citizens to remember him by. Now it's often that, perhaps, something made out of the best intentions, but you remember it as bad. In a discussion that has also been a frequent exhibition of both the minister and the individual MPs themselves, both from the ruling parties and from the opposition, the change of the electoral system is constantly being mentioned, so now I cannot explain for these few years what has changed in people's heads, and they are constantly changing the electoral system. We had a majority electoral system at the local level. It seems to me that it was voted in 2000, and then it was proposed to work locally on a proportional system. Mr. Minister, then a national MP, voted to introduce a proportionate system for local elections. Then certain shortcomings were observed, especially when it was a matter of dividing the authorities into executive and legislative, so the system was slightly reformed and we now have the current Law on local elections whose changes and additions are being made. It will mostly be that there is a controversy whether it needs a majority or proportional system to rely on the state through the so-called introduction of electoral units, but in the whole story, I think that one and the other electoral systems have their shortcomings and their shortcomings. We also need to talk a little bit about the basic shortcomings of the majority electoral system that is constantly being proposed and propagated here. It could have worked in the majority single-circular election cycle provided that the old Constitution remained. However, now the Constitution has been changed, the legislator cannot participate in the executive government, so I am asking a simple question. Every party at the local level is running, at least I hope most of them do so, will run for their best people, the most prominent, the most educated, the most capable, so that they can achieve as good a result as possible in the elections themselves. The fact is that these people who are going to run and those who are most eligible for executive power, where by accepting the majority single-circuit system by local self-government, we're just going to make a mess, nothing more because when it goes to executive power, we're going to have to move the elections in those election units from where they've been elected, so in two weeks, we're going to have some other majority, and then the power changes again, and then in two weeks, some third majority and so on. The essence of the electoral law and the Law on Local Self-Government is that local self-government can work smoothly, all to achieve goals that improve the quality of life of citizens living in the territory of local self-government. If we play with electoral laws, make sure that quality local self-government doesn't exist. Let us finally break this practical story because it is extremely difficult to organise elections in this way and exercise power in local self-government. The second is that every party in power will have to pray to God that its support committee member does not fall bricks or pots on his head, so God forbid he is able to perform the duties of the board because then he will have to re-examine the elections, so it all depends on who is in power at that time and in local self-government and in the Republic, so he will start the asphalting machines, so the crowds will start to give away detergents, oil, powder, etc. Mr. Minister, we live in such a time, so that's why I'm asking you to stop this story about the majority electoral system. There is another problem, and that is the basic democratic rule – one man, one vote, because in those units local self-government will be voted by the committees. You have violated the sovereignty of the citizens, where thousands have given confidence to a candidate, because his vote is worth in that case as well as a committee member who received only 100 or 200 votes. That's the problem. The problem is that, in the majority electoral system, the will of citizens is not translated into the assembly of the local self-government unit. Don't try to stay remembered for it anymore, but try now this law that is existing to lead at least to that technical level that it can work. As ridiculous as that may seem to you, in essence this law is nothing more than a alignment with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, everything else is just a mere other alignment with certain legislation. In Article 4. The bill again remained the famous option that every candidate on the list must support at least 30 citizens who guarantee it with their signature. Believe me, Mr. Minister, the SNS has no problem with citizens who will support its lists, but I think this is too much to remain in the law, especially since you as a government official and resolute minister here told us, MPs, when a new law on political parties is passed that these signatures will no longer be in the laws on local and republican elections. Now you say that many political parties have registered – 72 or 73, I do not want to go into that story and that there is yet another cleansing of the political party law to experience in order for it to exist. We have submitted an amendment to this article and before you decide to read the Law on the financing of political entities, it may seem more likely to you then, that this is possible because voters who do not cross a certain number of votes put up a deposit and if they do not pass that deposit becomes the income of the budget of local self-government units. I don't think someone's just going to collect committee candidates just to take part in a local game, to raise some funds from the budget of the local self-government units, and not to achieve any result. In Article 43, there is a mere alignment with the Constitutional Court's decision, because the Constitutional Court has announced a member of the 43rd unconstitutional. The member of the 43rd essentially predicted that political parties would determine who would be a post-election committee on the basis of the number of mandates received. Article 47. – resignations again. With the fact that here the councilman decides and submits the president of the Assembly's resignation in court without the overa being more than three days old. It's one solution to finally erase the blank resignations. However, in Article 8, which concerns Article 48, whose provisions will apply after the first local elections. Mr. Minister, as far as I know, Article 43, as I said, was put out of the hands of the Constitutional Court's decision. Article 48, I think the Constitutional Court has already initiated proceedings, on its own for the assessment of its constitutionality, and I don't know if it's over or not. If he isn't, he will soon. So you're delaying the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision if, in transitional and final terms, this remains to be applied only after the first subsequent elections. Mr. Minister, there's one more thing to say. Here you have foreseen in the amendments and additions, that only the mayor, or the president of the municipality, or their deputies, can again be council members, if their term of office ceases, or if there is a vacant seat in that committee group. I think that you should have covered these changes and additions, not only but all those whose function as a councilman has ceased because it is incompatible with the new function to which they are appointed, appointed and elected by the decision of the local self-government unit, so that the law finally balances all those whose mandate ceases on the basis of incompatibility of functions, and based on decisions from that unit of local self-government. When it comes to Article 11 and Article 9, as well as other members concerned with the jurisdiction of the court to decide on complaints concerning both the local elections and the termination of the committee's mandate, I think that Mr. Ministers should have set a deadline for the Administrative Court to act on this matter. We have a situation that the Administrative Court is not acting for several months today -- two, three, four or five, and that already the Constitutional Court, having carried out its decision, in the same matter and under the same Law on Local Elections, has already set deadlines. Finally, these deadlines should also be entered into by law, that no one can at last put pressure on these judges – whether someone will stop the mandate, when it will be decided on and whether to return the mandate. That's what you said yourself, Mr. Minister, that your ministry's opinion is not binding and that local self-government in law enforcement rules a whole circus. However, Mr. Minister, it could not have been done without you and your signatures, your opinions, your non-compliance with the law. I'll just mention the situation in a small municipality in Braničevsky County. It is about Golupac, how the minister treated the administrative court's decision and how he carried out through his opinion, in an illegal manner, his opinion. There is an alleged assembly majority who will be president of the assembly, who will be president of the municipality. Prior to that, a decision was made to suspend the mandate in the unit of local self-government for certain committees. They held a session of the Assembly at a hotel in Golubac. Two or three months after that session of the Assembly, the Administrative Court annulled the decision to suspend the mandate to the council and returned the units of local self-government to decide again. Mr. Minister didn't even give the local self-government unit a chance to decide on it himself, but he himself accepted and gave his own opinion that the Assembly held at the hotel was correct, although at that moment you did not have a decision by the Administrative Court which annulled the decision of the local self-government unit assembly. Why? The goal was to bring DS to power. This is boring to you, Mr. Minister, obviously, but it's an abuse of official office and there's documentation from the state authorities for that. Since you only gave your opinion, you didn't know how to carry out your opinion, so you brought in another illegal act. It is, that you have declared the seals of the municipality of Golubac invalid and you have given your self-titled president of the municipality authority to make new stamps, although according to the Seal Act, which you Mr. Ministers have also explained here in the Serbian Assembly, before the MPs – the seal of the unit of local self-government can only be declared invalid if it is damaged or, if that local self-government ceases to exist under the Law on territorial division between municipalities and cities. Or maybe you weren't there at the time, so you left that "Veselka" who likes to pet Ned Arneric's passports, faxymil, so the man banged and banged. That's what you take care of who you give your stamps to. The fact is, you've done damage to the municipality of Golubac and its councillors. You've made an artificial congregation majority. Now, Mr. Minister, how can anyone trust you on your honesty when you talk about laws, when the laws you've written yourself, your Ministry, are here to defend and explain to the MPs, you don't adhere to those same laws. You can write whatever law you want. The law can be good or bad. It's often more important, not what the law is, than who implements it. This is where this government looks to me, that's what it's all about. The SNS parliamentary group in Voting Day will not vote for this proposal to amend and supplement the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58340	The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58341	First, Mr. Arsic, all you know well that this has nothing to do with any truth about the Dove, as it has nothing to do with the truth, when one seal can be declared invalid. But I have no intention of giving you legal instruction. You said I should make an effort to remain remembered, i.e. That I will not remain remembered as the minister who changed the electoral system. You will remain remembered as a man who, after an entire afternoon debate, spoke first in the afternoon and totally missed the topic. Here, in the debate, no one ever mentions the majority electoral system. You've been talking for 10 minutes and wondering what we're laughing at. Don't be mad, we had fun. You 10 minutes kill yourself explaining how a majority electoral system is wrong. Thank you, we know without you. So, for 10 minutes, you talked about the majority electoral system and explained to me that I shouldn't bother to introduce a majority electoral system. Mr. Arsic, I really have no intention of introducing a majority electoral system, nor do I think of it. So the whole discussion from beginning to end was probably pretty important to you to spend your time saying that you were talking. I don't see what I'd even be answering to what you've been talking about, except to say that for the Dove that you've brought out is a bunch of lies. Those stories, the competent state authorities, you're talking to yourself and I don't know what audience. You know very well that in Golubac everything is as clean as in any other municipality of Serbia. In the last 3-4 years, as I am a minister, no single problem has been the Ministry made a mistake, and if you're such a big or brave man, let's make a committee here and bring the subject of the Dove, but that the public, now you'll resign and we'll bring in a list of lawyers and we can choose a joint one, and we can bring in the government of Cvians who went to your party, so let's see if the Golubac Minister has made a mistake or not. And then you'll resign and now you'll say nicely here that the whole world hears it well. We can add that to the seal, where you have so confidently explained to the people when one seal is advertised invalid. You're a big knower. I don't know how. I'm ashamed to say something I don't know. What makes you think you know now when the seal stops working. Bring the law and read it. Be so responsible for the people who look at you. What to say when you've been talking about a subject that no one has talked about alive for 10 minutes and you've been telling me about a majority electoral system. When did I mention the majority electoral system? Give me a transcript, I'll help you, presclipng. What do you need to help you get ready next time for a debate so you don't harass me or the public? What majority electoral system? Who was talking about the majority electoral system? Who are you with anyway, where have you been? Were you in this O.R. in the afternoon? I don't know what condition. You've been talking for 20 minutes now, and you're still threatening me with the authorities. Mr. Arsic, that's honesty and morality. Don't. I'm not that sister vein, that freedom of Seselj, and I don't know what, now you're talking about morality. (President: This isn't the topic) We've known each other here for so many years. I've known you for 15 years, 11 years since 2001 you've been in the Assembly. And today when I see you, I see this former leader. I can't even add you to the fact that you're in another party right now. You're talking about honesty now. Who's gonna believe me? They're gonna believe me, who's gonna believe you? Who's going to believe you?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58342	Mr. Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58343	Mr. Minister, I didn't mention election units, but you said you wanted to bring them in. Election units are being introduced for the majority electoral system. It's on one side. You said when it comes to the Duke there they have a mix, so it doesn't look like anything. Anyway, it's about the law. As far as the Golubac municipality is concerned, you don't need to hand me the paperwork, I have it. One more thing, Mr. Minister, when it comes to this community. The administrative court reached a verdict two months after the phantom assembly in which the mandates were returned to individual committees. Until the administrative court delivers judgment, the congregation remains the same as the congregation established. You, Mr. Minister, then took and acknowledged a session of the assembly held two months before the administrative court's decision. Are you saying that's not true? To get your party into power, you didn't know how to carry out your opinion, you annulled the seals. I guess it's the court in charge who's supposed to execute his decision, not the ministry. Why didn't you go through court? In addition, what if local self-government made a decision – we will make new stamps, a new appearance of the seal and what then. No, all that mattered was to get rid of all the eight municipalities that existed in Braničevsky County. There's only one thing you're not in charge of. At any cost, you wanted to be in each and every one of them. It's not good for your party or local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58344	Time. Thank you, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58345	I've got a little more of an authorised representative. One minute, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58346	You received the right based on the replica, therefore, you used the time, and the word is Minister Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58347	Mr. Arsic, I don't know since you became such a legal expert, which you don't agree to my offer. I'm saying again, everything in Golubac municipality is perfectly legal and I don't care if I'm bringing DS into power in Golubac, you're really not serious. I annulled Belgrade when it was supposed to be the president of the city's assembly, my party to the DS. No, I found it there in Dovec. I'm going to install DS into power now. What about you? You have ten municipalities in Serbia where I made decisions against the DS. The king who was so controversial, for the first year, all decisions were against the DS. When the facts and circumstances changed, I again made decisions under the law, always in accordance with the law. Which is nice, I'm telling you again, here I am proposing your excellent lawyer, here's one from the DSS to suggest. Let's see if I'm right about you resigning nicely. Don't threaten here, so of course it's the same principle. Let's see what happened in Dove. Don't waste it, Mr. Arsic. That's what you're saying. You don't know that matter first. No, it's too complicated for you to get into it just so casually. Second, if we bring all that stuff out here, so we can talk here by tomorrow, the public won't be able to, we need to sit ten hours in front of the TV to hear what who did it. The key problem in Golubac was the way in which the mandate was taken, and that's where the problems happened. The President of the Assembly kept making a mistake. It's not my fault the president of the assembly doesn't know the law. I'm just not really interested in who's gonna be in Golubac's power. I can't figure it out, that seeing things, like I wasn't interested in where the SRS would be, where you'd be, where the DSS would be, where there'd be who. Because on the first day, if I'd made one single decision under any party directive, I wouldn't have lasted four years of my term. That's what I've been doing, and every opinion is the same as my president, President Zoran Lonchar. No iot, no decimal has been changed in any legal situation that is identical. I'm not such an unserious man, you make one mistake and it's over. The situation is identical, you don't have all the situations in Serbia, number on your fingers, that's ten situations. In these ten situations you must have the same decisions. Sometimes it fits one, sometimes it fits the other. And even that controversial situation from the beginning of the term of office when we forced some municipalities to re-election the president of the Assembly, etc. This is the same situation has been repeated in the previous term and in the term of office when the minister was also Mr. Zoran Loncar. Even the same assistant minister led the world, even the assistant minister had an opinion, etc. So, I just don't know what you got yourself, Dove. On the Justice Committee, I sat down, whenever Mr. Palalic was invited, except yesterday because I couldn't be alone in Novi Sad, for local self-government, I always brought everything, so let's talk about everything. No, but they're being brought out here in the Assembly, like who likes it. He took away the minister's mandates and stories. On the Committee on Local Self-Government, no one's gonna talk about where the paperwork can be brought, so they can comb. Here, there's the board president, make an appointment, we'll bring the subject of the Dove, so let's see. The public will be there, let's see if I've done something wrong, and I'm not exactly that interested in the Dove and now I'm four years of hard work to bring down what I'm going to do to the Dove and change power and not legally, God forbid, do something. You're completely unserious with this whole story. I mean to tell you that where I wasn't? Let me tell you something else about this again. If you do this the way you do the afternoon discussion, if that's how you follow everything, then it's not worth talking about. So again, I'm telling you what a black majority electoral system. So, we all know here, that story, the public knows that story, it was in the paper, it was everywhere, and two years of talking about changing the electoral system. No one ever mentioned the majority electoral system, but I didn't say anything about Vojvodina either, as you said, I just said that we're not getting anything by taking two systems with the same flaws, the same advantages. We just put them together into one, so we get the same double advantage, double flaw, and that's not even a loss. Mr. Arsic, generally as far as the ministry's work is concerned, the opinions the ministry is giving. So, responsiblely, I never argue that any opinion is different in the same legal situation than any other opinion. So it's always the same, regardless of which party is in power. I think it's recently been in a duke's municipality, maybe one of my colleagues now knows, the right to tell you half of it, and I'm not following it, I'm just not getting into it, it's just the DS that lost power. Almost, I don't know now which municipality almost lost, DS power. So, I mean, she lost it to this sense, it wasn't by. Therefore, Mr Arsic, the Golubac was a very controversial and difficult situation, it was solely done in accordance with the law and exclusively in accordance with the court's decisions. There's no difference between the Dove and the King, and for, I don't remember what the municipalities are yet. Not for one single municipality in all of Serbia. I'm saying again, why are we discussing this? Come on, if you're such a lawyer, the Committee on Local Self-Government, Mr. Palalic, here I am asking him to appoint a board and resolve the issue of the Dove as I begged him when he was King. Let all the lawyers who want to come and settle the matter. It's so unserious. You can't even shake the subject you had in the afternoon, and you're talking about what happened a year ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58348	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58349	Okay, Mr. Minister, you can discuss whether or not your opinion is right or wrong. Is something in the matter or isn't it? I'm only going to deny you in one piece that your ministry was very interested. It is about the Ministry's opinion that only 24 hours younger than the administrative court's decision. So, literally, the court council has made a decision, a decision taken from the office and taken to your ministry to give an opinion and that's the case. Then don't tell me and say it was all legal and objective. Why didn't it go the regular way? Why wasn't that decision delivered to you by those who filed a complaint? Who gave you the decision of the Administrative Court? Maltene's 24 hours old. Then you verify the session that was held before the administrative court's decision. You can say that this president of the assembly doesn't know or knows, but it's called local self-government. You have no right to interfere that way. You don't have it that way. You don't determine who's going to be president of the assembly. If they don't know, if they haven't held a session, then disband it, so let the citizens choose the new president of the assembly and the president of the municipality and the new council members, not have no choice but to introduce others to power. That's the problem, Mr. Minister. You can also order sessions and committees here, these are facts. When there's a debate, no problem, I'll get you the paperwork, make sure you don't have to call that deputy of yours who did this to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58350	The word has a minister, but to finish with the Dove, be kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58351	There's no reason for me to be kind, I have the right as minister to answer. I have no intention of staying. Mr. Arsic, the Dove was a year ago, if I'm not mistaken. Now that you've come here after a year, you can't choose who chooses the president of the municipality and who chooses the president of the assembly. I'm telling you again, why don't you agree to my fair offer? I'll get the paperwork. Come on, if you're so brave and convinced that I did something illegal. Now what? What are you scrambling about here, and you're homecoming? Did your colleague advise you? Put together that entire legal team of your party to see where I did it against the law. The paperwork directly to the ministry, as anyone has, brings everyone. That's where a man can't defend himself. Don't remind you, I could have asked for formality, but there would have been the same archaic towards all the parties, I'm afraid this strict one can't bring anything, I'm afraid many of you would be unhappy, including your party. Including your party when reregistering, as well as unfortunately my party, etc. Do not start themes that simply do not support you. I'm telling you again, the handling of the Dovebca case in the ministry's position is absolutely correct and identical to the ministry's behaviour in each other's legal situation throughout Serbia. It takes four years, as long as I'm a minister, a year at Kostunica's government and here's three years here, I'm telling you, if you're so sure, Mr. Palalic is the chairman of the Committee, from the opposition DSS. I'm offering 160 times, are you sure I was wrong, come to the board, there's a public opinion there, and we'll bring the items and see where I did it wrong, but you'll take some severances. You can't be here for 25 minutes, we're talking about a pigeon who was a year ago, where you claim that I've put my entire political career on the line so that, please, I can get someone in Dove to power. I think if he came to me here right now, ten of the presidents of the municipalities, he'd probably guess from the second or third one who's right out of the Dove. You really think that's how I follow it, and I know and I have time to follow in the way that you follow. So, Mr. Arsic, those stories that I brought in this one or that one are not true. Every municipality and every situation that has occurred in the municipality is responsible for the people who are in the municipalities. Someone there changed the party's uniform, someone took someone's term of office, someone took someone's term of office illegally, someone told the court to get his term back. With us as it was, I can't remember, I can't, as you obviously don't, and the information you have is wrong, I can't remember what happened a year ago. I am so sure that I am offering on an unprecedented basis that I am resigning on that committee and that you are resigning as MPs, irrevocable that you will never appear in this House again unless I have done something that is not in accordance with the law. Where you'll be more honest. I guess I'm taking a lot more chances than you are. It's your route, it's your route, you've been changing from here to there, I can't do that, I'm here, so now.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58352	Please, there's no direct address. The word is from Mr Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58353	Mr. Novakovic, it's a good thing you let go of this lively discussion, but you had to warn your predecessors that there should be no more talk about a military cut, since you're not going to the military, and "Gazela" is in the remont, so it's illusory to talk about honesty. Anyway, let's move on to this law. There are several things that the proposing representative explained to us nicely that about 5,000 euros were per MP and councilman in the previous period, that Mr Markovic's DSS's decisive action did not run for Paj Patko, but Gordana Komic, for MPs. It's extremely good information, although I don't understand how it text messages to control the voter list, but good. We'll sort it out somehow. Now I have to move on to what's serious, and that's bullshit, cynicism and crime. I'm not talking about faces, names, and last names, so you don't have to worry. But I need to draw attention to you when those wetlands and some new ideas about defining the electoral system in the Republic of Serbia started. The majority election system was in 1990, the SPS had 180 and some MPs, whoever they put in the picture next to Milosevic, could have been elected either in the first round or in the second round. There were 80-90 doctors' care, all owned by their mandate, and it never happened that they voted differently from what Slobodan Milosevic ordered, or how he resolved the SPS. So that's not some criterion for freedom of mind that's caused by MPs. Next, I have to distract you, you remember when that law on local elections was passed, that's the one before, not this one, where the mayors were elected by the majority electoral system. Then it happened that the Barajevo municipality was left without the president of the municipality, and it was a city municipality, so the city's president was elected by the majority system. Of course, then I joked a little with the Constitutional Court, filed some initiatives, and we laughed sweetly at a public debate like all the swindles being made within a very developed democracy since 2000 on this side. Why am I saying this? For one simple reason, the town hall is not a unit of local self-government. I hope that hasn't changed yet. Local self-government units are municipalities and cities, and city municipalities are not. Now, in this law, you have still kept that there is an electoral commission unit of local self-government. I know you've left it to the City to regulate some things with its Statute, but the question is, how can the question of the electoral authority be resolved? But it's not the main issue, it's not the main lack of these changes and additions to this law, although in that part it doesn't change. I'm asking just one question, because now these guys are getting ready to renovate this gym, so instead of these out-of-date, well-washed money for these used units, we're going to get computers. I'm simply afraid that in the next election, one of the conditions for running will be to know the excels, the words, etc. Because how an MP would work on a computer if he didn't have that knowledge. It is possible in the following changes that, in addition to years of life, citizenship and residence, some additional knowledge may be sought. Why am I making a bit of a funny situation with this extra knowledge? Well, let me draw your attention to the fundamental lack, not only of these interventions on this law and that of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, but of the fundamental shortcomings of calling for the Constitutional Court's decision. Mr. Markovicu, the electoral right, and if seen as active and when viewed as passive, belongs to a group of relative rights from the human rights complex. It's not absolutely right. Absolutely the right to live, and the electoral right is relatively why the Constitution and the law, above all the Constitution, can prescribe appropriate conditions. With us is prescribed – 18 years of life, citizenship, residence. It's possible to prescribe other conditions. When a right is relative, then by law the National Assembly is authorized and obliged to prescribe a way of exercising that right without being intruded by that right. That's where I'm gonna end up. Why? Because there is no international standard for passive voting law. The only international standard exists for active voting law in the first Article 3 protocol. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, where it is said that within certain time limits, the power is required to call elections, to be direct, secret, etc., but that does not affect the status of the elected person. From this fundamental mistake goes on and we enter the story of who owns the mandate, which is a crazy story. Then we get into the story of whether the political party is subject to political life? Yes, Mr. Markovic, especially since 2006 and the new Constitution. Under the 1990s Constitution, the political party was defined only in the area where citizens exercise their right to political association. Under the 2006 Constitution, the political party has become a constitutional category and component, not only of political life, but of the state-of-the-art and constitutionally-legal position of the Republic of Serbia. Not only through the provision that it forms a political will, but through its active relationship in all political life. Disposing in this way of political parties is a kind of negation of the electoral will of citizens. You did what you did, because this only follows what was previously done with the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, so when I say this, I mean a few months ago, you can't find an appropriate example in parallel practice. You have no answer to the question that in one UK, where there is a majority electoral system, there are party whips that count, as Mrs. Hope Kolundji, whether MPs will come, how they will organise, how they will submit, whether they will be on a voting day, etc. etc. Mr. Markovic, speaking of these flyers, defectors, etc. You see, it affected all the parties. It wasn't just the SRS who made the list and when she ran, you were wrong in Krusevec, too, Mr. Markovic. You can open your eyes all you want, but the tycoons have much better eyes and have a much deeper pocket. Their interest is to control both the government and the opposition, so that organized crime and tycoons always have 126 here, and in local self-government, an appropriate number that neither the government nor the opposition is causing problems, and where is the electoral will? When asked where the election will be, you forgot the political parties. Since this is already one section that has been completed when you passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, I must remind you that those who observe you in 2006, in view of Article 102(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, they did not say it should be thrown out, but was convinced by Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica that this is necessary because of the phenomenon of Karic, the purchase of the mandate. Then it is said, yes, let it remain, apply it. Later, in 2007, Mr. Markovic, when we talked about the resignations and contracts, that the contract would be a confirmation of free will per councilman, so it came. Meanwhile, it has changed because support for pro-European parties has fallen. A dramatic example of the fall in support was in July 2008, when some parties, who won votes on the anti-European platform, became pro-European coalition parties overnight to secure power, where the camera, the power, the glue is, because in anticipation of pre-accession funds, anything can happen. Where is the electoral will of a respected citizen who comes out and circles on the day of the election? Who cheated on him? Is the one who cheated on him supposed to be responsible? No, I don't. Mr. Markovic, now about these geniuses of yours over there who wrote this, I now draw attention to inconsistencies. We will agree that electoral law, the status of MPs, etc. belongs to something that is publicly legal. If it's a public legal character, then an individual doesn't have it as a party in the process. You probably agree with that because an individual appears in a private legal relationship, in one legal relationship no individual appears. Or, to adopt this new terminology, it can be collateral damage or collateral gain. In Article 8, where you are changing Article 48, where you are allowing someone who has suspended the term of office of president, mayor or president of the municipality, to be able, under certain conditions, to regain the mandate of a councilor, I would draw your attention to indent 3. It is said that the candidate has applied to the election commission of the local self-government unit for the committee's mandate. It's already a private legal relationship. That shouldn't be, Mr. Markovic, in your law, and it's in the law because you've thrown out of the law the applicant of the list of candidates. Furthermore, apparently listening to the Constitutional Court, you said that in the 43rd list of candidates proposed by the political party coalition or the GG is a sacred letter regarding the order. You immediately made a few exceptions. It's with the parties of national minorities, there you made an exception. Then the question is, what rule is that when there are so many exceptions? Very problematic. It would be good to pay attention to article 5 of the amendment of this law. You're saying that in each of the first three places, the candidate must be a member of the less represented sex. What criterion do you use today after the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination and the Law on Equality, Gender Equality? What criteria do you use to determine the sex? Is the criterion of the birth certificate, the physical condition, what does the person concerned have, or is the criterion of how who feels? You're using your proud parades today to introduce the criteria of how anyone feels, so someone can be a biological male, but he feels like a woman. How are you going to resolve this situation in this bill of yours? I don't know why, Mr. Nikola, you're laughing, I'm just comparing your rules that you voted here with a loud vote. They said, "They are necessary for us to fall into this EU." What criteria do you use now to determine the sex? The birth certificates, physically what does it look like, or what does it feel like? If you're using the criteria of how anyone feels, someone can be a man one year and be a woman next year. I'm warning you, you'll be attacked by these GPTTJ guys, what kind of abbreviations this is. They'll kick your ass, Karadzic's company. They're gonna kick your ass. With what right do you determine a man's sex? A man born a man, and he feels like a woman, where do you put him? The first three, the second three, the third three or the fourth three? You'll have to deal with it immediately because you'll fall in the Constitutional Court. There are also in the Constitutional Court of those who... . How about funny to you? So here's a dilemma you can't solve. What criteria are you applying for gender today? God forbid my Neven hears me, she'll probably resign and no longer be a trustee of gender equality. So this provision is imperfect. Imagine, with what right do you feel like a woman you're forcing her to be a man because of the law? That's funny. Well, that's the law. It's not my discussion that's funny, it's your law. What can you put into your law? Look, you made a situation because you don't know what absolute and what relative rights are, I can say that. You put him in a situation where he first became an MP, was born, and only then was the National Assembly formed. For he is an apostle, according to you, a holy cow. His will is everything. Pay him Cane, pay him Miskovic, Tucko, Mucko, Shaper, uh, he can do anything. And you object to others that you do not have internal cohesion as a party, so you cannot keep your MPs or your councilmen, so they flee. Where's your cohesion? So you pay these Members of yours to faithfully press key number four. That's how it turns out. Because how is it possible that somewhere there is an extraordinary fidelity and all ideologically defined members of the DS? And you're capable of presenting everything as standard. When defending a bill here, instead of using legal arguments, it uses the argument of free-minded professors of the Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade. And they avoid any meeting and public debate where some government regulations would be discussed. Why? Because they know I have all their works and I can show them when they're consistent, when they're inconsistencies and why they change their minds, like teachers, for six months. And they change their minds depending on this. But you're media able to present to everyone that it's authority, that what he said -- that's how it's supposed to be. Here's your starting point. Make the difference between absolute human rights and relative human rights. Election law, both passively and actively, is relatively. It is subject to restrictions and conditions that can be prescribed by the Constitution and subject to the right of the National Assembly to regulate the way in which that right is exercised by law. There's no absolute freedom, but there's a possibility. Within the limits of that mandate was used by that group of people who wrote the law on local elections, and then because of some political interest to increase the number of pro-European parties, you made the party, stole the mandates, gave them room. Now the congregations, units of local self-government, what are public sources, which comes from the budget, which belongs to the SRS by the number of mandates won, are divided by the criteria of the number of members of the parliamentary groups and you give them money. Now you're having a good fight here, you're convincing yourself on the subject of shortness and honesty. Here's an insecure problem for you, which throws away the whole concept that you imagined about the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament and the Law on Local Elections. The whole concept throws you in the water. Why? Because there's a fundamental error. You have bypassed the question of what is the electoral right, and from the point of view of the first half, that you can run, and from the other half's point of view, you have the right to choose. To satisfy these interests, then anything and anything can be put here. It's not the administrative court's problem, it's not the issue that the municipal electoral commission is being thrown out, it's the commission of local self-government, nothing is the problem. It's already some normal alignment with the fact that some things have changed in the meantime. It's okay. But these main amendments, the main changes, Article 43, Article 47 and Article 49, that's where you totally missed the topic. Of course, there is also a call - if we are going towards the EU, we must accept their standards. Here, tell me, where is this standard? Tell me, in which EU country is this standard? There's nowhere to go. Then you say -- we have to change this, it's a condition to get a paraphras. Get the paper and I'll paraphrase everything for you, just don't change this. We meet here from time to time to consider some things and we all know in this room that this is bad. You know, one dimension of choice is to hear the election will. Another dimension to get representatives. The third dimension – to form a stable power. There are no stable authorities without stable parties in power and stable parties in the opposition. Now, that part you forgot. If you think you can profit from kidnapping a opposition party, you're wrong. It comes back as a big boomerang, and it's only a matter of days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58354	Thank you. I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written word application with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of LDP, SPS-JS, DSS, MP Group Advanced Serbia, SRS and ZES. The first to be reported to is the MP, Mr. Djordje Milicevic. Here you go, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58355	Thank you. Mr. Novakovic, the respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are ahead of us to amend and supplement the Law on Local Elections. When it comes to the draft law we are talking about today and we are having a debate today, I would like to say that this proposal, as could be heard during today's debate, contains exactly the same solutions as the Law on selecting MPs. Just as during the debate on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs, I would like to say that, first of all, given the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and, in the light of the EU's position, we support this legislative proposal, but we see it. In fact, this is a transitional solution at the moment, but what is necessary is to get into the fundamental reform of electoral legislation in Serbia immediately behind the next local and parliamentary elections. And this proposal, as well as the amendments and additions to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, answers three questions, or answers some three requirements, and when it comes to the position and opinion of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, and when it comes to the EU's position, and when it comes to the position of the professional public. But it seems to us that with such a proposal, as we could hear from Mr. Secretary, this is one of the solutions. Maybe not the best, and it's not the best, but at this point, it's one of the solutions. Unfortunately, it does not solve the problem as a whole, and so once again, I want to make it absolutely clear and completely accurate to say that the inevitable after the next elections is to enter into the fundamental reform of electoral legislation in Serbia. So there are many open questions. The first question or problem is the problem of motivation. The problem of motivation and candidates, but the problem and the question of voter motivation. It is true that citizens will know on the basis of the electoral lists who has the chance and who may eventually be a committee after the first upcoming local elections. But they will also know who won't have a great chance of being inside the local parliament. The question arises how to motivate the last candidate on the list to run the campaign and how to motivate fellow citizens, his election unit neighbours to vote for him when his chances of entering the local parliament are extremely small. The second question for us is the issue of territorial representation. Therefore, ordinary citizens, central or republican authorities act too far away sometimes from their daily lives and they are generally unable to deal with their direct problems, such as local roads, local transport issues, water supply, electricity supply, therefore, communal infrastructure issues. The committee candidate for which citizens are assigned in the local elections has an exceptional importance and exceptional importance in solving these problems which are of paramount importance to the citizens of a single constituency. Will each election unit have its representative in the local parliament after the first next local elections? It may occur that in one constituency each political option has its own candidate without any candidates being within the local parliament. So, the citizens of that constituency won't be in it, and we wouldn't have a representative at that point. In light of the legislative proposal, it is said that adoption will allow citizens to decide which candidate to represent them, a simple issue. The list, for example, has 51 candidates and citizens in one constituency believe that exactly the 51st candidate on the list would be their choice, understand their problems, they know him, think he could solve their problems most successfully after the first next local elections and want to vote for him. But he's 51st because the political option that he belongs to is how she ranks him. Now the question arises – how do the citizens decide who will represent them? The mandate is therefore assigned in order, but is not assigned by percentage and by the number of votes won. The next question that is also important to us is the question of resignation. It is specified that resignation should be a personal act, a personal will and we have absolutely nothing against it, we just think that a legal solution should be found to prevent a free mandate, a mandate belonging to a committee after the local elections from being subject to political trade. It is not good and I agree there with Serbian Radical Party counterparts, it is not good that parties that do not participate in the elections have their representatives in the local parliament. So political trade brings instability into the political system. A party that has not participated in the elections cannot, out of the free will of the council, gain a seat as a party in the Assembly, and that is best, as I said, to be governed by one legal normative framework, because everything else would be in some way also the deception of citizens and the fraud of citizens who have come out and who will go to the first next local elections. We believe that political stability is important because it is a prerequisite, political stability is a prerequisite for the successful implementation of the declared objectives and principles around which any local self-government and any majority within a local self-government are gathered. When it comes to the issue of coalitions and that we understand, when it comes to political trade, I am not just saying this because of the Serbian Radical Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia had one very bitter experience in 2002 and we do not want that experience to be repeated over the next period in any political option. We believe that political stability is important, but when it comes to the issue of coalitions, it is settled for us in one way, I would say, an acceptable way, i.e. the exact same way, as in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. The order on the list is respected, but coalition agreements affect how mandates will be awarded in order, of course, given which political options participate in the coalition and given the fact that coalition agreements must be known immediately before the local elections. What I'm also trying to say is that we support and feel that the presence of a less represented sex should be ensured. We support that property. At the very end, according to different practices in the past time period, in the context of stalling, prolonging, it is also acceptable for newspapers to introduce an obligation to end local self-government elections within 60 days of the day of the call, not 90, as far as it has been so far. With all the shortcomings, this proposal in some way improves the electoral system, not entirely, but many open issues. This is a transitional solution and a fundamental reform of electoral legislation is needed in Serbia. In part, elements of indirectity are removed, but the essence of the proportional electoral system is that it has elements of indirectity, is voted for by the political party. I think that in the future, when it comes to the fundamental change of electoral legislation and the change of electoral legislation in Serbia, I think we should think about other solutions that are far better than this, let's say, a mixed electoral system, because it affirms both the advantages of the proportional and the majority system or the personal proportional system that also has its advantages, but also the shortcomings, etc. When it comes to local elections, local elections are eventually called. It is quite clear, quite precisely, that absolutely no one can call local elections when it comes to it, but the SPS's view is that through the change of electoral legislation, the electoral system we create conditions that are precisely because of the exceptional importance and importance that should be attached to local elections, because we are all talking about decentralisation, so that we should also look at the importance and importance of local elections, through the change of electoral legislation, the electoral system needs to create conditions for us to separate parliamentarys from local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58356	Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58357	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a strange little atmosphere that we are discussing today on this law on local elections, i.e. the additions of this law, because on the one hand we have expectations of the public for the root change of the electoral system, both at the parliamentary level, or at the Serbian state level, and on the other hand, we have, on the other hand, we can say freely, one makeup that should only be adopted by this parliament a month or two ago, regarding parliamentary elections, we do so with local elections. The expectations of the public for a radical change in the electoral system have been contributed by Minister Markovic himself, who has kept talking for the past three years about the need to change the electoral system and how the electoral system in which the local and parliamentary elections are held does not meet European norms, and on the other hand, I can say freely, we also have EU initiatives to change our electoral system. However, as we change our electoral system at both republican and local level, we at least do not lead Serbia to the EU in this electoral system. Unfortunately, we are taking Serbia to the flea market. What is the essence of amending this law on local elections is that political parties, the leadership of political parties at local level, no longer determine who will be the committee after the elections, but rather do so before the elections. The biggest problem of the political system in Serbia is the lack of citizens in politics. We are doing this by this electoral law even more, i.e. we are moving the citizens away from the electoral law, from the electoral process, or we are driving the citizens out of politics, because only one narrow circle of people from the parties will be interested in local elections, and those who will be sure to enter the local parliament. It's no longer just a question of people's motivations as if they're running in the election, it's a question of motivation, someone said from the predecessors, citizens. Why would one of the citizens go out to vote if they knew who would be a councilman? That's why LDP is talking about changing the electoral law, changing the political system, we're talking about the possibility of getting as many citizens into the political system as possible, because that's the point. Today, in the afternoon debate, Minister Markovic, explaining this bill, accused the Serbian Parliament of being responsible for why we have these amendments to the election law today, as if he were an expert, an extra-party figure, as if he were not a member of the ruling coalition that directly decided what kind of electoral system we would have in the next parliamentary and local elections. This is not allowed for LDP, if some political moves are already being made, then some political decisions must be made behind it, whether you are a minister, whether you are a member of the ruling coalition or a member of some of the opposition parties and you are supporting some laws. The Liberal Democratic Party has always done so, but we are asking both members of the ruling coalition and ministers in the extreme case. What is also a characteristic of this electoral law is the introduction of so-called. election lists. In the Republic of Serbia, we have already had elections organised by the government with this so-called closed lists. These are elections for the National Council of National Minorities. What do we have after that election? We have a situation that a national council has not been formed, according to the ministry, because there is no respected order on the list. How can we, as citizens of Serbia, trust in some ministry, in some government that they will respect that closed list when we talk about local elections, that tomorrow some party power in some local self-government will not falsify the resignations of their committees and that the ministry and the competent institutions will nominate for peace in the ruling coalition? This is what happens when we talk about the election for the National Council of Bosniaks, and exactly Minister Markovic is trying to solve the problem he inherited from Minister Ciplic, but the government is responsible for this because he does not respect the laws. It's also nonsense we heard today, and we hear it in public, that citizens don't know who they voted for under the old law and local elections and republican elections. That's nonsense. In 2008, citizens voted for some political ideas that represented political parties and groups of citizens in these elections. What is more important for LDP is what happens after the elections, whether those political groups that enter local parliaments represent the policy they represented before the elections, and then we come to us, for example, in Sanjak, that anyone with before the elections can argue, and after sources of advances with Democrats, Democrats with radicals, radicals with SDPs, etc. Is that politics? No, it's not politics. Because of the political party's behaviour, we have a problem that people no longer trust the political system and people don't trust political parties. Today, 22 years after the introduction of a multi-party system in Serbia, Serbian citizens no longer trust political parties. Today, it seems to me, citizens are more eager for this one firm hand, one party, social property than they were in the 1990s. This is the responsibility of political parties that do not represent those ideas that go to the polls. The Liberal Democratic Party will not vote for this law because it does not change anything, it will only introduce us into a flea market where the presidents of the municipality will have to pay in one way or another for the support of individual committees, that is, to solve the private problems of the ruling coalition's committee to succeed in the local self-government. This is a problem we will face after the next local elections, but I hope that we will soon have extraordinary local elections to enter a reformed system with the new electoral law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58358	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Dr. Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58359	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would be happier if I could welcome Mr. Minister, but unfortunately I can't, I listened very carefully to Mr. Minister's presentation that presented this law, as my colleague noticed the presentation lasted three minutes and seven, eight seconds, which is only proof of how much enthusiasm the minister defends the law. Something Mr. Minister said, and I completely agree with that, he said among other things that this law is a step forward in electoral legislation. That's exactly right, and I'll explain why. Of course, electoral legislation is one of the most important cornerstones of the democratic functioning of the state. Personally, I think the state of democracy in our country is on the verge of a break-in and with this we're really taking a step forward. I've never had a problem with laws that I don't support because they're the expression of someone else's political belief. By the nature of things I am against such laws, but I respect that there can also be different political views of some of the problems stemming from the political determination of the political party that represents it. But I've always had a problem and I'll always have a problem with laws that insult intelligence. I apologize to the chairman, don't mind me, but this is one stupid law and I'll try to explain why he's stupid. There are three key changes in that law, and I won't talk about any other technical changes. First, there's this spelled order on the list, and that's like I don't know what it's protecting. What's being protected? The right of citizens to choose? No, the citizens got a list of individual political parties, it's what it is, no one asked them if they liked such a list or didn't like it, would they like the 48th to be the third or the second to be 52nd, etc. So, if it is about the election will of citizens, it can be achieved in another way. I would not open that discussion now, there are all kinds of other forms and other ways to ensure that citizens have greater influence on which representatives of political parties will become MPs or, in this case, the committees. Secondly, a norm is introduced that with a little effort after a few laps can be skipped. The first "n" councilmen will become councilors, and then the next day the "n" of them will be less one to resign, and then the next "n" less one to become councillors, and after four or five rounds of the party in the final line, they will be able to choose whoever they want again. Secondly, what is more important is that I cannot understand any serious party, and in this case I cannot understand the large parties in the ruling coalition, which, by the logic of things, should have interests in having candidates on the lists who will work hard to promote in the election campaign the party programme and thus help the list they are on, win as many votes as possible. It's one completely natural thing. However, you now have a set list. If a party, for example, knows that a municipality is worth 10 committees, then you will have a situation, that the first seven committees or eight committees are not interested in the campaign at all, because they will certainly be committees, and whoever is below 12 is also not interested in the campaign because they know they will not be committees. I don't know how the political parties think they're running a campaign in the local elections? Who's gonna do it? I assure you, no one. This reminds me of that famous story about the village shepherd who did what he did in spite of the village. Next, one thing everyone says, it's a sensitive question, and that's a question of women on the list. Here, the ruling majority of the pronouns joke on one small coalition partner, that each third should be a representative of the less-represented sex. To be clear, as far as women are concerned, I personally think they're more talented at politics than men. This shows a number of examples from European political practices. So that I may not make names now, starting with an iron ice, and beyond. However, I don't think women's equality in politics is achieved by introducing some formal norms, where a woman will become an MP, or a councilman, just because she's a woman, but I guess it should be because she has certain qualities of human and other quality for the job. But it's on the side. There's one difference between parliamentary elections, you know, and that's the nature of local elections. There are a large number of settlements in almost every municipality, i.e. villages. There are some municipalities with over 200 villages, such as Leskovacka. It is natural that each party wishes to have representatives from these particular, at least the largest settlements in the municipality. I assure you that, by the logic of things, knowing the nature and patriarchy of our environments that I do not, however, support, but it does exist. You'll have a situation that you'll have, mostly, men from rural areas on the lists, and then, by the logic of things, women will be exclusively from city municipalities. Of course, that's not good again. I doubt any party in some rural community will run for wife. I doubt it. No, because I think bad about women, but that's the way it is. Therefore, and those provisions formally transposed from, I'm sorry, too, the stupid Law on the selection of MPs we recently adopted. It will make it much more difficult for the quality and creation of a future municipal assembly, i.e. the quality of a list of political parties. Thirdly, I am sorry that he is not a minister, he said that they have only formally transposed the provisions of the applicable Law on the selection of MPs, and now I will assure you that they are not. It's a matter of signature. I am not going to get back into the story we had when we passed the Law on the registration of political parties, or political parties, when a large number of signatures were prescribed – 10,000 signatures that the party could be registered. Personally, I wouldn't mind having that number bigger. When DSS and other parties advocate that it is enough to register a political party and then naturally the political party participates in all the types of elections that exist in the country. Why else do political parties exist, rather than participate in the elections? Imagine now, you have registered football clubs, and since you registered them, they have to specifically acquire some qualifications to participate in some competition. I guess just by registering, it's normal for them to play football. Therefore, political parties too, if they registered, were not registered to look at stars, but to participate in the election of all kinds. The introduction of rules that political parties must collect some signatures to go to elections is in itself ridiculous. If they were citizens, that's fine. They're not registered political parties, and it's okay to collect signatures. But political parties, personally, I don't think they should be collecting signatures at all for any election, from presidential to local. Now take it aside. Here's the difference. At the republican level, in order to participate in the elections it has, I remind six and a half million voters, 10,000 signatures must be collected. That's, uh, roughly one-sixth of one percent. In a municipality that has, for example, 30,000 inhabitants and, for example, selects 40 council members, you must raise 1,200 votes. Those 1,200 votes, count how much that is compared to 30,000 total voters. That's 4%. So not one-sixth of one percent, but four percent. Not to say that in a municipality that has 21 thousand voters on this proposal and, for example, there are 40 councillors, it needs every political list of 1,200, so that everyone in the municipality pleads, you can't fill out more than 7-8 lists. That's ridiculous. Can you count? I'll tell you, you can't count. You don't know the basics. You're only used to prescribing, but just to copy, you don't even know what you're copying. It's a completely pointless provision. A provision that, when we mistake mathematics as a non-essential, essentially opposes the basic democratic principle, which is that citizens should have the right to be elected and have the right to choose. Not that their right is limited to the many clauses that they are virtually devising. Now I guess you can see why I said we're taking a decisive step forward, directly into the ambis. We're making it because someone thought someone in Europe thought it was supposed to be done like this. I assure you, first of all, no one thinks it, and secondly, they don't care at all. We have to make sure we're a young democracy. A multiparty system, whatever you call it, has been around for 20 years. Now that's also a question of whether there's so much. After 55 years of the absence of democracy in this country, and of course, like any young plant, it's worth caring for. No, it's soulless to step on it from day to day. This is one of those examples we're doing. So, I repeat, of course I don't have to assure you that the DSS won't vote for this law, but it hasn't even submitted amendments, because we don't see what needs to be fixed, only to submit one seven, eight amendments that would vote, and that article is deleted, and that's pointless. So, it remains on your conscience what you bring. What you're going to bring amongst other things, it's a weak comfort to me, it's going to hurt a lot and it's going to hurt every serious political party that has some serious problem and some serious ideas about what to do, and at least some time if I ask you at least if some triviality, like how many signatures are needed, put your finger on the forehead, I guess you'll be up to something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58360	The word is Miss Maria Bulgarcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58361	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the government, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues in the debate today, on several occasions, said that we from the LDP would not vote for this law, and for this law you will not have our support. In fact, we said a lot in the debate on the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and today we repeat the same thing when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections. Today, most MPs in this room are thinking the same thing we think about LDP, which is that these amendments and additions of the law are not good and that they will have to change very quickly. We have not submitted amendments to this law because we believe that this law is, by all accounts, bad and that it cannot be corrected by a few amendments to the entire law. We just got confirmation from our SPS colleagues that after the next election cycle, there will be a change in the entire electoral law. With that, we didn't even submit amendments to a law like this. What is the problem with this existing law and what will further elaborate local elections are so-called. closed lists. There's a serious concern about the candidates' motivation for local committees, and I'm afraid every party at the bar will have a problem. What is this going to turn into? It'll turn into a closed list in the flea market. There's nothing else we can expect from seeing these closed lists. The lists will be made of the most senior management of the local party, any party and, by all accounts, many villages and many settlements will be left without a councilman under this law. More than 40% of the population lives in the country, which means that many citizens will be left without their committees and will not have their representatives in local parliaments. As for Article 5 of this law, which says that on the electoral list among each three candidates in a row, there must be at least one candidate of the half that is less represented. We are a party that has always advocated gender equality. Gender equality and need of gender equality should be generally accepted, and certainly no quotas, percentages as in this law as they say. I believe that these quotas, these percentages in this law, are dishonest and this shows the reason for this law which says it will comply with European principles and values. Since it's mostly women who are less represented on each list, I can rightly say that I don't want to feel like a percentage or a quota. I want to feel essentially equal to the opposite sex. I'd like to ask the Minister, is this legal regulation going to remove the anomalies we've had so far under the current election law, about local elections? We're unfortunately LDP, we don't think that's going to do the same to these amendments and the additions to this law. As for the blank resignations, we're the party that first promoted the blank resignations and that was against every kind of blank resignation. The only one we've never had is a blank resignation here in the republican parliament, and also at the bar, not one of our local councilmen has ever had a blank resignation. But what did it all turn into? We have a recent example, last week when the New Vienna councilman, the G17 plus party bought it for 100,000 dinars. It shows that it's all pretending, like my colleagues said, as I say in the big flea market. There are many such cases, unfortunately, in all of Serbia, committees suffer some kind of pressure and blackmail, and I think it is not good and will not regulate it with a new law. I agree with this law, which states that a councilman must be sovereign in his work, but will this law allow him to do so? I mean, unfortunately, this law won't allow it. There is still a possibility of great pressure on local councilmen to resign. How will you from the ministry or the minister influence the situation that mass people are going to resign, so that some other people who are like party headquarters come back and take care of it? Also, as far as the signing order in this law is concerned, we have a situation in the interior of Serbia, let's say there is only one signer, and there are many parties. We come to the situation that the parties currently ruling in the local parliament are the first to assume that the court's verifyer and the first to verify the signatures and hand over the lists, and the lists whose members of the opposition have yet to wait for order when the positioning parties settle, then they can get that judicial authority because that is simply the situation on the ground. As far as I'm concerned, Article 9. On 10th and 11th, and as far as the Administrative Court is concerned, I must point out that the administrative courts are overcrowded with cases and that we have an example of a administrative court in Serbia that is just solving cases from 2009, and when the 2011 cases will come into order.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58362	Thank you. This time is scheduled for the discussion of the LDP parliamentary group to be exhausted. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wish the minister had stayed in the O.R. because the easiest thing to say is that someone doesn't tell the truth, that someone doesn't know what he's talking about, is that it's the easiest thing to get some, and they forget that they're in the National Assembly, in front of the MPs, not in the political debate or in the cabinet, where ministers can talk to each other like that. Okay, well, I don't blame them. I don't blame him for being here with us anymore. These amendments and additions to the local elections law were meant to address certain irregularities and abuses that gave the ministry the right to interpret the law whenever it pleases it. In this it is a problem, and this problem has arisen in the disputed municipality of Golubac, because under Article 46 of the Law - the mandate of the committee ceases by resigning, by making a decision on the disbanding of the local self-government unit if the committee is legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than six months. If a judicial ruling deprives him of his business ability. Taking over jobs, or functions that are in conformity with the law incompatible with the function of committees. If he stops his residence on the territory of the local self-government unit by losing his citizenship, even though the death of a councilman occurs. The next position says the committee may resign orally at a session of the local self-government unit assembly, and submits between the two sessions in the form of a certified written statement. After submitting the oral resignation of the board, the assembly without delay at the same session determines that his term of office has ceased. The resignations of the committee between the two sessions are required by the assembly to decide and not determine, and the finding is in fact a finding, and the decision-making process is the vote at the first next session. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, paragraphs 2 to 8 of Article 46(1). The Law on Local Elections shall cease independently of the will of the committees as an individual and of the will of the assembly, because the conditions under which the committee is suspended are clearly defined. So it's out of the congregation's will. These are the two opinions of the ministry. One of the 29 July 2010, signed by Minister Milan Markovic, and the second since 2 August 2010, where Mr Markovic, in his opinion, claims that the committeeman who changed his place of residence could participate in the assembly's work. That's the problem. So he says there's a vote to end the term of office. The law he defended here says -- it determines the end of the term of office, and when resignation is submitted between the two sessions, it is decided on the termination of the term of office. Will the congregation decide whether someone has been sentenced to prison for more than six months, or if he has lost his business ability, or if the death of a councilman has occurred? That's what you've reduced the law to, so you can interpret how you like it. On the very Law on Local Self-Government, all decisions made by local self-government are published in "The Official Messenger of the Units of Local Self-Government". This is the only law that provides for a vote, and these are the only decisions made by the local self-government unit and published in the "Official Messenger" are valid. Sir, with his act, the minister stamped the municipality by referring to Article 13. The law on the sealing of state and other bodies, which is said to have become unsuitable for weariness, is not the case – it is not the case, the changes, the arrangements of state and other bodies – it is not the case, the change in the name of the seats, etc., that is, the termination of public authority – it is not because the unit of local self-government continues to exercise its public powers, is put out of use and must be destroyed. You called on this member when you forced Zoran Pajkic and Mr. Purunović into power, so I am pleased to accept Mr. Minister's offer to see which one of us will resign, with it not being a committee of politicians but rather an independent administrative lawyer, so that we can see what it means, what it means to determine, what it means by the will of the assembly ends when the mandate ends, and when the mandate ceases by law enforcement without the will of the assembly. If you're already declaring yourself legalists, then you need to respect the Constitution first. Here's how much trouble we have for two, three colleagues who are mayors, presidents of municipalities. He says, we were elected before the agency law was passed, yes, but the constitution was passed before they were elected. You interpret what your will is, so after the Constitutional Court, your decisions will be annulled. The entire Law on Local Elections, the most important parts of it, Article 43, Article 48, that the proposer Milan Markovic, the minister, was advertised unconstitutional. You need to say more about the minister's competence. If he wants to be a face, a minister who adheres to the law and the Constitution, then do his job right. If he's going to be a minister, whose laws are going to fall in the Constitutional Court, and if he's yelling, it's not my fault, don't even do this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58364	Thank you. The stenogram is here. The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58365	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Chairman, usually fellow MPs say, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, so whoever he is. Here, I don't have that feeling. Nor would he be particularly thrilled to be here, nor would I be sorry he's not here. He offered such a bad bill to his or her own or someone else's will or the only possibility because of such a coalition doesn't matter to us. It's really not one step forward, it's a few steps back. A few colleagues said this was a transitional solution. A transitional solution is a bridge. The bridge is being crossed and the law should be some sort of solution that needs to be regulated by one area. Indeed, those who say it is difficult to pass a law that would suit everyone of course, the political system, and especially the electoral system in one country where democracy and multilaterals are relatively young and underdeveloped, it is really difficult to pass a law that would suit all. There seems to have been no will or attempt to make such a law. This law will have far-reaching consequences. It is far more negatively maintained on Serbian citizens than was the Law on the Selection of MPs. Right here, when it comes down to a municipality where elections will be held, between eight and ten and fifteen thousand voters, where they know each other, are determined to win. It is well known that they are good, no matter which political parties they come from. When they are on the list of proposed political parties, not to bid in which place, there is absolutely an interest in holding elections, or going out to those elections. There is certainly an active and passive voting law in the election process. Here, it seems to me, an active electoral right to a large extent, and you will see it after the first elections held, because voters will not decide anything at all, even though those who care to pass this law, say that for the first time we have approached the voters, for the first time they decide and it will last. Their decision will have some consequences. You'll be able to see it in practice. That's absolutely incorrect. See what Article 3 is. The law on local elections says, point 2. – no one has the right to prevent or force citizens to vote on any basis. That's part of one item 2. You will see in the next election, after these first ones that will be held under the provisions of this law, the proponent will have to think about how and how to interfere, and even introduce some sanctions for those who do not go to the polls. There's a large number of people here, and we care to confirm what we're doing, whether the position or the opposition is irrelevant, to confirm in the elections, that you'll see that we won't have that situation at all. There's been a few things that we've been trying to solve here. There's something important and there's something that's technical. It is very important that the resignation of the committee is confirmed and that the overa must not be and cannot be older than three days, so that it be handed over to the president of the assembly, so that the president of the assembly puts it in the first session after the resignation, if the resignation is not an act given at the sitting itself. That he puts and sees the legislator suggest that it be the first item of the agenda. The first point or any point is not important at all, and we now have such situations that local self-governments do not solve us, not at the second, not at the next session, but at the moment when there is division, when the creation of factions in certain political parties or there are bad relations between coalition partners, and then it comes to the situation that the mandate of the boardman, who submitted three sessions before, although the sessions are held in principle every three months in local self-government, is only then put on the agenda, because they are left without the parliamentary majority, and then they need to impose in some way, as it was done in this Parliament, to provide them with a councilman who can provide them, to support them. This law, i.e. amendments and additions to this law, neither corresponds to Serbian citizens, whose active right to choose threatened, nor corresponds to political parties. Basically, practice will show that it suits the tycoons most, and political parties by no means. Probably even serious political entities aren't responding. I don't know why there is a need for certain members or politicians who belong to certain political parties to wash their hands of the party, to say that now political parties have taken too many rights for themselves, that citizens do not decide. There's no need. We affirm our policy, our policy of the SRS openly and present it to the citizens of Serbia, let them assess only on this basis. You have now brought into a situation that, again and perhaps, the largest number of people in one political party determines on the basis of an assessment of how much the political party could win parliamentary mandates in a particular municipality and that only part of it offers quality, and the rest do not have to be people who could safely influence and solve some of the problems of the local self-government. It was also said here whether it was good for local elections to take place together or separately in relation to parliamentary elections. In any case, if this were properly arranged, it might have some essential meaning and perhaps sometimes in case parliamentary and local elections take place together, then local problems remain in the shadow of what is being said, what is important for the republican level, but in any case this period that remained until the regular local elections would certainly not fix the situation, or what should be the solution to the local elections would certainly not be so. We know that in one municipality, it is specifically the municipality of Kosjeric, where a political party was in power maybe about a year, not one of the ministers, at the time of the government's political party's participation, did not come to help the citizens of Koseric, but when extraordinary local elections were called, then the assistant ministers and state secretaries came, of course, and ministers. It seems to me that the drivers of these ministers also came to convince the citizens of Koseric that it would be nice and good to vote for the political party. What could these ministers have told them about the specific problems of Koseric municipality or any other municipality? Maybe they were saying what they thought they were doing on a republican level, and of course they wouldn't do it either, and they couldn't do it either. Therefore, if you think in such a way that you can separate and in such a way that you do separately locally from parliamentary elections, there is no effect at all, but you might think about how and how to do it in some future period and be properly deployed and that period of maintenance of these elections. Indeed, when it came to the Law on Political Parties, then the minister said that political parties reregistered, or registered under the new law, would not need to collect signatures during any elections. Whether it's presidential elections, parliamentary or local, it's just the same, but there won't be any need to collect those signatures again, or support the political parties' lists. As far as the SRS is concerned, it is not disputed, but not to be fooled, not to tell the truth, not to deceive the citizens of Serbia, we have to say that there will continue to be signatures, but that this is not the goal, but that we will not need it, and later when we have to go to the electoral procedure, and Professor Shami spoke in one mathematical way, if it can be called, about these problems and showed that a significantly smaller number of political parties, or list at all, can also be from a group of citizens, can collect a sufficient number of signatures that are foreseen under this law. Well, that's probably what I should have done. If the minister decided to collect signatures, the signings of support for the lists, the part should probably have been innovated as well. I don't even know who asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Ministry of Local Self-Government to make these changes to the law. Here, it is said, in an effort to bring the legal and political system into line with European principles and values, these amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections confirm the principle that citizens are holders of sovereignty, ensuring the constitutional right of citizens to decide in the elections on which candidate they will represent and remove elements of the indirectity of the elections. It says here that citizens will vote for the list. Therefore, there may be only one list bearer on the list and they will not know exactly what the candidates are and this is not true. With my colleagues from the SRS and with the largest number of Serbian citizens, we say that Serbia was in Europe in the 13th century, and now this government is trying to bring Serbia back to the 13th century, which is completely wrong and contrary to the wishes and needs of Serbian citizens. What is said in Article 34. Local election law? Item 2 says -- the voter can only vote for one of the ballots on the ballot. For one of the election lists. Then the question is, who does the mandate belong to? Is there any blank leftovers? Isn't there any blank resignations? As far as we have had an emergency election since the start of this term, it is nothing more than how many will be held after the first elections under this law that is now being proposed. I don't think any local self-government will welcome the end of the term of office on a regular basis, i.e. it will last four years with a list, i.e. with committees who started the mandate. There will be more frequent elections in local self-government than organising some cultural and entertainment events. There, this law will be passed, i.e. the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law. I think it's completely wrong. It is better that we remain on the basis of the law that was so far, that elections are being conducted under the law, since this government and this ministry were unable to offer a better solution to the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58366	Here you go, Mr. Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58367	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, needs to be regulated at both local and republican level, in order to ensure further functioning of the state in a European way. Under current electoral law, and we are all talking about decentralisation, it is possible, I am talking about the Republic's parliament, that all 250 MPs be, for example, theoretically from a Belgrade soloist. What would be a rational proposal when it comes to decentralisation, and it must be implemented by reforming the electoral system, is that Serbia is divided into electoral units, so that any regional party or that group of citizens or parties, which needs to protect their interests within a part of Serbia, could have their representatives in parliament. We now do not have representatives of 30 municipalities and cities from Serbia in the Serbian Parliament, although the number of municipalities in Serbia is much smaller than the number of MPs. Who are the regional leaders, who are the local leaders? These are mostly people who have come to a certain capital in recent years in a suspicious way. Founding groups of citizens, they protect their own not their own interests or local self-government. No one can tell me that they will be able to protect citizens' interests, because their behaviour and business in the previous period have shown no compassion for the situation in which each citizen of Serbia and for its existence. We need to find mechanisms but, first of all, I think it's about raising political awareness that, by abolishing the blank resignations, we wouldn't be in a position to buy committees, as in the previous period, bought MPs. The Serbian Renewal Movement has the absolute right to talk about this, because in 2004, when we applied for the opening of secret police files, secret services files, the government, the "democratic authority" in the image of the then prime minister, took the SPO ten mandates and thus made it clear that the influence of tycoon, parallel structures of government, parallel structures of security services still has an impact on MPs, and therefore also on electoral legislation. Serbia is a young democracy. In Serbia, the parliamentary mandate is considered a matter of trade, so we have a political party that has not even gone to the polls, but is hypocritically persistent to represent "flies" as some kind of reinforcement, as if it were a transitional deadline and Serbia's political scene is being fought by football clubs. These are some of the guidelines to further reform Serbia's electoral system to bring closer to some European standards and norms, and in some ways to overcome all the difficulties that have brought the times behind it. First of all, we need to raise the level of political consciousness. In highly developed countries, the transition of one MP, a council member from one political party to another political party, carries a moral condemnation, and that man, who changed his political uniform, no longer has to deal with politics because in the next election he can only experience a political embarrassment, because the number of votes he will win is certainly and guaranteed small. In our country, the media, political party officials, are just saying that precisely because of this electoral system, precisely because of this law on local elections that has been reviewed from the republical level, which is compatible with this law, they say they have received reinforcements, they have MPs, and now in the Serbian Parliament we have a political party that has not participated in the elections but therefore has MPs. Under what electoral law did they adopt mandates? In terms of proportion, majority, I'd like him to explain it to us. They boast that some members and my political parties have moved on to their ranks, probably from ideology since we have fought for European values for 20 years just against a policy that resembles a statement that Serbia will be a Persian carpet, a hole in the Persian EU carpet, a statement, an offer of a safe house for Ratko Mladic, just 20 years of fighting people who did everything so Serbia would not become an EU member. People from my political party and other political parties who have moved on to this political party have certainly not done so in ideology. The campaign is now being run in such a way that political public opinion researchers, respondents, are likely to get big money for the job they're doing, a political party that didn't even go to the polls as the strongest political party. I think the elections are the only criteria for the strength of the political party and voter support. I'll remind you that from 1990 to 2000, the SPO received a maximum of 2% of the votes in all the studies, and when we went to the polls, we were the strongest opposition party. All this says that systemic corruption must be removed from all spheres: political, social, and so on when it comes to false surveys. Another thing I find not good about this law, and since it is compatible with the legislation adopted at the republican level and since it is a recommendation from the Venice Commission, the SPO will support it, which is that those who are lowly positioned on the electoral lists will be demoted to fight, to represent their political programme, and thus we will exclude individual political actors from a life that should, through political activities, lead to improved existential quality in their environments. Furthermore, the best candidates will not enter local parliaments. It will be possible for individual candidates who have taken a large number of votes in their midst, to be lowly positioned on the electoral lists and to be the reason why they will be left out of political life, and those who have the most votes, probably because of the trust they receive from their fellow citizens to solve the problem of local environments, to represent these fellow citizens in local parliaments, but this law will make it impossible for them to do so. So once again I warn that we must raise morale, political awareness, that in all possible ways we must appeal to the media, to point out that if someone changes the political party, it does not mean that he has done the ultimate ethical work, that means that he and that other political party will one day leave, but also means that he is in politics only to solve his existential problems. We see that here in parliament we have many MPs, especially one political group, who would call themselves representatives of the desert islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58368	It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic, and then by MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58369	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, maybe I'll start this debate a little differently. The SRS believes there is no law that this assembly had in the procedure and discussed, while ensuring this high degree of political consent and consensus. The SRS believes that 92-93% of MPs in this House share Mr Shami's opinion and thinks this law is stupid. It's not a question of SRS which the law is stupid, the problem is that the law is not harmless. The problem is that the law will not regulate chaos, publicity, trade and lawlessness that has been spread since 2008, so we say, from republican to every local parliament, but in fact, it will legitimise and legalise this chaos through local parliaments and local self-government and from the next elections through the legal course to continue with such things. Why didn't I say 100%? Because 20 or 21 MPs in this House say the law is stupid, but the problem is that they sit in this House even though they did not participate in the elections. Taking them seriously, it's really pointless and hypocritical. Here many MPs have expressed their views, whether they are from opposition or position, all of which are absolutely acceptable, but when you look back at practice, you see that people sitting in power are completely different. If what you call the law should be called something by which standards are established, which raises the level of local capacity or the political process at local level, then I wonder what it isn't? The minister's gone. He thus shows how much he believes this makes sense, who wanted to hear and see, there is no man in the O.R. who accepted this and said that this is good. Why do we accept it – said the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission will not live in Serbia in local self-government, we will live. We need an orderly life at a local level. We don't need a Venice Commission. There's a question of how many they are and what they asked of you, but this is an effective example that you're the problem. You're the problem because you don't know what your society and your country needs, what kind of local self-government you want and how many different pressures you finally resist. This law and election processes at the local level after this adoption will be a more insecure matter than an SMS vote for "Stars of the Grand". The more serious thing in Serbia after the adoption of this law will be the release of a parking space SMS in zone 1, 2 and 3 of any city where it is organised. The minister says -- his four-year work won't get dirty. He mentions the pigeon there, etc. No one else will remember him but this. He should be aware of that. He will be remembered for this nonsense, the legalization of the brutal collapse of the electoral will of the citizens, the kidnapping, as he wrote here, sovereignty from the citizens. Can you imagine what you wrote here? It says here that this law will ensure a consistent application of the constitutional principle that no one can claim sovereignty from citizens or establish power beyond free will. This law should legalise chaos by the local self-government that exists today. You are talking about the preservation of sovereignty in a country where after 2008, when the SRS mandates were stolen, no composition of the local parliament remained the same, but not because elections took place, but because brutal thefts, transfers, defections and purchases took place. I appreciate what a fellow SPS colleague just said here, but that same colleague should look back at the Surdulics municipality from which I come, to see how his president of the Surdulica municipality behaves. To see how the majority he lost a year ago is provided from session to session, but not from his own money, but from the taxpayers' money to the Surdulci municipality. The minister here in this law insists on moral values, in that sense, to raise quality. What moral values can a man handle if the president of the municipality comes and says, "You're flying out of work tomorrow if you don't come to the assembly, I won't settle your bill and pay you a debt if you don't come to the assembly tomorrow and support me, because my parents have ignored me more and won't vote for me." You ask this man, "Okay, where are you going and what are you doing?" He says, "I'm sorry, I'm living off it, I've got a family to provide." Then he goes to that session of the assembly and gives the president support for the debt to the municipality of 50 million dinars. Are those moral values? Is that a "non-supervision of the citizens"? Is that respect for the free will of the citizens? In my municipality, the Socialists had three councilmen in 2008. Today they have, if necessary, between 16 and 18. Because of ideology? No, it's because of the money, because of the money that the president's making for the estate, and it's not his. It's municipal money. I ask the representatives of the majority – is this law the answer to such arrogant behavior? The community I come from has 35 councilmen. By law and by the statute today there are 33 councilmen. The will of the congregation's majority and local leadership is not to recognise two DS mandates and I'm exulting because of it, I'm politically liquefied, but, in principle, I can't say that's okay. Because I'm against stealing the sovereignty of citizens to express their political will. And they gave as much as the DS in that municipality as the SRS did. And it has to be respected. The government won't give them mandates. Go through the courts, and as you've been reformed by the judiciary, you know it well and feel every day on your skin, but you can't talk about it. The municipality works without two councilors. I say it again - I'm exaggerating. Because you were like an SRS accident, too. Mr Krasic used to say – that pebble in our shoes will be a stone around your neck. Don't even have a dilemma and doubt at all, that time is coming. Be mired in your successes and percentages, but this evil, political and electoral evil, ending the electoral will of the citizens you have sown in Serbia, slowly but certainly coming and knocking on your door. That's why this law and what you're talking about doesn't deserve any serious analysis. There were also words about numbers, what will be and how it will be. It's just, it's all pointless. There's no answer to any problems here. What's the role of the state? The minister says just before – the electoral will to be respected. It won't affect political parties. This is where the state and the law exist until the polls are closed. After that, it's all money. It's all money and naked interest. I suppose the state has a commitment to local self-government and to the closure of polling stations, and in a four-year term? Apparently, someone doesn't know what local self-government autonomy is or what decentralisation means. It's not cowboyry and anarchy. What is the function and role of the state? Is the state supposed to control something, ask – hello, President, what are you doing down there? What do you think, you're a friend of a high-ranking government official, you have a lot of money and you can do whatever you want – you can threaten, you can buy, you can steal, you can steal, you can do anything, you can do anything you want. Our interest is politically in Belgrade, Germany and not to be touched. I'm talking about any community. That's why there are laws, that irresponsible and arrogant get in the way. And you know very well that's how it is. The minister cannot boast of 600 procedures resolved and say that 10 have not been solved properly. These procedures were not to be taken. This was to safeguard the sovereignty and politically expressed will of the citizens, and we will, in a proportionate electoral system, manage the principles of the majority electoral system. Why didn't you bring that into the U.S., nonpartisan election principles? In America, 60% of local self-government is a non-partisan election. Why didn't you introduce open lists, since you're prone to European standards, so that citizens can text whoever they want and vote for it? And that's where it exists. But that's not what you're thinking, so you're also something that could bring good, quality, you've come up with. Some here said that Serbia longs for a firm hand. I totally agree with them. Very soon Serbia will get a chance to choose the firm hand of Vojislav Seselj, who knows, along with us, how to regulate local self-government, to know what the role of the state is in relation to local self-government and political parties who know that the quality of local capacities and local self-government can only be arranged when you fix an election process that provides or chooses the authorities of local self-government. By then, you'll be bringing this up in front of us, we'll be talking and Serbia will sink into the fungi from day to day.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58370	It was used 11 minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. After that, a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58371	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was born in the most beautiful city of Serbia in Krusevec, and I am chosen for both the councilor and the MP. Not only did they vote for me in Krusevec as a MP, I'm sure they voted for me and for Chačka, Trstenik, Vranjska Banja, Topoli, but when I was elected a councilman, then I'm sure they voted for me, first of all, the citizens of Kruševac, who know me and know me and who showed me trust, and it was a great honor for me. But when we discussed these laws today and we had various objections to this law, one of the first remarks was that this was a stupid law. I'm just going to remind myself of the definition that has changed throughout history, what's through political thought, but through scientific thought, was declared stupid. Since the vast majority of those on the planet who have failed to understand the legal act that has been passed, the revolutionary discovery, the scientific achievement, technological progress, there have been people who have not been able to cope with the civilization's progress and everything that has been foreign to them, unknown to them, it has been dangerous and stupid, so stupidly declared the discovery of Jordan Bruno, that it is not the country center of the world, but that there is a heliocentric system, not a geocentric system, and Georgino Bruno is burned at the stake. Often these great discoveries in science, including politics, consist of revealing the truth that was once buried in a series of dogmas, prejudice. Often it was necessary to find a way out of the deadlock leading to formal reasoning, and often this formal reasoning was devoid of any reality, because it was worth liberating the thought that was trapped with party thighs, dogmas, and that once seemed like that free thought was trapped between some iron jaws of dogma, and it was really hard to get into broad folk masses because it was always something advanced and well declared stupid, bad, because that great majority didn't understand it. Then we heard in the light of these legal proposals that more votes will be given to the "Stars of the Grand" than some candidates for the council and that "Stars of the Grand" will be easier to pass in their SMS votes than some candidates will. I'm sure when I see some candidates that absolutely "Stars of the Grand" will have a better chance than those candidates, especially when I hear them, then I remove every dilemma, I'm sure the stars of the Grand will have a better chance. This raises the question – will anyone be able to buy councilors, MPs, will any national representatives, who participate in the elections, be able to buy on the political market as bags of potatoes, cabbages, as pork butts in butchery? Whoever has that fear, I need you to keep an eye on who you put on the list. Don't let us have a situation where there are councilors in local assemblies today whose ideology is "great Serbia" far beyond the ideology of big money. Take care, I haven't heard of an example of an DS MP leaving the ruling majority because we're keeping an eye on who we're putting on the list. Since 2000, when the time of repression passed, the time of lawlessness, when we introduced some standards, we've kept an eye on who represents DS and in parliament and in local parliaments, and these phenomena are really minor. When you talk about a rock from your shoe that can become a rock around the neck of DS, you know, I know how DS can get that rock out of a shoe that someone wants to put on our head like a stone that will pull us into the depths very easily becomes that waterstone that grinds all those weak, bad, like this and like that, and I wouldn't play much with that waterstone. You know, he's a very nice little flour, and it's all nice to even it all up, even a weed and a weed, along with a grain. Don't worry about taking care of DS and DS. When we talk about women on DS lists or on political parties at all, I am particularly proud that we have Mira Avakumović from Arlja, who is the president of the municipality; so we have Vesna Martinović from Pančev, who is the mayor; so we have Natasa Cvetkovic, who is from Šid, the president of the municipality; Mirjana Bozidarevic from Stari Grad, the president of the municipality, Branka Savivić from Barajev, the president of the municipality; Anika Sirkova from the municipality and that of the municipality; Vesna Jakovljevic from Kursumljević from Kursumlija, the president of the municipality; Slavica Sotirović from Vranjska Banja, the president of the municipality. President SO Kruševac is Vesna Veskovic. The town of Kruševac is a town where women perform the most responsible functions. We have a police chief in Serbia who is a woman who has shown that women can do their job. It's about Mrs. Darling from Uzic. I do not see the fear and need to fear women or see the need to be afraid and because it will be known in advance the order of the council, as is the pre-known order of MPs. I'll give you a solution to your problems where motivation is a problem, in that last place put you, MPs. You're not going to be MPs and councilmen, are you? Say, here, we stand on the list and stand consciously in the last place, we believe that there are enough quality people in our municipality past us who will be committees, then put on the beginning of the list those who will eventually be candidates for directors of public enterprises or some cultural institutions, and since they will call competitions for these public enterprises on the channel, put other people who will be honored to be on that list, put on former mayors who have and how they have proven themselves. You see how the town of Kruševac has good mayors? The town of Svilajnac has mayors who will be honored and they will no longer be involved in politics, but it will be an honor for them to stand on the DS list and not in the first place but in the beginning and say – here we are, giving young people a chance, we are not motivated to get directly into the political arena, but we want to put our credibility behind the DS list. If you are guided by this way to resolve these issues of motivation, believe me, there will be no such question, because this is primarily about democratic standards. Here in the O.R., we often have people who are afraid that I'm going to the library and that I'm sitting in a library. You know, it's a lot better to sit in a library than, say, with the greasy brandy, because in the library, you can see a lot of smart things, and with the cassage you can only burn yourself. You've got that famous Serbian tattoo on your belly of brandy. What does the library say? For all those Eurosceptics, here's what the library says -- 53% of Serbian citizens would right now vote for Serbia's EU accession, among other things, because of the laws we are making. What else do these citizens say? These 85% believe it is good to pass such laws not for the sake of the EU, but accept the DS opinion, that it is good to pass such laws in Serbia to meet those conditions that will create from Serbia those standards here in Serbia. So it's much better to carry out reforms for Serbia itself, not because one of us is asking. That is the DS opinion and that is the opinion of 85% of the country's citizens. You can accept it, and you can deny it, you can say you like it, you don't like it. You can try to change the people if you can't change the policy already, but I don't think anyone did it. What else do the citizens say? Citizens say that if a referendum on Serbia's EU accession was organised tomorrow, only 24% of citizens would be against it. Also, it would not vote or know if it would vote, but a large majority would still vote convincingly for the EU. I repeat this figure to you by 85% of citizens who believe that reforms are important for creating a better Serbia, not for EU membership. So it's important to work on creating a better Serbia. It's just a matter of signature. Here comes the minister. Many speakers have started their presentation with a sentence – I am sorry that the minister is not there, and in fact they are sorry that they are not ministers, and not that the minister is not there. They say -- here, you know, in Serbia, some cities won't have their own MPs, and in the bar, it'll happen that some environments won't have, too, their own councilors. The town of Kruševac from which I come, which I am very proud, has 70 electoral units and based on these election units DS has appointed candidates, 70 candidates who will participate in the elections, which territorially cover those units. We used to succeed, based on election results, to introduce candidates to the local parliament and say – you won so many percent and that's fine. What do we do now? First, we know what the election results will look like in the previous period, so we're going to give back 70 committee members who will territorially cover every constituency. On the other hand, we are absolutely convinced that in each election unit we have at least 10 good candidates to be councillors and that these committees will not leave the program or the idea of DS. But there were stories from part of the opposition, that it's bad that we only have 168 municipalities. Here we return to an interesting thesis presented by Ms Milanka Karic in 2008. She said Serbia should have 2,000 municipalities. Who's gonna pay for that? She didn't explain. How many council members will be there, too, she hasn't explained. I think Serbia has as many municipalities as it has and these municipalities have as many councilmen as they have. These committees will have their own representatives in the local community. It is not the fault of the DS, once again underlining, it is now closer to the ideology of big money than the ideology of "Greater Serbia", which is closer to some of the other ideologies than the ideologies of the parties that brought them into parliament. That's where you have to make sure that people like that run for office. We don't have that kind of problem for now. In the end, I have one regret when it comes to this law, and it is for the great objections of cities such as Kruševac, Kraljevo, Čačak, Leskovac. Maybe it's a lot to get 30 candidates to support one candidate committee, and maybe that's the right thing to do. The numerical parameters are very exact. If 30 candidates support 70 council members in Krusevec, it is 2100 signatures to be collected to hand over a list of all 70 committee members. If the election in Krusevec comes to 60% of citizens, in a city of 140,000 people with the right to vote in local elections, it is close to 84,000 people who will go to the polls. The 5% automatic censorship is about 4,500 votes. So you have to apply half of the census as a signature for the local list, which may be a lot. It may not be much, though. We had a situation that in Vrnjačka Banja, of the 12 lists, one parliamentary political party won 13th place. There were 12 invalid ballots. There were more invalid ballots, than those who keep announcing that, here, they were about to return to power, won. It is a good success, being 13 out of 12 lists, and when there are more invalid ballots than there are political parties and candidates in the elections, it says enough about how Serbian citizens value everyone's effect in this parliament. For the end of this presentation, we also heard a message that Serbia needs nothing more than a firm hand. I tell you, you are in great error. Serbia's got a lot of firm hands. Serbia needs a clean hand. It is the Democratic Party that offered the citizens of Serbia a clean hand. I'm sorry you don't understand, but the citizens of Serbia accepted a clean hand and they said, "We've had enough for ever." When you decide to offer a clean hand, you will have the other side and the hands of the Serbian citizens and the hands of the DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58372	Fourteen minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has been reported, but you do not have the right to reply. The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević. After her, MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58373	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections are the continuation of the story we had in the amendments and additions to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, adopted on 25 May of this year. The story we were listening to at the time, which we are listening to now, consists of citizens having sovereignty in the elections and how citizens decide on what candidates will represent them in local parliaments. Of course, all to the purpose of so-called. the removal of elements of the indirectity of the election and in accordance with the so-called European principles and European values. Farsa on the citizen bearer of sovereignty in the election falls into the water when we look at what our electoral law is like. According to the current law, a proportionate, rather than a majority electoral principle is being implemented in Serbia. The election of committees is not done by selecting candidates by name and last name in local elections, but by rounding up election lists of parties, coalitions and groups of citizens. They don't know what names are on those lists, but they're choosing a party. It's a completely desensitized argument that these changes will make citizens know who they choose. What do you think of the citizen as the bearer of electoral sovereignty, we saw when the mayor's election was changed, or the president of the municipality. You have abolished the direct choice of these persons by citizens and imposed an indirect choice through local congregations. The president of the municipality, or mayor elected directly by citizens, is hardly subject to manipulation by the regime, especially when it belongs to the opposition. That was the reason for the change in the way these faces were chosen. If the election was based on the majority electoral principle, then it would make sense to speak of a citizen as the bearer of electoral sovereignty. As citizens in local elections choose lists of parties, coalitions and groups of citizens, there is again the choice of committees to be held directly and not eliminated so-called. the elements of the indirect election, as you stated in the explanation of the reasons for the adoption of these amendments and additions. These changes will not only bring about that, that parties and coalitions will start their lists of those candidates for the committees who, above all, are party officials, as the election will take place in order of candidates from the list. This is what you predicted last year on the 6th of this amendment and supplemental proposal, which refers to the addition of a new member of the 43rd existing Law on Local Elections. So we're going to make an official partocracy that we've had since we were 2,000 years old and come so-called. democracy in Serbia. In Article 5, you propose that in the election list of each of the three candidates, the first three seats, the second three seats, and so until the end of the list, at least one candidate must be a member of the gender that is less represented on the list. I ask – would the municipal electoral commission even respect a list of candidates of a party or coalition, if alternately, in any other place find a candidate of the other sex, which would be a ratio of 1:1, a person of different sexes? That would represent an ideal composition. If you strictly stick to this member, I believe that the municipal electoral commission would not respect such a list. This article shows all the absurdity of these changes and additions. Also, these amendments introduce a new member of 47th into an existing law that speaks of the committee personally resigning, certified by the authority responsible for the signing, the president of the local self-government unit within three days of the certificate. If he personally endures, why should it be certified by the competent authority? What's with the joke? Perhaps soon that won't be enough, so in the coming changes you'll ask the board to bring in, for example, two witnesses to resign. It is evident from all of this that the regime's intention to fully devis and degrade the system in Serbia is hidden. First of all, the right of the one elected by the people to entrust his mandate to the party whose original list he was on, which is guaranteed to him by Article 102. The Constitution. Then, by dictating the composition of the electoral lists of the parties two and one less represented sex, a kind of confusion and the possibility of manipulation by the electoral commissions with regard to the acceptance of the electoral list of a particular party is introduced. The role of political parties is fully marginalised in both pre-election and post-election actions, when the relationship of the elected party is almost completely interrupted. Even their mutual agreement on the ownership of the mandate in certain situations is prohibited. Again, it is contrary to the mentioned member of the Constitution, with many suspensions of the basic right of citizens to organise themselves politically and to choose the best representatives freely, according to their own criteria. The rankings introduced are practically unchangeable, which is absurd, because the parties have the right to conduct their own human resources policy especially after the elections, considering the results of the work. From the total confusion of illogical coercions, rigid, pointless imposing conditions and situations that such exhibitions can create, the conclusion is the following – it is necessary to confuse citizens as much as possible, to make them indifferent to all events, to demoralise them to choose according to their own will and conscience, elections and the will of the citizens of consciousness in form, to tell them that nothing depends on their voice, to give free hands to the powers to give blackmail and threats to their own voice, and to the various frauds to unpunishedly deceive voters by promising them in this employment, better standards and profiting on the global economic crisis. In the case of the latest local elections and additional local elections in some municipalities, we see that the electoral will of citizens has been played, as coalitions have collapsed at a place where they were not composed of an identical republican level. Therefore, a senseless justification was sought by the regime. It's that the government will function better, and the municipalities will be more successful. This so-called. The democratic recipe patented by DS and its satellites is the worst annulment of the electoral sovereignty of citizens and not just that. What is even more tragic, the purchase of votes, the loss of jobs for employees who are paid out of the budget, were the republican or municipal, not only was the cancellation of the will of citizens, voters, but it was a serious crime punishable by the highest sentences in civilised countries. Only with us are such things declared so-called so-called. European values. Election manipulations were a regular phenomenon in all previous elections. In Bor, where I come from, votes are bought on real voting markets and in the most diverse ways – money, artificial fertilizer, children's shoes, vision glasses, food packages, various contents, etc. The work included prominent individuals, some NGOs, sports clubs, individual private employers and others. Thus, the vote on the day of the election on the Bor voter stock market cost 1,500 dinars, and in the re-election of some 1,000 dinar election units. The mobile phone recording of a round number that we had in the Odzac elections was greatly exceeded in the 2010 re-elections in Bor. The lack of consideration and haughtiness of the voting regime has patented a new type of pressure on voters. Those who work in the state services and in the system of the mining-topic base Bor, as well as their family members, had to round up those parties whose staff directors are institutions in which the voters are working, in which way – with a flomaster or a chemical pen of a particular colour or marked with various geometric figures and symbols such as: squares, triangles and the like. If there were no such marked ballots, the voter would be at risk of losing his job, and thus the loss of material security for the family and who knows what else. That's how elections are controlled. You know exactly who didn't go to the polls and if it's his right, not his obligation, who went out and voted for another option than the one he was ordered to vote for. There's no end to election manipulations either. The candidate who represented the party's ideology and programme in the election campaign, from which he was given the mandate now as an unimpaired owner of his mandate, can completely deviate from the values he stood for and for which he was elected by the citizens. According to this proposal, this solution, such a con voter is fully legalized. The reasons for the future committees' behavior can be anything. It can only be significant to them. For example, he woke up that day as a European or didn't know all the values democracy and so on. European values. In this way, the corrupt principle that the board is the owner of its mandate has been brought to the institutional level and is legal. In short, the sights of electoral and post-election manipulations are legalized. This is a modern version of the so-called The dead boxes, so there's no question about the electoral sovereignty of the citizens. I wonder what the next move from all of ours and especially Western experience is. I suppose we'll soon be forced into electricity as the height of democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58374	Eleven minutes used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, followed by the Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58375	Mr. Ministers of Election Law and election rules are either supposed to be one of the basic pillars, perhaps the very foundation of democracy in some society. So, as you set election rules, as you understand election laws, that's how democracy will be for you. I hope we can agree on this. If that's the case, the question is why are you setting bad foundations? It's like if you were building a multi-story on some basis in which you didn't even install a gram of iron, it's just hard to do. In order for democracy to function, it is necessary to set such rules that guarantee, under one, that in these elections all run the election race under the same conditions. Two, don't confuse voters. Under three, that voters know in advance what kind of policy they're voting for. Then, that candidates for the council members enter the election race with equal chances and eventually that the voter's will rightly depicts the House of Representatives in this case, the local parliament. What did you do with this amendment to the law? You've actually put absolutely everything on top of the head, you've all been all over it, and what's white, you're black, and what's really, you've done something that even in the realm of theory, a man can't assume because what was white, an instant job with you has become black. It's like you're in the government or all or lawyers or all the painters. You know, only with painters and lawyers in the white part-time job can be black, and apparently you're neither, so it's probably not possible. The first thing we have to look back at is the time in which the electoral laws are passed. The standard, Mr. Minister, I think we can agree on this too, in the democratic world, which you are seeking, is that it does not enter into changes in election laws and changes in election rules in the election year. In many democracies, this standard that I have said represents the right Bible of electoral legislation. I don't know if it's because the Socialist International doesn't recognize the Holy Scriptures or if it's any other reason, but you've, therefore, deviated from this rule and for you, it absolutely doesn't represent the Holy Scriptures. When power changes the basic postulates of electoral legislation in the election year and introduces a whole new rule into this electoral legislation, it is at least not a clean job. When it comes to abolishing the so-called. The blank resignations, indeed, must be found with regret that our society has not yet reached that level of political development, political culture, political consciousness, political morality, in order to give up this institute so easily and we must all conclude it and it is simply one unsettling fact. Unfortunately, we have a free mandate as you do and suggest it is actually a negation of what you here represent as a free term. By abolishing the blank resignations, as you did in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and here, as you suggest here, you are in fact allowing the establishment of a stock exchange of parliamentary mandates, or as someone has said, you are setting up a kind of flea market on which only one type of goods will be found, and this will be in this case and according to this bill of law, a parliamentary mandate. What's going on here? It's where you lose and choke every free term. There's this free term, it's actually becoming a negation of what he's really supposed to be. Why? The councilman is no longer free, because he is now bound by the will of the buyer. He now, in fact, represents the interests of the buyer. Then there is an absolute end to the electoral will of citizens, or voters. That's the one, actually, the negative we're talking about. Secondly, there will be a mix of local rich people and local powermakers in the election. Is that what you've been thinking about? The committee member will no longer be free, or even limited, if you will not be bound by the original policy of the party under whose name and name he was elected as a committeeman. It is certain that the application of these rules, which do not actually fit the spirit of time in which we are, will bring the opposite effect of how you showed it to us here. One question, which regulates these amendments and additions to the law, is the issue of the closure or openness of the electoral list. The solution so far allowed the applicant of the electoral list to decide independently which of the proposed candidates would become a committee, of course taking care of many parameters. In the end, but not less important and what kind of candidate this candidate is, how many voters gave him confidence, how many votes did he get? You know, in every election post, citizens know absolutely well who will be representing them tomorrow. They know who the candidates are. They could create insight into this election campaign, who's the best, who's going to represent them and how at the bar. Now this possibility, as proposed by these amendments and by the addition of the Law on Local Elections, of citizens as voters simply do not. Now you're closing the lists and you're assigning the mandates by the percentage of what the list is. So no more election will, no more significance, no more results, nothing. Then why do you need parties in that case? You could have simply inserted two parameters here, an election commission and a committee candidate. There's your store till you're ready. However, gentlemen of the ruling majority, I think that not only by this law, but primarily by the law that was passed a few months ago, so the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and now this, as well as by many other solutions that you make here in the National Assembly, if you had, I would have said a little bit. You didn't think you'd be winning at that store all the time. You know, the store isn't a steady win. If it was, it'd be called profit. This is what it's called a store. That should also be clear to you when changing these original rules. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, I'll say one more thing. You have had an absolutely great chance to do both through these legal projects and through many others to do something for the citizens of Serbia. It is easy to say that you have had one historic chance, which is to remove from the back of Serbia those tycoons and those bloodsuckers that are indeed, I would say to suck the last drop of the blood of these Serbian citizens. With these changes in election rules, you not only didn't do it, but you're actually giving them wind in the back. That's how you reduce democracy in the country, that's how you bring society back, and that's why you, most importantly, allow tycoons in this case and according to the bill, so to local tycoons, to make absolutely all their interests come true. You could just stand in their way and tell them, that's enough. That's enough, there's no more honey you take so warmly from the citizens of Serbia. To do so, just as a father of Sava once did in the Voljavca monastery, when visited by the then folk hero Dusan Petrovic – Shane, he called himself the same as your minister of agriculture and when asked him if he had any honey, this one bragged him – there is no honey for the beetles. That's what you had to do now, to simply cut and say, no more honey for those bumblebees living on this people's hump. I hope that the citizens of Serbia will really know that they know all this and that their memory will not be short, at least until the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58376	Ten minutes and 44 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word, followed by MP Zoran Krasic. He's the last registered speaker. I'm just asking you to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58377	How much time, please? (President: Parliament Group 23 minutes is available for two members of parliament to be declared. ) Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, the MPs of the SRS have pointed to the important facts that are seen in the remarks. The first remark, this amendment and the addition of the law should not have come at this time when it is known that this is a pre-election year. On the other hand, it should be said that these elections that are coming are largely campaigned. The campaign is viewed through messages and promises from the current government, or coalition. You have a situation where the media is occupied. Now that you open a beer bottle, you'll see someone from the coalition in power who makes very false promises to voters and citizens. I would say something about this law specifically, given that on the last page you indicated - a statement of compliance with EU rules. On the 13th party's last position, you indicated and said – there is no relevant EU regulation to ensure compliance. The question arises - were there any need to call for compliance with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU, their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other, on the other hand? A transitional agreement. Mr Minister, SRS MPs are constantly pointing out when the law comes to Parliament for adoption and consideration, that what you are calling for the EU and the harmonisation of the rules with the EU, above all, should be borne in mind that Serbia has harmonised its most significant regulations and its best laws with EU countries. It is not necessary to work so hard to prove that we need to comply with our EU regulations. Take only from 1945 to 2000 how much the then state, the old Yugoslavia, has brought together and ratified international contracts and other laws. You will see that certain things are repeated here and that Serbia is part of the former SFRY and how it has aligned its legislation with European countries. Mr. Minister, I own the 1922 Election Act. You see, Mr. Markovic, the candidate list, Article 33, and I have to say this because you've made a big mistake, you've even done damage to the SRS in part, but you've done damage to yourself, too, because the SRS has overcome those attempts that went in the direction of breaking and stealing the SRS. You see, in Article 33. The law on the elections of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia is said to be at least 20 days away, i.e. 25 days before the day of the election, candidate lists must be submitted to the competent first-degree court for confirmation. Madam Chairman, you can see that our legislation at the time also made sure that what happened, that 22 outlaws left the SRS and that they formed a parliamentary club. They couldn't form that in any way. Here, you can see that it wasn't possible, Mr. Minister, you can see that it wasn't possible, who didn't file a list of candidates that couldn't achieve any mandate. What happened, it was a gift, but a gift that was made to them, and it was also a sign that eventually the coalition in power would have a good partner in the next election. So even then, the 1922 legislators did not allow for theft, manipulation, or this crime in the electoral system. You see, it's an electoral geometry, it's the means used to outflank the principles, the electoral technique of the existing electoral system, and to provide favourable election results in favour of ruling groups, or parties in power. It mainly comes down to ending the election results, so they are being set up to account for political parties and political parties in power. Thus, with the help of the electoral technique, the principles of general and equal electoral rights are played out, and the favouring of certain groups harms citizens who participate in the electoral process. Election geometry is not only a means of safeguarding the interests of individual political parties, but also serves to preserve the traditions and customs of providing voter votes in certain social layers, and especially to artificially reduce the influence and political force of working layers, i.e. voters. The election campaign, according to this law, and it has to change. However, I would draw attention and point out to Mr. Secretary, if we privatised public enterprises, not as much interest as we are in changing these laws, there would be no theft or trafficking with the council, it would not happen that one coalition in one city is shooting because a third partner has been expelled because his members have been arrested for crime, but in order for that coalition, now double, to remain in power, she buys the council members. How does he buy them? He buys councilmen who are 50 to 60 years old to be volunteers in public enterprises or in the city administration. They hire them in the middle of winter to be farmers. What to keep during winter? Well, to be a councilman, to vote for a coalition that's on the government. They are employed by companies, public and municipal, under contract, and these companies are overcrowded. Therefore, trade exists and this trade should be prevented, but this crime in the election campaign would never be privatised by public enterprises if the law was passed. When a director of a public utility company or an elder in a management body hires a boardman, you have in one city ten of them who have moved to support DS and DSS, but are all employed. I'm telling you, they hired them both in greenery and in heating and in management, volunteers, I repeat, even farmers to be in the process of winter, but only to have an abbey, i.e.. to be paid. Look, now, what's the problem? And those citizens who are in some poor countries are not employed. You see, the parties in power have all their employees, they hire them in the best places, they give them big salaries, and that's how they got it. That's why I just noticed that one speaker said - no one is going from our party. What he'd do when he was paid, he'd get paid, he'd be admitted to a job he could never get if he hadn't become a councilman and not been bought. That guy could never make it to work. Therefore, I am sure that if public enterprises were privatised there would be less crime in this area, regardless of which party would be in power, but there would be a smaller number of cases where these transfers and flyers would occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58378	It's been used 11 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He's the last registered speaker, and time is available for 12 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58379	Mrs. Komic, I must commend you and Mr. Novakovic, since you have conducted this session very well today, no one has received a warning. The fact that someone didn't get a replica, that's another thing, they have the right to judge for themselves whether you deserve a replica. Don't complain about Mrs. Comic, especially now that I'm praising her. Probably because of this July heat, and then there's more time for wisdom than there is for beatings...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58380	People's MP, I ask you that, with respect to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we do not necessarily prove that, apart from not dealing with the subject of the agenda, we are violating the Rules of Procedure, believing that we know how other participants feel in the session. The attempt by Mr. Nikola Novakovic and mine to lead this session according to the Rules of Procedure is, you say successful, and I say one of the most difficult, since there were so many things in the session's statements that they couldn't fit into the Rules of Procedure, that we thought it best for everyone to say what they had and so remove any doubts about everything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58381	Mrs. Comic, I just commended you, you don't need to be mad at me. Well, if you're stuck, I won't brag about you anymore. Here, Mr. Novakovic led this session extremely well. I need to get to know the public, we're a layman's congregation. Here it takes only 18 years for the MP, citizenship, that he was on the list, that he was elected and he held his party's views, so now, more or less successfully. In the early 19th century, there was positive discrimination in Serbia, so every fourth was asked to be written, to know how to read and write. Now you see what evolution is. Why am I praising you? Because we had a chance to hear some pearls. We first heard that a man was born in one place, boasted he was born, probably gave us instructions that when we heard him say that we didn't think he fell from Mars, but that he was born, and that's for every praise. Then we heard by 2000 there was a repression. I don't know why you were with the Socialist Party until 2000, when you are now one soul, one body, two eyes? Love blooms. I don't know why you're bringing up some repression in 2000? Mr. Markovic, something for you now. You're talking about some state election committee in the future, etc. We had it until 2000 and they were all judges and the thief was in the election, remember? So the congregation was on fire, and now you're back. Perhaps the time has come to rekindle the congregation. You know, take a step forward, don't go back to some old solutions that there's evidence that they're bad. It's got to be taken care of who's running. I know, Mrs. Comic, that you've always been in the DS account when you run for office. You were particularly concerned when you were running for Goran Knezevic. You've taken care of it, but it's not your fault, Mrs. Comic. Some other planetary force is to blame. So it happens to you, too. Next, we heard a man boasting that in the next local election he would be in the last place. Well, that's his impression, his desire, I support it. We've heard he's a member of the library and he reads the paper and reads the data in the library. In the library, only those who don't have the money to buy newspapers on the street read the paper. All right, the lay parliament is putting up with all this. In the end, I must tell you that we have heard a kind of cynicism, and you will understand, Mrs. Comic. You remember in September, October 2008, if two MPs entered the board's session just to give the quorum, there would be no problem with 20 and some mandates. They didn't want to give the quorum, and now they're complaining about stealing the council's mandates, how wrong this change is at the order of the Venice Commission, etc. It's a great success for the SRS. We've been convincing, and today everyone admits. So we've been right from the beginning, and what you're admitting today means that you're knowingly and deliberately going into this market economy development operation at all levels, including in the Assembly, with mandates, etc. I have to go back to what's the central question again. Passive voting law is relatively right. You can't raise him to the level of absolute protection. What else is more important? The obligation of this assembly and the obligations of every citizen, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is to prevent crime in all possible legal ways, and today in the debate, we have had the opportunity to hear from representatives of all parliamentary groups, including Yugoslavia, about serious crime and the purchase of mandates, and you have heard from Mr. Petar Jojic about what is happening in Pančevo. Even Pancheva knows that. We have a duty to prevent this kind of crime, we have a duty to prevent the act from showing up that kind of crime. What are we limited to? We are limited by something because we are members of the Council of Europe, which is the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. We must install measures that are appropriate to a democratic society. These measures were, among other things, those resignations and those contracts which were proof of the free will of the candidate for the committee or MPs, to comply with the party programme, the electoral programme. You removed this because support is needed for Euro-Atlantic integration, not for the representative representation of voters who said in the elections of that solemn day what they think Serbia should do, which programme should be dominant. Now these various gymnasics of lay nature are not helping, because it's just amazing that we have an MP who gets beat up by another MP in Baghdad, so he's running the procedure, asking for his immunity to be removed, and today I'm picking up. What brought them together, the staff with whom he beat him in Baghdad, and changed his mind, or the glue? That's what we need to talk about. He beat the shit out of him. Looks like he hit him pretty good. I can see he's been sneaking all over the place. That's the problem that's spinning us here, and all the citizens are clear on what's going on. Furthermore, do we have an obligation to protect crime in the National Assembly and in the congregations of municipalities? We do. Do we know what's causing this crime, what are the forms? We all know, all citizens know. We must protect democratic society. We have the right to introduce appropriate restrictions to preserve the assets of a democratic society, but the government will not think about it. Why? She was in Smeder's session, it was said – people, buy young people, promise, hire, let them put pressure on their parents, if in the next election we lose, our property goes, and these radicals will send us to jail. That's how it's gonna be. He's right, man. Because he said that sentence, he knows best what was done at the expense of this country and these citizens. Now, if we can kind of detached it, make it look washed, nice, on the orders of the EU, the Venice Commission, I don't know who, like it's some authority, so we have to do it, if we don't do it, if we don't get that signature, there's no access funds, so if there's no access funds, because there's nothing going on in Serbia, then we need to starve. It's a strong story. Is it different from those 1,000 free 1,000 Euros? It's no different. Are you going to fool someone? You will, but it takes control of both the authorities and the opposition. You've been denied this national security, they've reoriented to the Balkan warriors. There's better work, there's more money. Now this tycoon persecution, which owes the state a terrible debt. It is not persecution for the state to collect its claims, but to provide parties with a ruling coalition of funds, money to buy votes in the next elections to survive. That's why you're not interested in the election will of the citizens, you're not interested in it at all. Make some rules about how much to finish the job. You had those extra local elections. What did you do in those places from those great promises you made, Odjaks, Kovin? Why don't you open up the issue of the province's Capital Investment Fund. Where's your director? He went to the consul, then moved. Why is it moved? He has to talk. Why? It closes the circle, four billion losses. You don't know. Whenever I said it, you said it - it's not true and it's only been three months and it turns out to be true. What could I have expected better from you? Always disputing and denying. It's perfectly normal and expected, but in a collision with reality it shoots, rings everywhere. This bill of laws amending and supplementing this law will really allow organised crime and rich people to have both power and opposition in local self-government units. Even if you pass by this concept of public property law and return, as you say, the right to make available to local self-government units, all potentials of local self-government will disappear, will be privatized, be safe. Pull this bill if you have the courage. If you don't have the courage to move, I warn you, you will suffer all the consequences, but after the first next election, I don't know what the consequences will be, I just know that there will be great chaos and I'm absolutely sure whenever you call the election, all the citizens who voted at eight o'clock will come to the polls to check the results because every day you prove to them that you don't need to...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-14-0.u58382	There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. I ask, do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word, or anyone else, or who has not used their right under Article 96? No, I don't. ) In this case, I conclude a principled search and schedule a session where regular annual reports by the Citizens' Protectors will be held for Tuesday, July 19th, starting at 10.00 p.m. in the same place. Hello.
