ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 100 MPs attend the session, and in order to determine the number of present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic system. I find, by applying the electronic system, there are 152 MPs in the O.R., which means there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Srdjan Spasojevic and Mladen Grujic. As well as agreeing to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for today's session, alongside members of the government, to be attended by Boris Tadic, President of the Republic, Borislav Stefanovic, head of the negotiating team for talks with representatives of temporary institutions in Pristina and Jovan Ratkovic, adviser to the president of the Republic, Damjan Krnjević-Miskovic, adviser to the foreign minister. Also, at the Grand Hall gallery on the expressed desire to attend part of the session, I also invited representatives of the Russian Federation's embassies, the United States, China, India, Algeria and Slovakia. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 97(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set by Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and extremely for Saturday, so other than those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft agenda act set out in the Government's request to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 248. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the 10th extraordinary session with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 10th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011 the following Dn e n e d: 1. Proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the current state of play in Kosovo and Metohija following unilateral and violent acts by the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, which was filed by the government (No 02-2763/11 of 29 July 2011). We're going to work on the agenda. You have received a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the current state of affairs in Kosovo and Metohija following unilateral and violent acts by the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, submitted by the government. Before opening a single search, I remind you that in accordance with Article 191 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. Allow me, before I inform you of the time at our disposal of the honourable Members of the People's Parliament, a proposal has also arrived from the chairman of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Dragan Todorovic, in agreement with Article 97(3). The Rules of Procedure, where it is suggested that we work for a long time in the debate, namely that the time of debate for parliamentary groups is ten, not five hours. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search, provided there is a quorum to decide on, and we have a quorum, so I put the bottom vote on this proposal. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. Of the 190 MPs, 62 voted for it, so I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal, which means that the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia belongs to one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS-JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjin group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs, which is in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that, according to this item of the agenda of the parliamentary group, Members of Parliament will represent this: Parliamentarian Konstantin Arsenović – PUPS and Zoran Ostojić – LDP. Consent to Articles 190 and 191. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the proposal for a declaration. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word, or does Mr. Prime Minister want a word? Yeah. Please sign in. Here you go. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59061	Dear People's MPs and MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia has requested an emergency session of the National Assembly of Serbia due to a dramatic deterioration in the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. The crisis in Kosovo and Metohija has been caused by temporary authorities in Pristina, irresponsible, unilateral and politically motivated actions to ban the change of goods and the attempted violent takeover of administrative crossings. Their goal was to change the real situation on the ground, to bring unrest among the Serb population, to the institutions so-called. Independent Kosovo is being installed in the northern part of the province. The goal was intended to be achieved by causing incidents, trying to provoke reactions from the Serb population and making Serbia's international position more difficult. The Pristina authorities' core intention was to provoke Serbia by violent acts to break the dialogue that began to produce first results. The current position of the Serbian government based on Resolution 1244 is that we are obliged to solve all problems peacefully and diplomatically and exclude the use of any other means. In extremely difficult conditions and with very limited maneuvering space, the government of the Republic of Serbia's activities took place during these events. Serbia's government, i.e. Minister Goran Bogdanovic and the head of the Pristina-based dialogue team, Borislav Stefanovic, have been on the ground ever since the beginning of the current crisis. The first task was to ensure the withdrawal of special police forces, temporary authorities in Pristina from administrative crossings. During difficult negotiations and in an extremely flammable atmosphere, this task has been carried out. The second task of our people on the ground was to prevent incidents and ensure the protection of the local population and ensure the functioning of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government in municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija in a crisis situation, as well as the regular supply of the population. In addition to field engagement, the second direction of the Serbian government was aimed at mobilising the international community and pointing to the causes and essence of the deterioration of the situation in our southern province. A diplomatic and negotiating activity has been halted by the brutal attempt by Pristina to impose unacceptable solutions. The international community has been mobilised, an extraordinary session has been called for, that is, a debate in the UN Security Council to discuss Kosovo and Metohija. Despite the temporary and partial removal of dangers, open issues remain that we will have to face and define additional directions of action, especially in these circumstances when there is an obvious willingness of the international community to act contrary to UN Resolution 1244. Our main tool in the fight for Kosovo and Metohija is dialogue. Our commitment is not to take any move that would endanger the survival of Serbs in the southern province and would affect the destabilisation of the region. The dialogue, which began to produce first results, apparently clouded the ambitions of an extreme part of the interim institutions in Pristina that want to forcely change stops in the province. The international community under whose protectorate is Kosovo and Metohija and the Albanian interim institution in Pristina should also be made clear that the Serbian government will never recognise independent Kosovo, and that there are no blackmails under which they would do such a thing. Therefore, the Serbian government calls on the international community, the UN, to firmly adhere to Resolutions 1244 and the agreements reached, as well as to act in accordance with their mandate. Their mandate is to ensure peace and stability, not to build Kosovo and Metohija's illegal independence. Requesting international peacekeeping missions and KFOR military missions not to support unilateral acts, provocations and violence by temporary authorities in Pristina and not to cause fear with their activities and the uncertainty of Serbs and other citizens of Kosovo and Metohija. We call on the UN and the EU to re-affirm dialogue as a way to solve the problem and not allow force and unilateral acts to make an attempt to impose a solution. Serbia will never allow such blackmail. I call on citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, above all, Albanians to refrain from any violence and not to attack and harass their fellow citizens. I urge Kosovo Serbs to be unique and not make any move to do a favor to extremists who want to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. Express your protests peacefully and prevent the provocations of hooligans who are directly in the service of Albanian extremism. I call on MEPs to be dignified and unique and to support the government's activities in solving crises and ensuring survival and lasting peace, i.e. in defending the interests of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59062	Thank you, Mr. President. Do any of the other representatives of the motionor, or the minister, want a word? Sign up, Mr. Minister. I give the word to the Foreign Minister, Mr. Vuk Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present an international aspect of the crisis currently faced in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. This crisis is taking place in a complex international context caused by the strong and open support of some of the world's most influential countries, illegal and parallel institutions in Pristina, above all in the direction of unilateral acts trying to establish their statehood. The diplomatic activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other state authorities in the international arena have been directed, above all, to prevent the defacto of the establishment of statehood. It was not established in a legal manner by unilateral declaration of independence, because the Security Council did not make a decision on it. What is now resorting to in the international context is, above all, pressure on UN Member States to recognise a unilateral declaration of independence, as well as to vote for membership in international organisations, where membership is a privilege exclusively of sovereign independent states. With this in mind, the Foreign Ministry and other state authorities are constantly active and agile towards international factors, according to UN member states and international institutions, in order to prevent the two defacto of statehood established. That's under one, recognition of Kosovo's independence. In that sense, I can say that after the political conclusion of the International Court of Justice and the UN General Assembly's opinion in September as a result of the diplomatic activity of the Serbian state authorities, the process of recognition was almost stopped. All several countries have recognised Kosovo in the last year since we last had this situation and discussed it in the National Assembly. I can say that this has happened despite the great pressures of some of the world's most influential countries, which are almost daily and at a very high level of pressure on UN member states, to change their view of respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of this country. Also, it has been tried with unilateral acts, so with applications that have not passed the appropriate procedure, to allow membership in political international organisations to temporary self-government bodies at KIM. I can tell you that all these applications have been rejected. The parallel authorities in Pristina failed to secure membership in any international political organisation. As a result of their inability to affirm internationally, there has been deep frustration in the ranks of Pristina, and I think that one of the reasons for the unilateral use of force aimed at trying to change the real situation on the ground is that it is well caused by the inability to choose diplomatic means for the elements of statehood. Once again, the fundamental elements of statehood in the international public are measured by the number of recognitions and memberships in international organisations. This is not the first time Pristina has resorted to unilateral use of force, in an attempt to achieve a political advantage on the ground. We witnessed it in 2004, March 17th, when churches and SPC monasteries were attacked in Kosovo. He also screened a similar, unprovoked attack here aimed at creating circumstances in the international arena, to lead to progress towards achieving the goals of parallel authorities in Pristina. Since the beginning of this current crisis, therefore, on Monday, July 25th, the Serbian government and other state authorities have reacted without delay, diplomatic activity was alive, and already on July 26th at mornings in North American time, so UN working time in New York, the Serbian government has requested an emergency session of the Security Council. According to UN Security Council Resolution 1244, this is the body, therefore, of the Security Council, responsible for maintaining peace and stability in the province's territory, calling for Resolution 1244, we have requested an emergency session. In the course of July 26th, 27th and 28th, consultations were launched within the Security Council on how to respond to Serbia's request. At first, there were fierce resistances in maintaining this session. After 48 hours of consultation, this resistance has been overcome, given that the vast majority of the Security Council members have advocated acting on Serbia's request. In those 48 hours, we have been in constant consultations with all the Security Council member states, in which we have passed on our views, giving arguments, which is why it is necessary to hold this session. In the end, those who resisted holding this session remained in a significant minority and the session was scheduled in the form of a consultation for July 28th. From that moment on, we faced the resistance of a technical nature to have the session attended by representatives of Serbia. Finally, after much movement from the beginning of the session, the meeting began in the form of closed consultations. It is also closed to the public at the request of several members of the Security Council. The meeting began with a debate on Serbia's participation in a meeting initiated at Serbia's request. Three permanent members of the Security Council have firmly resisted opportunities for Serbia to address this meeting. Two permanent members have advocated that Serbia address and were part of a group of 11 countries that advocated allowing Serbia to perform. We have been informed of the course of the session, in more or less real time than we favored countries in this debate. The reason I can't name the countries that took this or that position is that the Security Council has been conducting closed consultations. So it wouldn't be correct and it wouldn't be appropriate in diplomatic practice to appoint countries. However, the fact is that the debate on the format of the session ended by three permanent members of the Security Council threatening the use of vetoes. Of course, you can't go beyond that, so the Security Council is set up, it's a wall that's impossible to skip if someone with such institutional capacity decides to take advantage of it. However, what they have done during the session is to deliver to us loving countries our key positions that they used behind closed doors, behind those doors where we were not allowed access. We had extremely good co-operation with a dozen countries, including two permanent members of the Security Council. The questions raised at that session, which were questions to which, I think we should all get an answer, primarily Serbia expects an answer, to those questions, because above all, whoever ordered a unilateral act of entry across the Ibar River of Special Units, so-called. The dew. Did anyone from the international community know about these plans, if he didn't know why he didn't know why, which is why Eulex left the territory of northern Kosovo and thus practically left Serbs and other non-Albanians without any international police protection at the time. How it came to be that certain international KIM organisations acting on KIM in accordance with resolution 1244 come out of their status neutrality. Finally, the fundamental political question is whether the use of physical force is a way to overcome any obstacle that arises in a peaceful negotiating process. We asked through those who participated in the session, who worked closely with us to condemn unilateral acts, as well as full respect for Security Council Resolution 1244. During the Serbian delegation session, she also held a meeting with the UN Secretary-General to convey our views and Serbian exposure to Serbia's intended Security Council presentation, asking the secretary-general to circulate the document to all UN member states as an official UN document. So even though we haven't had a chance to address the Security Council members behind closed doors, all these members including all the other UN member states have received our political message, they have received our presentation. In addition to the Security Council, which is of course the first and main address to discuss the peace and stability of KIM, Serbia has launched all other diplomatic mechanisms available to it. A session of the OSCE Permanent Council was held on Wednesday 28 July, where our views were presented, and our diplomatic consular network in the world, as well as our diplomats in Belgrade, contacted all Member States in a bilateral way, EU countries, UN member states, so on and others. We had diplomatic communication with Brussels, i.e. with the European Commission, as well as with NATO. Ambassadors, so-called ambassadors, were invited to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Quinte, therefore, the United States, Great Britain, France, Germany, Italy, where we have been formally presented to them with our view of the situation, as well as our request that their diplomatic engagement in the AP KIM territory, and above all according to the parallel authorities in Pristina be presented with the necessity of returning to the previous situation. It was also done in the capitals, therefore, through our embassies in the countries of Quinte. What we intend to do in the period ahead of us in real time, I'm also talking about the current moment, is to stay as diplomatically engaged as possible. We are in daily contact with all the countries of the world, with the vast majority of the countries of the world, and especially for countries that are influential and who have the opportunity to be part of the dialogue. First of all, I think of the member states of the Security Council, but also of countries that have their own international representation, whether through peacekeeping missions or otherwise in the territory of the AP KIM. We asked the secretary-general to document all events in the past few days in detail and to be an integral part of the UNMIK report at the next Security Council session, which will take place at the end of August in New York. It's a session to discuss the previous three months, so these events. It's going to be a public session and it's a session that no one can stop. If there is no need for earlier Security Council meetings, then at the end of August we will discuss in an open full format who is behind these events, who is responsible for them, what actually happened and how to proceed further in a way that provides peace, stability and the continuation of a political process that is the only way to find a solution to KIM. All our embassies, all our diplomats have received as an absolute priority reporting their contacts on current events. The foreign ministry practically works 24 hours in close coordination with other state authorities. We will continue to do so in the hours, days and weeks ahead. The main goal is to keep the international public from losing sight of the KIM situation. We have, above all, diplomatic resources at our disposal. What I can say is that all diplomatic assets are now at our disposal in full power. Since the unilateral declaration of independence, this is the foreign ministry's priority, as well as other state bodies, which implement policy in accordance with the Constitution and based on the binding decisions of this body, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is an extremely difficult moment, our position is quite weakened by the fact that the extremely influential countries of the world are working very actively to implement a policy that is contrary to our interests. But what I finally want to say is that this session, and that's the last thing from the international aspect that I think should be presented here, is that this session is being watched by the world public. The more determined and, more importantly, the more unique, I think we will be in a stronger position and use the diplomatic resources that are available to us to achieve our interests in the way they are defined by earlier decisions. I would once again appeal to the MPs to have this vision and to help both the government and all other state institutions at the moment to deal with the consequences of this severe crisis caused by unilateral acts of government in Pristina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59064	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Minister Dragan Sutanovac spoke of the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59065	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, from the first moment there was an unplanned incident that took place on July 25th, practically under the auspices of the dark, the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army has been in line with its legal powers and in accordance with an international agreement, which has been binding on us to prevent the possibility of escalating conflict and to prevent the possibility of losing life on both sides. I remind you that only through a series of happy circumstances that night has avoided more tragedy than this tragedy that was, that we have had more wounded and one dead, and that we have had the opportunity to see on the media a large number of vehicles that have practically suffered fire. I'm saying, fortunately, there's been no more tragic trail of things. From that moment on July 25th, we are in constant contact with KFOR, either with Mr. Biller through our envoys who were in Kosovo, or with his deputy through our General Staff, or with NATO's commander, the Admiral of the Framework, who is in command of Naples. What about KFOR? Because KFOR was the only one approved by the 1999 agreement, which the SRJ signed at the time, on the basis of which it was completed, as you know, the bombing and therefore the international military forces entered the KIM, including KFOR. As you know, a land security zone was then defined and then the possibility, the way and extent of the military's co-operation in Yugoslavia and KFOR forces were defined. Given that KFOR certainly represents NATO units, we informed all countries on the extended military committee on July 27th, attended by NATO representatives of the countries, as well as the countries of the Partnership for Peace, through the presentation of General Djukanovic what was happening in the KIM areas after our sighting and insisted that we get full support to prevent further escalating violence, insisting on bringing things back to normal, reset relations and attempts to create conditions for further dialogue and to continue talks in the desire to finally find a solution that will prevent extremists from coming into a situation of further escalating. On the same day, Deputy Chief of Staff General Bjelica had a meeting in Nis with the deputy commander of KFOR, where we received some information and were told to insist that we were not informed of these options. It has been said that KFOR's command had no idea what could happen under cover of the night of July 25th. It is obvious that there is a unilateral desire for authorities in Pristina to go in a totally unacceptable way, under cover of darkness, towards solving problems that cannot be solved in this way, that is, through force. What is the current situation on the ground is bringing us back to the Kumanov Agreement, the Army of Serbia, together with representatives of the Ministry of Interior, or the gendarme, which is located in the land zone of security, and on the basis of the Kumanovo Agreement, or an annex of the Kumanovo Agreement, under which we have a possible presence along the administrative line, has increased its patrols in order to prevent any crossings from one side and the creation of an ambience of conflict of broader proportions, in which I am afraid that we, as a victim of the event on July 25th, would turn out to be the culprits. Unfortunately, in some segments, we have failed to control the events, so the burning of the Jarinje crossing, which I believe exactly, was the desire of those elements in Pristina who wanted to show the Albanian side as a victim, and the Serbian side as a violent one, and that is a picture that has changed relations somewhere in the world from that moment on, and we certainly have much more tension and much more problems in the desire to explain that the Serb people at KIM, the victim rather than the culprit for the events that have happened. In the days ahead of us, we are giving all our capacity to find a solution and we are certainly continuing to communicate in accordance with the International Agreement signed in 1999 and with powers in the desire that this present state of affairs in KIM does not become something that I believe no one here today would want and no one here today has the intention of having such a thing happen to our citizens at KIM. We believe that there is a will on both sides, we believe that, despite the fact that, at certain times, KFOR has come out of its mandate, there is no interest in conflicting with the citizens of KIM. We believe that they will learn their maximum to avoid that conflict. On the other hand, we are making efforts through diplomatic channels, military-diplomatic channels to influence precisely those countries that are key and influential in KFOR, to explain to them that it is necessary to reset relations and return to initial positions, because every other position creates a problem for us and creates a great tension, because simply by trying to take the border crossing from those units that in no country in the world do not hold the border crossings in fact is a destabilised trust in the international community, and thus destabilised trust and in the acts that we have and we believe that this trust has to come back, because today if we look at the situation at KIM, if we imagine that there is no international military presence there, Serbia would be involved in something that 90 years of loss. We want this thing to be resolved peacefully. We are fully committed to peace, in the belief that Serbian citizens have confidence in what the top of the state is doing and that we will get out of this problem much better than we did in some past time, both in the 1990s and early 2000s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59066	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I give my word to Minister Ziric Nebojshi.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59067	Dear President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly inform this House of the situation regarding the so-called so-called situation. customs stamps for the situation under the CEFTA Agreement. I would remind you that the whole situation has been initiated by the administration in Kosovo about the placement of Serbian products on KIM territory. The government has taken a unanimous view that it is a violation of the CEFTA agreement. In particular, on July 25th, we made a decision and sent an official letter to CEFTA, in accordance with Article 42(2). CEFTA Agreement. We have made it clear that the decisions of the administration in Pristina are a flagrant violation of Articles 1, 3, 4 and 5. CEFTA Agreement. The letter we've sent, we've sent the SMARTK to Kosovo. Since 2011, the chairman of the CEFTA agreement has been the SMNIK of Kosovo. The procedure implies from the moment of sending a letter of 90 days in which the problem will either be resolved through bilateral consultation or the involvement of a mediator, and if this does not happen, the Republic of Serbia has the right to launch international arbitration and to seek, even as part of international arbitration, even compensation for damage caused by illegal administrative proceedings in Pristina. I must say that our consultations with UNMIK have not been interrupted, representatives of the economy ministry yesterday held an informal meeting together with representatives of the finance, foreign affairs and the KIM ministry with the representatives of Umnik. On their initiative, I must say, their proposal was that the non-recognition situation, they say, is being resolved within the CEFTA agreement, not bilateral talks. Of course, on that point we will plead, but I must point out, CEFTA is conceived as an organization or an agreement that should encourage free trade. The procedure is what it is. We absolutely respected her, reacted immediately after illegal proceedings, so we'll see. In any case, solving this seal problem I think is currently and definitely in the shadow of the current situation that is happening in northern Kosovo, but on the side of the government of the Republic of Serbia, all mechanisms under the CEFTA agreement are in motion. Also, I would like to say that we place around 350m euros in products on KIM territory and that together with representatives of the business of our businesses is looking for ways to keep these goods arriving in Kosovo. That's it. We will also report to you in the next period on the situation within CEFTA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59068	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the motionors want a word? The word has Minister Goran Bogdanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59069	President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, to honor Mr. President of Serbia, allow me to chronologically report to you these unfortunate events that have been happening in the last five days in the area of the North of KIM. The attempt to take over the administrative crossings of Jarinja and Brnjak on the night between July 25th and 26th and the crisis launched at the time is the biggest challenge of peace and stability, but also Pristina's most serious attempt to penetrate with its institutions in the north of KIM after unilaterally declared independence. On July 25th, after 21,00 hours, special units members of the Kosovo Police Service took a co-ordinated action to take the administrative crossings of Jarinja and Brnjak. On that occasion they used almost all the effects of their special units that they had at their disposal. Citizens of this part of the province self-organised and blocked the highways of Kosovo Mitrovica – Ribarića and Kosovo Mitrovica – Raška to prevent further movements and attempts to violently take over administrative crossings. Around 23.00 hours of July 25th, the Brnjak administrative crossing, known as gate 31, was violently taken over by the special police of temporary authorities in Pristina. Shortly after that, Serbs from this part of KIM blocked the Brnjak administrative crossing, while the move towards Leposavic blocked completely. A little later, about an hour after midnight, citizens in Kosovo Mitrovica are gathering, and KFOR and Eulexa members are blocking the main Ibar bridge in order to prevent possible conflicts. Only about three hours after midnight were the citizens of northern Mitrovica split up, thus removing the threat of possible interethnic conflicts, and members of KFOR and Eulexa withdrew from the Ibar bridge. Immediately after obtaining information about the attempted violent takeover of the crossings, along with the head of dialogue with Pristina, Borislav Stefanovic, himself headed north by order of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Our goal was to reduce tensions on the ground itself, prevent further escalation, but also to achieve direct communication with all relevant status neutral actors in the territory of the province. This is what we wanted to clearly encourage the Serbian population in this part of the province, but also to demonstrate the willingness of the Government of Serbia to solve all and even the most complex issues and situations with peaceful and diplomatic means. During the night of July 25th, as well as during the morning of July 26th, citizens were able to prevent barricades from insertion of special units of Pristina police. Since our arrival on the scene, about three o'clock in the morning, we have been in constant contact with KFOR Commander General Miller, but unfortunately, representatives of other missions, especially UNMIK and EULEX initially showed a much smaller willingness to engage in solving this problem. At the same time, we have tried to inform citizens of everything on the spot, completely transparent, without any embellishment, and only truthfully. We warned, in doing so, of the fact that the provisions of Resolution 1244 are severely violated and that this situation threatens to escalate into violence with severe consequences. Despite all this, we've faced a series of difficult factors. During the whole first night of the crisis, representatives of the international community's good work, with rare exceptions, were inaccessible and passive. It was only when it became clear that Pristina's action was unsuccessful, unilateral and adventurous, and under the cover of full trade embargo and the establishment of controls at the main points in the north of KIM, that representatives of the international community also began to advertise. Such behaviour feeds our suspicions that Pristina did not take this move without at least the silent consent of the international community. Bilateral members of the international community, who recognised KIM's unilaterally declared independence, expressed ambiguous views that implicitly supported Pristina. Mostly it all came down to disapproval of Pristina's action, mostly, but they fully understand what it did and what it pulled Pristina as a unilateral act. Former EU Special Representative, and now current international civilian representative Peter Feith explicitly supported this adventure. As far as the international KIM missions themselves are concerned, their behavior during the greatest part of the crisis was quite confusing and unconsistent. Initial information from the field indicated that several of the EU mission's jeeps were in a column in which the so-called "Rossa" headed north to KiM, so that, after the initial reactions, Eulex would fully withdraw and have a very restrained and weakly noticeable role during the continued crisis. The only international factor to take an active role in the first hours of the crisis and engage in dialogue with Serbian representatives was KFOR. Just like this, the under-clear setting of the international community towards Pristina has led Pristina to see this relationship as an implicit encouragement to continue its actions, so during the afternoon of July 26th, immediately after the withdrawal of Albanian specialists from the administrative crossings of Brnjak, their re-grouping and re-trying to take over this transition took place. This time they were regrouped with the reinforcements of members of the so-called "Rosse" shot at Serbs, who took their vehicles to the blockade and who responded to the fire at that time. Unfortunately, this epilogue coronated that we had the death of a Kosovo police officer. The members of this unit then retreated after a clash in the south of Kosovo's Mitrovica, and the citizens continued to block the magistrate's path. After the incident, during the afternoon of July 26th, at the Jarinja administrative crossing, an agreement was reached with the KFOR commander until Wednesday, July 27th, at 0800 hours, from all administrative crossings to its bases in the southern part of Kosovo Mitrovica and Pristina to withdraw all members of the Rosa special unit and to make a complete return to the previous situation. Unfortunately, the situation then got complicated again, given that KFOR later, at the beginning of the principle role, began acting first vaguely, and then completely exceeded Resolution 1244 frameworks and took positions on the Pristina line. Namely, with the help of their KejFOR helicopter units, they transferred members of the KPS police and customs officers to the administrative crossings of Brnjak and Jarinje. Despite the lack of full respect for the agreement of the previous day on the withdrawal of special units and the return to the previous situation, the KFOR commander was again met during the afternoon of July 27th. After the meeting, it was possible to pass the US contingent KFOR column. Immediately after a meeting at the Jarinje administrative crossing, the commander of KFOR, along with the president of the municipality, addressed the participants present at the blockade, urging peace to be preserved and not enter the administrative crossing area. Given the complex situation, the presidents of the municipalities in the north of KiM have declared a state of emergency and informed the citizens of all this. Serbs in the north of KIM interpreted KFOR's behaviour as supporting Pristina's goals. I must, honourable MPs, tell you that because that's the perception we've seen down there with the citizens. This kind of action, instead of dropping tensions, has practically allowed KFOR to create the impression that the military mission has been instrumentalised by Pristina and that it violates Resolution 1244 in a very harsh way. Serbs in the north of KIM have always feared the possibility of Pristina accomplishing through KFOR what failed by violent actions. This led to extremists on the Serbian side organising the burning of the facility at the Jarinje administrative crossing, which took place around 19:00 on July 27th. On that occasion, a group of 50 masked persons set fire to the temporary facilities of the Kosovo police service and so on. Kosovo customs. Molotov cocktails were used in the attack, and after the fire, the objects were destroyed. During the attack, there was also a burst of fire from the direction KFOR forces were stationed. Given that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, under Resolution 1244, has no authority in this area and that there are no members of our security forces there, we were unable to influence the incident. A dozen members of the Kosovo Police Service and Eulexes, who found themselves in the administrative crossing facilities, evacuated to our side of the administrative line and offered EULEX all the necessary assistance. During the night, on July 27th, on the roadblocks of Raška-Pristina, locals and members of KFOR and Eulexa are allowed to pass. About 01.00 hours after midnight at Jarinje's administrative crossing, the crowd of citizens only claimed that it had been agreed with KFOR that their members would take control of the administrative crossing. After that, members of the US KFOR contingent were deployed from both sides of the crossing site to make clear after the crossing, in which we helped them, i.e. Helped locals around noon, except for passenger vehicles, provided bus and truck traffic. At the same time, between 14.00 and 14.30 p.m., KejFOR's members set up a total blockade at the Brnjak administrative crossing, so the traffic on the master's road in Kosovo Mitrovica-Ribaric was interrupted during that time period. At 14.30 p.m., it is possible to pass vehicles through the administrative crossing, selectively, with increased control. The blockade continued to apply to buses and freight vehicles with goods from Serbia. The presence of KPS members, so-called Kosovo border police and customs services of Albanian nationality, which are at the crossing of only observers for the time being, without active participation in the control of vehicles and passengers. At the same time, violence and incidents against Serbs in KIM were escalated in the part of the province south of Ibra. On July 27th, about 12.30h in the village of Susica, the surroundings of Strpce, three armed persons of Albanian nationality physically attacked Radiš Milenkovic, who was returning home after picking mushrooms. On July 28th, about seven o'clock in the morning, members of the special unit KPS Rose physically abused Marković Duška and Svilanovic Zoran from the village of Klokot on the road Urosevac – Skopje. They've been intercepted by a Rose patrol, stopped by the road, and with a gun pointed at, violently pulled them out of the vehicle. On the same day, harassment by the KPS in Libya, SPC priest Igor Djokic was physically attacked and was ordered to return to Serbia, as a priest was born in central Serbia. The situation is further complicated and difficult to deal with, statements by representatives of international communities who have expressed their readiness to fully implement Pristina's trade embargo acts and the deployment of Albanian police and customs officers to administrative crossings. Also, turning the crossings of Brnjak and Jarinje into so-called. The forbidden military zone in which ammunition was allowed to be used has heightened tensions. It is little to say that such statements and procedures coming from Pristina and the works of the international community were in complete contrast with all the guarantees of returning to the previous situation that our party had received in the previous three days. As a result, the people from the north of KIM during the night, 28th and 29th, blocked in several places the highway route of Haraško and Ribaric, preventing peaceful roadblocks from passing KFOR, Eulexa, any attempt to move KPS. During the morning of July 29th at the Brvnjak administrative crossing, the government's decisions in Pristina were attempted, but given the peaceful blockades and the situation on the ground of both crossings were soon closed. At the same time, during the afternoon of July 29th, another round of talks with KFOR commander and EU representatives tried to regain their respect for the initial guarantees granted in full to the former state. These attempts didn't lead to a shift. KFOR insisted on removing the blockades, while we on our side intend to give up peaceful protests and blockades. Yesterday's and tonight's situation has been relatively peacefully resolved by the withdrawal of KFOR. During the night, any further tensions. However, we are clearly told that KFOR will resort to using force every time. That is why we continue to monitor the development of the event, because we cannot rule out that at the moment until this session is under way there will be no attempt to use force by KFOR. It is clear that Pristina has calmed down because it expects the military mission to do its job. It can be concluded, honourable MPs, that we have managed to act as members of special units so-called. Kosovo police will be withdrawn from the north of KIM. However, it is clear that no guarantees are respected that the situation will be normalised and restored to the situation before the incidents. KFOR has apparently begun to act on lines that do not respect Resolution 1244. As a result, tensions are still present among the Serb population and the attempts of extremists on both sides cannot be excluded to manipulate citizens and to challenge even more serious incidents. We must admit that our activities have been severely restricted and with a very limited maneuvering space. Our main weapon was dialogue and determination not to take any move that would endanger the survival of Serbs in our southern Serbian province. Diplomatic and negotiating activities only temporarily and partially removes the risk of attempts to impose unacceptable solutions. However, there remain open issues that we will have to face and define new answers in order to respond more successfully to the international community's readiness, the Pristina authorities to act contrary to the frameworks of UN Resolution 1244 set up. Given the complexity of the moment, I believe that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should support the activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in defending the interests of the state of Serbia in the area of KIM. Now finally, honourable MPs, I want to convey to you the message of citizens, not just from the north of KIM but also south of the Ibar River, meaning the entire territory of our Serbian southern province, to show unity today, not one-mindedness, and to show everyone that we truly care about defending KIM, not to use this difficult situation in KIM in partying, in collecting cheap political points. This is a request from all the people downstairs living on KIM, this is a request from the people who are standing at the barricades right now. Please, I also want all MPs, especially those with KIM, regardless of party views and party differences, to support particularly this resolution proposed today by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a message to all KIM citizens no matter which foreigners they belong to, because we've been in a situation these four or five days to see what kind of unity there is and why the citizens down there are and in what way their true, legitimate interests of the dam are. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59070	It's about the declaration, and just let the Rules of Procedure be announced first by the MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted a total of five amendments to the Serbian Government's proposal on the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and the report of the Legislative Committee shows that only amendments by Dragan Todorovic, Aleksandar Martinovic and Boris Aleksic have been discussed at the session of the Legislative Committee, but we do not see that they have been taken into consideration by the amendments of General Bozidar Delic and Dejan Mirovic. Very important amendments that essentially correct the text of the Declaration Proposal because unlike the Government of Serbia, which euphemistically says "part of the international community", we clearly indicate which part of the international community has violated Resolution 1244, that it is a NATO pact and that it is the majority of EU member states, so I would like to ask the President of you or the chairman of the Legislative Committee to give us, in accordance with Article 163. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly explain why the amendments of Bozidar Delic and Dejan Mirovic were not discussed at the session of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59072	Thank you. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, the president of the Legislative Committee, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59073	I thank Madam President, therefore, the Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a declaration at this session as well as the amendments submitted. I will remind an esteemed colleague that a single search is being conducted in today's session, given that it is a proposal for an act that is not a law but a declaration. The Committee's session discussed the amendments, the opinion was delivered to the National Assembly, these two amendments, which were not rejected by counterpart Martinovic, were not expressed, were not in the report, but were therefore discussed and can be discussed at today's session. Therefore, as with the other amendments, if the proposing representative finds that they are celery, he can accept them, the parent board can also, of course, the MPs in the tide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59074	It is obvious that the amendments in the procedure are equal to all other amendments. You're reporting again on the rules of procedure, you can't have the same member twice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, without the desire to heat up the atmosphere at this session, but allow me, Article 163 paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure: "The competent committee will reject incomplete amendments with offensive content, which will report to the National Assembly". If the president of the Legislative Committee finds it offensive to mention NATO's pact and most EU member states as aggressors to the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, it has had to submit a report, not to give us such a rather incomplete and incorrect interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59076	I think it was clear that the amendments were not rejected, they were not discussed. I give my word to Mr. Borislav Stefanovic, head of the negotiating team. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59077	Thank you very much. President, honourable Members of the People, I will be very brief on what I want to bring to you today, after returning from KIM and before we go there again. The situation is really dramatic. It accepts the situation of the elements of the emergency and minor war conflict. So in that sense, I have to, among other things, besides what we've negotiated with General Biller, tell you what the current situation is as we speak here and as we deal with members of whether this member or that member is broken, to hear what's going on at KIM, on those barricades where people are waiting for a signal from this assembly. In any case, we, as you heard from Minister Bogdanovic, went straight to Kim, the night the crisis began. We found a people, who are completely upset, freaked out, with no response whatsoever, without any directive, with no direction in which they will move, except to block the road. The Brnjak crossing is busy right away. Jarinje crossing is not busy just because the citizens of Leposavic reacted quickly enough in this regard. It was on the verge of an escalating armed conflict. At that moment, we arrived in front of the citizens, immediately spoke to them, and immediately asked them to remain calm. I immediately entered and Minister Bogdanovic came with me, directly to talk to General Biller, who came to our call on the spot. At that moment, the KFOR commander enters the role of negotiators with our side, not wanting that role. We're in negotiations with someone who can talk, since the police's commander at my insistence was not ready to talk about anything but possibly about us moving, which we couldn't accept. This conversation, like anyone else with General Biller, was about the next point. First, to remove the absolute and total dew of police from northern Kosovo and Metohija. Second, to unblock the roads. Third, to agree on the status and functioning of two administrative crossings, at least in a temporary sense. The first point is completely resolved through our agreement. The second point was fully resolved through our agreement and the third point was not resolved because KFOR unfortunately could not guarantee that it would no longer transport so-called. Kosovo customs officers are crossing to administrative crossings. These are the things we talked about. Meanwhile, there was a major crisis yesterday, when a large KFOR convoy came to a blockade, where there was a large number of our citizens who protested peacefully and sat on the road. We re-entered the conversation with General Biller and after three and a half hours of conversation, with citizens sitting in the sun all the time, on the way along with the priests of the SPC and the staff of the institutions, we were able to agree to preserve peace and human lives, and to return KFOR to its base for the time being. At the same time, as you've heard, it's only been said for now. What we have an acute problem and what the entire state summit is working on and the President of the Republic and right now, is to try to prevent, ladies and gentlemen, from breaking the blockade. If there's a violent breach of the blockade, which we prevented yesterday with severe torment, there's always a possible further escalation and entry into some conflict that no one wants. The Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens who were with us there were completely unique in the following things. First, we don't want any conflict and no one wants any violence, violence is condemned entirely. The second thing, the situation at the administrative crossings should return to the state it was in to give a chance to agree on their functioning. As a countermeasure to the citizens' blockade, KFOR has introduced a complete blockade of two administrative crossings, a complete blockade. So, the patients, the mothers with the kids, the groceries, the drugs, nothing can go through right now. It's a condition to unblock the administrative crossings, for the citizens of the North KiM to lift the roadblock. They don't want it until the demand for things to return to their previous state of affairs. That's the situation on the ground. What's true is that they're all unique in that. There's no division of the party. I have to read to you the names of the people who are standing there with the people, as we speak and who are listening to us now and who have worked very hard together with the representatives of the government to solve this crisis, who have given full support to all our efforts to come to a peaceful solution, which is the only way to solve this crisis. I must say, these are Mr. Dragisa Milovic, President of the Municipality of Zvecan from the DSS, Mr. Slavisa Ristic, President of Zubin Potok municipality from the DSS, Mr. Ninić Branko, President of the municipality of Leposavic from the DS and that is Mr. Krstimir Pantovic, President of the municipality of Kosovo Mitrovica from SNS. There is, of course, Radenko Nedeljkovic, head of the Kosovo-Mitrovina County. Please give it up for these people. These are the people, gentlemen, standing there with the people waiting for us to try and solve this crisis. [[Applause]] If today we're going to find out once again that the sky is blue. If we are to realize that unity is the name of the newspaper that Serbs read in Kosovo and Metohija and nothing more, then it is best that we all say goodbye to Kosovo and Metohija right now. I want to tell you one more thing. We have a hard day and a hard few days ahead of us. We'll continue to discuss two things. Right, let's find a solution to the roadblock. Secondly, let's find a solution to the administrative crossings. Citizens are unique in their demands. You heard them. They want what the state of Serbia wants, but they are also unique that there must not be any violence and that any extremism and what happened in Jarinj must be condemned as harshly as possible. This has caused enormous damage to our national interests. Any such act will, believe me, be pounded on the back of Serbs south of Ibra, as they began to do. Let's be aware of what's going on here. What's going to be a terrible message from this respectable, tall home to the citizens who are watching this right now is that someone is trying to use this partyly while the fire is on fire. That we don't support this declaration. In the whirlwind of this crisis, ladies and gentlemen, from which we came to address you, expressing great respect for you, there were, unfortunately, people at the local level, who wanted to take advantage of this party. You know what these people say? They say, there's nothing to talk about, give simple solutions, we have nothing to talk about. Of course no one makes any suggestions, but there's nothing to talk about, but brothers, let's face this problem physically. I'll say one thing for the end. Of course, I am ready to answer questions and comments later. If we don't have a chance for dialogue, if we don't have a chance for a normal democratic process and a deal, if we don't have a chance to talk to anyone in this world, anyone, no one here can look you in the eye. Believe me, it won't, out of shame, if you don't support that one time. Everything else is a disaster. That's what I'm responsible for. It doesn't matter if it's me or Goran Bogdanovic, it doesn't matter at all. What's important is to find it through an agreement, and the easy solutions that some, unfortunately, people in northern Kosovo have been propagating the last days, making it worse, unfortunately, to sabotage what the state is trying to do, are solutions, there are no conversations, and as we continue, we'll see, the worse. No mother can cry. No life must be lost. No one's head hair should be missing. I'm telling you, all citizens are unique in that. Why am I saying this? Because there are some who think it's not so important, that it doesn't matter, that they won't trash, they won't tell us, let's say here people who are willing to take that risk. Let them tell the citizens what's the alternative to the agreement, what's the alternative to this dialogue? In the meantime, we'll try to solve the acute situation, and that ends up preventing a breakthrough and trying to break through the blockade we have today, the citizens are unique, and in the meantime, I want to make an appeal. I give you my regards from those people where we all need to come back together and they ask you to be unique and to give a unique message from this home. I want to ask you to think about it as soon as possible and find a way to help with food, medical material, because if the crisis continues, believe that we can get into a really difficult situation. The government will, of course, I'm sure, absolutely do everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59078	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Allow me to inform you that, in accordance with Articles 87 and 90 of our Rules of Procedure, we will work after 18.00 hours until the end of the agenda, and that according to this agenda, the DSS parliamentary group – Vojislav Kostunica will represent Slobodan Samardzic, a National MP. Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, re-advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, so as it went, Mr Stefanovic, I thought he would go into a physical fight with the MPs. Mr Stefanovic is, therefore, if you can calm down those who are for the EU and NATO pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59080	Mr. Martinovic, please make a joint effort to ensure that the atmosphere in the hall is adequate, please, first of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59081	So, Mr Stefanovic is an official of the government of the Republic of Serbia and is not a spokesman for the Serb people at KIM. The SRS does not accept the hypocrisy presented by the government representatives, that we should not use this session for day-to-day political purposes, and then Mr Borko Stefanovic exclaims the names of people belonging to DSS, DS, SNS. Secondly, Mr Stefanovic, don't defend the Serb people in KIM from MPs, especially from SRS MPs, NATO's aggression is at work. You explain to the citizens of Serbia why you are for the EU. Why are you still for the EU and why are you still a NATO pact in a situation where the NATO Pact continues its aggression in 1999, and to ask you, Mr Stefanovic, is it true that the president of the Republic, who cares deeply about KIM, went to watch the transfer of the Serbia-Italy water polo game?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59082	Mr. Martinovic, no damage to Parliament's dignity. Mr Stefanovic just spoke in fact and every sentence was with the tendency to take care, not only of the Parliament's dignity, but of course, above all, of the need of all citizens living on KIM. Anyone else from the government want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Ljubomir Kragovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59083	Ladies and gentlemen, before the beginning of this session, the KIM Committee held its session without the presence of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all members of the committee who were present unanimously supported the entry of this motion for resolution into the assembly procedure, and since we have not reached that time, we have received the necessary materials, i.e. The amendments to the motion for a resolution sent by the other parliamentary groups decided that after receiving these materials, or an amendment to the motion for a resolution sent by the other parliamentary groups, we would decide to re-schedul the committee's session and to consider the amendments and the motions for a resolution. This is one clear view of the unification of the KIM Committee and all MPs to finally discuss the KIM problem in this high house, to make some guidelines, some recommendations that would be binding and which, in the future, hope to be respected, rather than to throw the mockery than the previous resolutions were thrown under the carpet, and then it was one policy that led to this happening in the last three days in KIM space. There is nothing to do if we are constantly courting, and if we are just talking, Europe has no alternative. If Europe has no alternative, then there is no kim. We need to make it clear that there are other friends out there on this planet that we can talk to. I listened to all of you, gentlemen, none of you, except Minister Bogdanovic, mentioned the word "Euleks", and what you told us three years ago, that this is a mission that needs to seduce order, work and discipline and prosperity in KIM space, and now you are ashamed to mention the Eulex mission and even what you're saying, you speak in a negative connotation. Why did you send an SB memo for an emergency session, why didn't you become a council in Europe, because there are your friends who guarantee that Serbia with KiM will join the EU. No, that is not true, it is a devastating policy of this government of the Republic of Serbia, and only the way back into the UN field, the return of the KIM problem can help the Serbian people and the state of Serbia solve the KIM problem. I want to point out here and the words that Mr. Borko Stefanovic said, let's all say goodbye to KIM right now, you've been, you've said hello, and I have to go back, as much as tomorrow or the day after, I can't say goodbye, Mr. Borko, because I'm down there with family, women and children, friends and relatives, my entire family lives down at KIM, and I can't say goodbye to them on behalf of your Western friends who are doing this to us. No one here will say who organised the really that night, according to the defence minister, an unplanned incident on the night of July 25th, this was organised by a temporary institution, but with the consent of Christopher Delo and Peter Faith, you should stress that and say, with NATO's consent. You did not ask why US KFOR members are now in Brnjak and Jarinj, is there a division of the KIM area's responsibility, because we know that the northern Kosovo zone is under the responsibility of France and that America controls another KIM territory. No, they're here now to teach us a lesson. Why? Because you gave them the strength, you gave them the silent opportunity to come and raid the KIM territory, the northern part, and to harass the remaining Serb animal. Because you don't want to see reality, you want the reality of the rest of Serbia, not the reality of Serbs in KIM space. Why do you want to cancel the 12-year struggle in KIM space, to enter Europe, and you will never enter it. To get candidate status, to get the next election, to be at those functions and in those chairs? He came to us...
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59084	It's been five minutes, and otherwise you haven't even spoken to the Committee's rapporteur, you have no more words. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59085	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected presidency, the respected citizens of Serbia, the honourable members of the government, allow me to welcome the ambassadors of friendly countries on behalf of the PUPS party, and also to welcome representatives of embassies and ambassadors of countries who do not favor Serbia, and it is good that they attend today's assembly to see what the Serbian parliament thinks about the situation in Kosovo. On behalf of the PUPS party, I will state my position on the declaration by the National Assembly of Serbia on the current situation in KIM following unilateral and violent acts by the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. After meeting all conditions by Serbia, by delivering Hague indictees, asked by the International Community to get a bid to join the EU, Serbia has been made clear that recognising Kosovo's independence will be a new condition for obtaining an EU bid. They did so through the separatists of Kosovo, who violently tried to change the real situation on the ground. This act has put additional pressure on Serbia and made an attempt to essentially repeal UN Resolution 1244. In doing so, Pristina tried to accuse Serbia of a new situation. So, on the scene, the scenario is known, that the victim is found guilty. I wonder what the world community's reaction would have been if Serbia had really done so, although, according to Resolution 1244, it would have been right to station at the border towards Albania about 1,000 soldiers and customs officers? I'm sure there'd be sanctions. It's just a matter of what form. We must realise that the situation in the AP KiM is very complex, and the Serbian and non-Albanian populations are in an extremely difficult situation. They are particularly exposed after the latest events in isolation and are exposed to all forms of harassment and humiliation. If that were the case, to remind me, I would only list a few facts that point to double standards when it comes to the position of Serbs on KIM. In the early 1990s, all actions by Albanian members of KIM by the global public were declared a terrorist act. In time, however, the international community is changing its attitude towards terrorists, and the aided by a foreign factor is founded so-called. KLA, and terrorism is used as an instrument to take away KIM, and according to a predetermined scenario. The NATO Racak case was set up as a cause for Serbia's bombing. Following the adoption of Resolution 1244 and in order to establish peace on KIM, a peace force institution has been established tasked with establishing peace and functioning of all institutions until the final settlement of KIM status. However, since the arrival of the UN-KFOR peacekeeping force in KIM, double standards remain. Serbs and non-Albanian populations remain exposed to various pressures, persecution and harassment. If that were true, I have downloaded these only a few data from the information provided by the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija to the Committee on the KIM National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. According to this information, since the arrival of KFOR peacekeeping forces in KIM, more than 220 thousand Serbs and other non-Albanians have been expelled from their residence at the AP KIM. There were more than 7,000 ethnically motivated attacks in the KIM area, more than 1,000 Serbs and 14 members of other ethnically discriminated communities were killed. 841 Serbs were kidnapped and 960 people were badly wounded. This data suggests that more Serbs died during this period than during the bombing. That information further states that out of the 437 Serb settlements, apart from Leposavic, Zvečana and Zubin Potok, 312 settlements were ethnically cleaned. The Albanian population destroyed over 5,250 tombstones at 254 cemeterys, while there are no entire monuments in more than 50 cemeterys. Nearly ten years after the end of the conflict in the province, the largest number of displaced persons still live far from their former residences. The constant attack on the returnee remains limited freedom of movement, and the security of Serbs and other non-Albanian peoples who survived in Kosovo remains uncertain, their lives are constantly at risk, as has been the case these days. The return is being obstructed by the interim institutions of Kosovo and Metohija, and the employment of Serbs and other non-Albanians is almost impossible. The latest report by Dick Marty points to all brutality and inhumane behaviour towards Serbs and the non-Albanian population. The report by Dick Marty adopted the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as well as a resolution on the inhumane treatment of people and illegal trafficking of human organs in KIM. However, it is all still a dead letter on paper, and an attempt to investigate this terrible and insane act is firstly obstructed by those who advocate the so-called. Human rights and so on. democracy, and for reasons that an independent investigation would lead to the knowledge that these monstrous acts were done under their wing or at the very least speaking with their blessing. The latest film made in France is an attempt, a monstrous attempt to blame the work on Serbs. We can only assume what pressures Serbia has been under that, God forbid, Serbs have done it. What is our situation in Kosovo and Metohija now? From our point of view, it is catastrophic, unstable, risky, with numerous challenges, and further escalating events is possible, which confirm today's government representatives' presentations. KIM's history ends, it writes a new one. It goes to the point where the monasteries were not built by Serbs. Nothing that's Serbian is spared, not churches, not cemeteries, not property, not lives. So, the scene is about undoing all the spiritual, moral and cultural values that Serbia and Serbs attach to KIM. All of this, unfortunately, takes place under the auspices of the peace forces and with the blessing of certain world powers. In objective terms, Serbia is in an uninvited situation. We have two opposing and conflicting attitudes. On the one hand, the Cypriot, separatist, who sees only independent Kosovo, ethnically cleansed, and supported by those who have recognised Kosovo's independence. On the other hand, we have the Serbian urge to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of KIM, with a clear commitment to respect for human rights and the freedom of all citizens of KIM. On our side are the Constitution, the UN Charter, the Helsinki Act and other international documents, in which state sovereignty and territorial integrity are the cornerstones of the modern international order, which is again contrary to the will of individual states that have recognised Kosovo's independence. With all this in mind, as well as many other facts that will be discussed today, a simple question arises – what do we do? When I ask this question, then we have to come to an agreement with a cold head. Emotions will not lead us on a good path, with our basic commitment that Serbia cannot give up KIM, and we all know the reasons. We in solving this for us an extremely difficult problem, in my opinion, have only two options. The first is to take the guns into our hands and start a new war, which in my opinion and in the opinion of the PUPS is insanely and in advance doomed, for the reason we've had enough war, and even after the war, we have to renegotiate. We don't have any potential for this option objectively, and even if we do, I really think it's war on Serbs and it's time to stop howling Serbian mothers in black. I don't rule out this option, it's never too late for her, we may be forced to do so, and that's why the authorities on this problem have to think well, but Serbs shouldn't be the ones to start it. The other option is negotiations, negotiations, and only negotiations. Even though they lasted very long, until we realized, so to speak, an approximately desired goal, the basic foothold must be resolution 1244, insisting that it was consistently respected, although it never fully revived. The accusation, why it came to me, is insane, as it is now insane to accuse and seek the culprit for which the Serbs on KIM have become a minority people. To accuse Lazarus, the king, Tito, Milosevic is now insignificant. We're where we are. We are in the situation as it is and we must try to solve it in the best way possible by the Serbian people. Everything forward has been told well known to all of us, but I felt the need to say it for the simple reason that I feel that we have to talk about it in every place and in every situation. Of course, it can do much better for competent people, who do research and the history of KIM. We need to get to know the world's public about the real state of KIM, especially the people of the mind and those who favor us. I know that many know that, but we must not ignore that the unobstructed means of informing the Serbs and Serbia, and that picture in the world has to change. I am convinced that the truth of KIM will come to the surface, because I believe in that people's saying. Nobody burned until dawn. When it comes to the content of the Declaration, which this Assembly today is to adopt, the PUPS considers that it has realistically painted the situation, without saving even certain international factors, and the text of the Declaration in the present situation offers, in our opinion, the only possible solution. We do not claim that there may be better suggestions, but we do not see them or are unable to see these better suggestions now and propose. That doesn't mean that if someone has a better idea and a better solution that we won't support them. On the contrary, any good idea is welcome, and as far as we're concerned, we will accept it only if it leads to a peaceful solution. In the end, I would like to comment on two or three views from the Declaration. First, points 2 and 3. The declaration decidently states that the International Mission to KiM violates the status neutral frameworks of the trusted Resolution 1244, thus jeopardising the survival of the Serb population and the interests of the Republic of Serbia in the KIM area. This is what we fully agree on. I would add to this a comment, which clearly does not belong in the Declaration, that this was done with orders and the least said blessing of individual countries, including EU members. This clearly suggests that the EU, at least those countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence, will condition Serbia's entry into the EU to recognise Kosovo's independence by Serbia. It states to think - does Serbia have to go to the EU at all costs? We want to, but if they won't or keep setting new conditions, where will that get us? We'll be neither there nor there. Europe will not make the Serbian people happy. Joining the EU will make many regrets, but we cannot survive on our own. Therefore, it may be time to choose alternative advertising, and this solution is known. In point 5. Declarations under a), b), d), d), d) and e) The Assembly clearly defines the obligations of state authorities and other public actors to defend sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. All options are open here, but it is only important that the competent authorities find the best possible solution and establish the government's obligation to regularly notify the Republika Srpska Assembly of the development of events from certain activities. It's up to us to support them. Finally, I would like to stress that PUPS will support the Declaration, as well as any new good proposals. The PUPS is urging all MPs, as well as Serbs in general, to achieve as much unity as possible in further measures to address the problem at KIM, to support this and completed declaration. It would certainly strengthen our positions in further negotiations. We also urge the international community to respect the KIM Resolution and ensure peace at KIM. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59086	National MP Dragan Markovic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59087	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, the SPS – JS will support the proposal for a declaration offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Following what happened at KIM these days, I couldn't hear from the previous speakers a little stronger criticism with a little harder times when it comes to the greatest war criminal, that's the president so-called. Kosovo governments Hashim Thaci. Why did Hashim Thaci give a warrant for a special task force to arrive at the border crossing? Because a few days ago he was indicted against his deputy, Ljim, because I am sure there is a lot of material evidence for Hashim Thaci when it comes to war crimes, because two international representatives, Carla del Ponte, in his book and another international representative, said he was the organiser of human organs trafficking, as he sent Serbs to Albania to the yellow house. As a cover a few days ago in France, a film showing a completely reverse state, where Serbs were depicted as someone who traded with human organs, that doctors were Serbs, etc. Apparently, they think they're going to double-cross the world like they did in the last few years. Of course, Belgrade is not about Serbs fighting and burning punches, but we have to find one fact that cannot be forgotten, that Serbs have been in fear for the last 20 years in KIM, not sleeping. When these special units bring you to the border crossing of the Croatian soldiers, members of KFOR, what are these Serbias who were to work in fear for 20 years, to applaud that unit that came to the border crossing without writing in any international act in Resolution 1244 or in the Kumanovo Agreement? We are wondering from the SPS parliamentary club – JS what would Albanians do if KFOR were to transport Serb troops to Djakovica and be at the border of Albania? Obviously, I am sure that there is no responsibility from Belgrade nor anyone from the International Community to frame the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the President of the Republic of Serbia, because such a situation cannot be kept under control. We are not for this, and we are asking the citizens of Serbia for KIM not to do this anymore. But what is the reason before that is the seal. Is it because of such a thing, and that already the dialogue between Pristina and Belgrade, where the issue of seals is discussed, a unilateral terrorist act by Hashim Thaci takes place and sends a special unit to the border? Ladies and gentlemen, I've had several meetings with very important ambassadors in recent days, and I can tell you that more of these ambassadors are really looking at the situation that's happening at KIM. I will not say that an ambassador with the greatest internship currently in Serbia, from an important, developed country, EU member states, said Albanians are wrong and that someone from the international community is supporting what Thaci is doing at the moment. We also want to ask the Security Council and the EU who created the text of Resolution 1244? They are not Serbs, Serbs are forced to sign the text, although some members of the text did not respond to Serbs at the time, and they are not responding to us today. Resolution 1244 is not respected. We ask the international community, we from the SPS-JS parliamentary club, to respect Resolution 1244 and not to apply the double arches on KIM, that Albanians are always protected. Ladies and gentlemen, the NATO Pact has bombed Serbia for genocide and ethnic cleansing, and in fact Serbs have experienced both, and that will prove themselves in the coming period of time. I am sure that our representatives and representatives of the government and the government of the Republic of Serbia will never accept something that will be at the expense of Serbian citizens, but it is very difficult to negotiate with someone who has international support. What more does the world ask of Serbia? Everything you asked of us, ladies and gentlemen, we respected. You asked for a gay parade, although 97% of Serbian citizens don't like it. Come on, those are some European values, all right. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends from Europe, you asked that there be a NATO Pact in Serbia, and we said, "Okay, we want to co-operate." NATO members are also members of some countries that have very good relations with Serbia. If I had wondered then, I would have opened up the office on Prince Milos Street, in that building that has no carpentry, not because of Serbia's negligence, but because we did nothing to challenge NATO's pact to bomb these facilities, where there are civilian buildings across the street. Just to remind NATO that everything their representatives asked Serbia to do, we accepted. The US Vice President Mr Biden and we from the SPS-JS Parliament Club were glad to accept his arrival in Serbia, hoping that what was unlawfully imposed on Serbia would be corrected. There were other high-ranking international representatives coming. We have come to the conclusion, from the SPS-JS parliamentary club, that it will never tell the International Court of Justice that the international right has been violated in the declaration of independence of KIM, but we expect, based on the facts and material evidence that is on the side of Serbia and the Serbian people, that it will work out morals with the representatives of these countries and say -- behold, the Republic of Serbia has respected everything we asked of it, that at the end of this year we get candidate status for EU accession, that next year we start negotiations and that Serbia is located where it belongs. Also, the international community has asked for respect and for all Hague indictees to be delivered and that's what we did. I don't know what else to ask Serbia for in the coming period, but if you ask that the Serbs at KIM squat in their bathrooms, basements, hide, and that Albanians walk to their teeth every day and fear that their children will be killed, I'm sure Belgrade can't guarantee it to the international community. I can't have ten Boris Tadic, ten Mirko Cvetkovics telling a Serb in Kosovo whose brother, father or son is missing, to this day you don't know where he is, to say -- well, they had the right to shoot at children who were killed in Gorazdevec and were in swimsuits. It is the greatest terrorism of all time that Albanians have done at KIM. We, as a parliament, have to keep things down, but it is much harder for them than for us in Belgrade to look at and convince them of something we know that 99% are right, except that they are wrong to burn checkpoints and where KFOR is. We expect KFOR to help Serbs, apply the same arches. Just one more thing to tell KFOR and the international community. Serbs did not burn the checkpoints because of KFOR, but because of fears of former KLA members who are now specialists, Albanians, and because of them they did so, not because of KFOR and international community representatives. Please, as Parliament, today we are unique even though there may be something else in our political programmes, but to show that this is a moment, really, when we need to be unique about the national issue. It is an election year and it is that many people live in Kosovo, a large number of party presidents have promised to defend KIM, but we cannot defend KIM by war. We must negotiate, dialogue, as this government of the Republic of Serbia has done. I can congratulate, not on the speech today, Mr Stefanovic, not on the speech he spoke, he was a little sharper, but I understand him, because he came from the hotspot, but to congratulate him on what he was doing in negotiations with KFOR and with international representatives. That was a really hard task. At certain times, he had to decide whether to accept or not. That is why this parliament should also support the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, to respect the Constitution of this country and Resolution 1244 to be respected by those who forced Serbia to sign the resolution. I call on Serbs to listen to instructions from the government of the Republic of Serbia and representatives for Mr Stefanovic's dialogue, not to fight back and not to be provoked to fight back with violence without the international community dying, and that things that happened on 17 March 2004 and Gorazdevac happen. I am sure that this government will never recognise the independence of KIM and that the parties that make up this power, and I am certain that 99% of the opposition will not recognise the independence of KIM, to send a message to the world and to the American ambassador to KIM, who has mildly supported the Albanians, but also to thank the US ambassador to Serbia, who said that Albanians are wrong about what they are working on KIM and that today we are not attacking the world, America and Europe, but that we are thanking them for what they have done so far and from now on and for the coming period to see the right situation when it comes to Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59088	Twelve minutes and 45 seconds were used from the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Does MP Velimir Ilic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group want a word? Yeah. Here you go, just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59089	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I am very sorry that this debate did not occur much earlier, when there was the opportunity to warn both the EU and the UN and many countries that supported independent Kosovo, but better ever than never. I am very sorry that this debate has been postponed and that some leaders of the ruling coalition have said that it is not necessary and that it should not be maintained. I am very sorry today that we from the opposition have been given the word to speak at the moment when the game is played and when much of Serbia is watching water polo. But it doesn't matter, you've organized it nicely, and we'll say what we think. We think there has been a situation that is now extremely difficult for Serbs in northern Kosovo, in general for Serbs in Kosovo, as well as a great disappointment for Serbs themselves in Serbia. The government was able to solve these problems significantly earlier, significantly more effectively, significantly better, but now that it has burned to the nail, it is addressing parliament and asking parliament to bring this declaration and ask us to support it, which is not disputed. When it comes to any declaration on Kosovo, Serbia should be unique, all parties should support it and stand behind it, regardless of any mistakes, which is a problem from this government. I'd just like to ask a few questions for the government. We had one great position, we had one very large capital, and this is Declaration 1244 of the Security Council, which was on the Serbian side, which protects the interests of Serbs and Serbs. You gentlemen of today's government, your product is EULEX in Kosovo. Where did Eulex come from in Kosovo? That this parliament has never considered, this parliament has never given the green light to EULEX enter and replace the international forces formed in Kosovo to give security to Serbs and other non-Albanians living in Kosovo. You have introduced Eulex at the small door and you have accepted the EU's pressure to entrust the mandate to EULEX to deal with the situation in Kosovo. Today, we listen to people who have done this on a small door and visited this parliament and have not listened to an appeal made by the Serb opposition and have struggled not to come to this and that this issue will be when the great problem of Serbia as it has shown today. You trusted Eulex because you got political support for the election. You believed the Solana that showed up in your campaign. You have believed many people from the EU who told you – we will only bring you in to keep you quiet, let this pass. Today, gentlemen of the government, it is not right for ministers to speak 20 minutes after the prime minister who spoke for three minutes. This shows that this government has a problem. This government has an extremely big problem and disagreement. Now that we're listening to some of your coalition partners, you can't guess if that's the story you're telling, that you're talking in Brussels, that you're talking here, that you're talking about in Kosovo now, or if that's another story. Of course, you are now grasping the straw and looking for a solution and we are going to help get to it, as much as we can. I repeat, you've made great mistakes at first. Trusting individual EU countries that have made you a variety of promises. You mention today, one of the ministers spoke here all the time, ten times in his speech he mentioned the administrative border. What administrative limit? You want to avoid that customs. Albanians, i.e. sharps, want customs, want the basic attributes of the state, they want customs between Serbia and Kosovo. There's no administrative limit, they want customs. It wants a border crossing and it has to be clear to everyone. And Serbia will not and Resolution will not and the Security Council will not and we will never allow it to be customs. Don't give me that expression of administrative demarcation, the administrative limit. The Security Council has clear and loudly adopted the resolution as far as Serbia is and that customs cannot be there and can never be customs. Do not let the Russian government, that the Chinese government be more Serbian than the Serbian government. They backed Serbia's Security Council to the end that no decision could be taken that would be harmful to Serbia and would give Kosovo independence. Let's not be less Serbs now than others. We have to fight. It's true that we were forced to do so. Do not run away from the fact that someone has occupied Kosovo and is down there doing what they want and supporting Pristina today. No one can. I've seen your fight, Mr. Minister, Mr. Stefanovic, and I support it, but it must also be supported by international forces. You must be supported by everyone, because you respect the Resolution, you respect what the Security Council has brought. You're not looking for anything out of it, and that's why you're right, and that's why we'll always support you. But everyone has to understand that it's extremely important and that it has to be supported. We may not achieve our right in Kosovo now, neither will our generation, perhaps not in the mandate of our politicians, but we will achieve it, in five hundred years, but when we will achieve it because we have a Security Council decision that is extremely important and important and we legally have documents in our hands that say that Kosovo is part of Serbia. There can't be any customs, there can't be any boundaries. Therefore, we will support you in this, and surely we will work on it together. He can't get away from Eulex from time to time and push KFOR and then retreat, so he comes back, etc. We need to know who guarantees the safety of Serbs in Kosovo, according to Resolution 1244, clearly who guarantees the security of Serbs in northern Kosovo and who guarantees it must show that it is indeed a guarantee of peace. And then there won't be any problems that are evident and that are now coming forward. Serbs in Kosovo if they get customs, if they separate from Serbia, they must leave Kosovo. And it's clear to everyone. We need to support them as much as possible to stay down there and we can't accept any blackmail at this point and we need to be unique, to do it really, how we should do it with dignity and with the support of our friends who in the Security Council are doing it so that we can just do it all the way, and we can't give in. There will be pressure and there has been pressure on Serbia, but we have to endure these pressures. We must endure, and we must not allow any blackmail, to give something that someone is looking for to get some immediate reliefs, privileges, promises, etc. Therefore, Serbia must know what it wants. I hope that in this we will all be unique and that we will all do it together. Therefore, gentlemen Ministers, you must be unique in the Government, you must know what you want, you must always come about this Parliament and report, submit a platform of negotiations, ask this Parliament to approve it, to know what you are negotiating, to inform us that we can follow it. You are not authorized to make any negotiations without this parliament without the MPs knowing it and that MPs have not cast their votes for it. And you will always get a vote, I repeat when it comes to Kosovo. We think, we do not agree on many problems that arise in Serbia, especially economic problems, I am very sorry that the Minister of Economy and Development is not here, regional development, but his ministry must think a little bit and help the Serbs in Kosovo much more that has worked so far. It has to be done to keep them down and survive. For them, Serbia must stand firm and be their confidant, that they can live, work, that they can survive downstairs and endure this period that is extremely difficult. You saw for yourself while you were here, government representatives, that the Serbs down there were complex, unique, that they were all behind one project, wouldn't let them behind one project, that no one trampled them, that no one would humiliate them, that no one would separate them from the queen. They're not looking for anything by force, who knows who set the border crossing on fire. Have them determine the authorities. I guarantee the Serb didn't kill him. Serbs are simply down there to protect themselves, to protect their families, to survive in those areas and to watch them rise up into this queen, their Serbia, as in their deity that guarantees their survival and security. We have to do it. Therefore, I ask you all, from the president of Serbia, the prime minister, to fight for everything that can be done right now in Kosovo. That fight will be long and hard, but at least in this generation we don't spoil anything. Perhaps someone, in some generations to come, will be able to resolve the status of Serbs in Serbia's interest, but many have fought for freedom for centuries and have succeeded. And we will succeed, with God's help, I guarantee that Serbia will succeed. It may not be in our term of office, in another term, but in someone's term, it certainly will, because it's part of our territory. We have the right to do so, and I don't think we should spoil it and make it difficult for Serbs in Kosovo. So I ask you no customs, no talks on this issue and negotiations, no border between Serbia and Kosovo can be made, because it is a decision of the Security Council and behind it firmly, we must all stop and support it. If our friends in the world support it. If the Russian government supports it, if China supports it, let's not give it up. Let's not let that problem get past us, as the Eulexa problem appeared by entering down into Kosovo. You know how you let him go. You know the government fell, because some people didn't want to accept it, and you accepted it at a small door just below the grain, and here you see today what a problem it is. Once again, I am giving you support in front of New Serbia and we will all unanimously stand behind your declaration that you have proposed, regardless of what we did not participate in its writing, regardless of what we did not participate in the adoption of the amendments that have been given, but you have our support, but keep your word and what you said to the Serbs in Kosovo must be sacred. No, I repeat, there is no customs between Serbia and Kosovo. There can be no limit between Serbia and Kosovo, because it is a Security Council decision. Stay on it and move in those frames. I repeat, you have our support, but don't betray us and anything below the grain to push through, like this story with Eulex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59090	Fifteen minutes and 45 seconds used since the time of the parliamentary group president. Does MP Zoran Ostojić want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The mandated representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59091	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I hope it is clear to everyone that they are appealing that this debate today is not used to obtain cheap political points is about all of you, not LDP. So far, we have spoken courageously and openly about the Kosovo problem, and you will agree that what we are saying was certainly not reaching political points, even on the contrary. This is how we see responsibility to the citizens of Serbia, not only to those who voted for us, but also to those who did not vote in favour and to all the citizens of Kosovo. That is why we do not want to deviate from this policy of truth, not today. I won't be collecting cheap political points on behalf of the LDP. That's what I leave to you who are so heartily appealing that it is not done, and I see that it will be a contest in patriotism. We are not here today to measure the degree of patriotism, nor the President of the Republic of Tadic, nor the Prime Minister of Cvetkovic, nor you, to count the blood grains of patriotism, but to tell the truth. We haven't heard from you, unfortunately. We supported the unreserved dialogue that you started with Mr. Stefanovic. You know why? Because we believe that dialogue is in the interest of people living in Kosovo, especially Serbs and the solution to these problems they have. You know why we still supported it? Because this dialogue is a sign for us to leave the current wrong policy on Kosovo. Unfortunately, the dialogue stopped and here's what happened, and it'll always be when the dialogue stops. Mr. Tadic said the other day that he had the impression that we were responsible for the interrupted dialogue. All right, maybe that's an impression, but why did you get that impression? Still today, there will be a measure of patriotism here by who is a bigger Serb, although there in Kosovo both north and south of Ibra than our patriotism only someone can get hurt. Someone's already been killed. I hope no one else gets hurt. It's not patriotism to continue to sow illusions, deceives, and pump emotions. We've heard here 50 times 1244. What don't you say, what's 1244? What guarantee is that? What does KFOR have as a mandate of 1244? Why don't you say what the International Court of Justice said about Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence in the context of 1244. That no resolution has been broken. I remind you that Kosovo has supervised independence and is not independent. This is where we're arguing, whether Thaci ordered special forces alone or with a consult with someone. Well, I believe in consulting someone, because Kosovo has supervised independence. It's not independent. Someone would seem to like it to be independent. Today, I repeat, we offer our hand and support for the turn and turn in Kosovo's policy, but in this resolution that is ahead of us there is no turning. Unfortunately, there's a lot of what we think is wrong, what we think is the wrong policy that led to this situation. So, unfortunately, even though we'd like to, we can't support her. You didn't have to go to New York to hear what you were told. That problem is not solved in New York. It was created on the Belgrade-Pristina route and will be resolved, waiting there at the door, hearing what we have been telling you for years, and even your ambassador, your favorite countries are not asking you to officially attend those consultations. So today we may need to talk about this four-story policy. It seems that some pillars are rolling or the problem is, after all, they're obviously shaking, because our minister had to wait in the waiting room, or in the hallway. Whether we have a problem with foreign policy or with the minister, then let those who put together the government decide. We constantly describe ourselves as the leader in the region, but the leader in the region is basically going to meet problems and solve them. At one point in September last year, we took that road and we could maybe in some long time show that we were able to send a different picture of ourselves. Above all, and above all, what we have failed 20 years ago, which is to present to those who decide our Serbian interests to theirs. Others did it, so they did it. We went contrary to those interests of those who decide, and therefore none of our own did come true. That's why anyone who suggests conflict, isolation, sanctions of a new, declared or unproclaimed, I have to say what an alternative is. We, for example, do not say, unlike others, that the EU has no alternative. We say – yes, full-fledged EU membership policy has an alternative. That's what it was and what we have from the 1990s until the departure of the last government that tried to burn Jarinje, failed, was more successful by inciting embassies around Belgrade. We have to make this policy change to send about a different picture of ourselves to those who decide, a different picture of the world. That, I repeat, we were able to do it at one point, but then everything goes back to the way it was, and now we see that the issues here are also elements of the revitalization of what happened in Jarinj. Who knows who set the fire, let's not accuse, etc., everything reminds me of the relativization of the violence we saw here in Belgrade. I'm not going to enter now whether you came by buses from Serbia, then from Mitrovica to the north or from Mitrovica, and in any case insinuate that despite the clear stance and the publication of official authorities that Serbs are concerned with insinuating that some Albanians are indeed defending violence in the Serb enclave. I don't think that contributes to the country's reputation. We think that all further moves in Kosovo's policy should be an instrument for the implementation of the main political objective, which is rapid EU entry, full membership. And we think that simply the entire space of the former Yugoslavia has that perspective and it would be crazy for Serbia to give it up. We have no doubt that many, who do not want Europe's Serbia, Serbia in the NATO Pact and the EU, do not doubt that it corresponds to violence, we do not doubt that violence policy is closing Serbia's candidacy. We hope that both the government and the president of Serbia will be at the level of the tasks waiting for us by the end of the year and that, I say, the reflex and the push of the old policy we see in this resolution will be just a reflex and a twitch. It is unacceptable for the LDP to use enhanced emotions and reckless moves, and they, I repeat, mean the continuity of the wrong Kosovo policy in any way endangers Serbia's progress towards the EU. In some of today's discussions of government members, especially Mr. Stefanovic, we see it. It would be better, Mr Stefanovic, instead of giving us a patriotic lesson here even though you were once a member of the Civil League, but people change, you better explain to us that you didn't go to Brussels to discuss the customs stamp, even if you didn't agree or explain whether you agreed that the seal had neither the contents of Kosovo UNMIK, but that it did not say the Republic of Kosovo on the stamp, but that it wrote Kosovo customs. And be in Serbian, Albanian and English. It would be better if you took advantage of it than you said. After all, to tell us what makes the world think we've cut off the negotiations. I hope that this move, this hint of returning to old politics, does not mean entering a pre-election campaign that will sacrifice Serbia's candidacy, that this is an estimate that with patriotic rhetoric must be entered into the campaign and that we will see later for the candidacy, because it will take a long time, and for you, Mr Stefanovic, I hope that this patriotic, how can I say, outpouring, is not let me say competition with Mr Jeremic, you are also here for the applause you have won. Now you can see, if you remember, that we were right when we said that Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence does not solve the problem. We said it doesn't solve the problem, because those people who live in Kosovo still have a problem. But we have said that Serbia will destroy itself if it continues to persist in the old politics, at the values that have suffered defeat, and in the end, on the policy that led to this, because it was successful we would not be here or you think we are satisfied, we should all be satisfied with the situation we are in. No, I don't. The conflict with Europe and the world and turning its head from the reality in Kosovo in principle only goes to the harm and life of citizens and European perspectives. We can't be a leader, and we have the lowest wages, the highest unemployment rate, we're the oldest society, and most young people want to get out of this country. That is why in the coming months we need a really strong legitimacy and a return to that policy when Mr. President Boris Tadic tore up that resolution of Mr. Jeremic and wrote another and simply, we would probably be willing to support this resolution if it had what was in one resolution, it seems to me in December 2007, and here in your proposal, in this preamble, you do not mention it, for some reason, and the same is the resolution on Kosovo. I remind you, that's when a sentence was inserted in that resolution, it would be a mistake, but if there were something similar in this resolution that was in that resolution, and then Serbia was put in a neutral military position. If this resolution made it clear that Serbia wants to be a member of the NATO Pact, it would be a difficult challenge for us, and admit it, there is no one here who will honestly admit to himself, sorry that Serbia is in the NATO Pact, would Serbs from Kosovo feel more secure than they do now? Laugh you, but it is the only way and we have long told you that Serbs or if you brothers Serbian radicals love that flossula – the Serbian boot is once again trampling over the sacred Serbian country of Kosovo, so it is only possible and this is not the case. As you can see, you will probably support this resolution, because I am right, because in this resolution there are an awful lot of old politics and mud and Shessel and Kostunica's government. Do you really believe that Serbs would not be better off if Serbia were in NATO a pact, Serbs from Kosovo? I'm not collecting political points, I'm saying what most citizens don't want to hear, but you know how, most citizens when they go to the doctor, they don't like to lie to him, they like to hear the truth. If he's really sick, give him proper treatment. So there must be one party that's telling the truth. These others who like to play on emotions will be, and you will probably vote this resolution with the same unity so far. Since the LDP has never voted for this wrong Kosovo policy before, LDP will do nothing to harm the country's unity or you're saying that once before or if LDP voted, then everything would change. No, you wouldn't. You and I both know you wouldn't. There have been a lot of care here for Serbs from Kosovo, but from northern Kosovo. I remind you, gentlemen, that more Serbs live south of the Ibar River and try to imagine how they feel now. It is easy to Serbs here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in Belgrade, it is not difficult in northern Kosovo either, but the other day there was the Kosovo Assembly and there were Serbian MPs, there it is difficult to condemn the sending of specialists to administrative crossings 30th and 31st, so these Serbs did it anyway. It is difficult to condemn the introduction of the embargo there, so Serbs sitting in Kosovo's parliament and in Thaci's government did so anyway, because the decision was made by them. Just because it wasn't in the press in Belgrade doesn't mean these people didn't do it. In any case, you understand, their security, these Serbs south of Ibra, in enclaves, Gracanica and Strpc, depends on Kosovo institutions, neither can Serbia nor EULEX guarantee them. The pumping and strengthening of emotions can lead to the process that began after the burning of Jarinj, isolated incidents towards Serbs living south of Ibra. Think about it when you talk about Serbs from Kosovo and about them and their position. It's easy to hit here with your fists on the table, but there's someone else who gets hurt, a broken head or worse. That's why I urge us to talk about all Serbs in Kosovo. Certainly, those Serbs south of Ibra are not responding to the embargo, because it is actually going to them to harm. To these north of Ibra, the right to tell you, there is a business, you well know that since the introduction of this embargo, the day and a half of the introduction of the 62 trucks have entered northern Kosovo. Whose trucks are, I believe you know better than I do. So, I say, we can't unfortunately support this declaration, because there's a lot of the old one about the dialogue that's crucial to us. They only have one or two sentences, and that should, in our view, be the essence of this resolution, to continue dialogue, because when they talk then, except for those who deliberately want to challenge, to say, riot, because it is not that they care about Serbs or Kosovo, they shoot their vest, but they want to stop Serbia's European path. We've come to the attack of KFOR. People, so KFOR is a security guarantee under Resolution 1244 on the entire territory of Kosovo. Then why don't you say what Serbs in Kosovo South of Ibra think of KFOR? Let's remember March 17th, 2004. Why don't we tell people how many people got killed then? Twenty-three or twenty-four. What is the national composition of these people who have been killed? He's 20 Albanians. And who were they killed by? Two-thirds of US KFOR, Caglavica and Laplem Village. Then when they also came out of their area of responsibility and came into another zone, they would also act to prevent the cleaning of enclaves. Maybe that's when they broke somebody's business. It may have taken for Kosovo to divide the Serbs south of Ibra. Maybe it was some kind of, I don't know, I don't want to speculate. In any case, Serbs south of Ibra have confidence in KFOR, and KFOR has a mandate on the entire territory of Kosovo to maintain peace, stability, security and transit. I hope nothing happens today or tomorrow and that it will rule wisely. So I urge us to return to what began in September of last year, to return to dialogue, to reach some sort of agreement. If this stamp is a problem now, then there are some issues that can be solved. If someone cheated on someone, promised, if there was a compromise, then they gave up, then you, Mr. Stefanovic, will have to take that responsibility, I'm sorry. But in any case, we appeal to dialogue, if there was an annulment of military neutrality here, we could vote. The point is, as we speak, if you had talked and come to Brussels, this wouldn't have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59092	The People's MP Milos Aligrudic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59093	So, I would never replicate because of the different political visions of things, it's the subject of discussion, as already prescribed, but because of insult and disdain. So it's just amazing that even the chairman didn't react at that point, because this discussion today is a very serious discussion and aims to reach an agreement on an important matter. We contribute to this agreement from the DSS by proposing one text of the declaration, completely independent of the text that is before us today, with the aim of serving as a basis for a dialogue during the day at the session of the KIM Committee to sort of come up with some solution that would be useful for all of us. It should be kept in mind that there are suggestions here, as well as political qualifications, but don't insult them. What is this way of saying that the previous government tried to burn the Jarins, you can see it from a stenogram, and say that the previous government burned the embassies? In that previous government, they sat: DSS, DS and G17 plus. The government before the government also supported it as a political party outside the government. So, you have accused these political parties, although I know that you were primarily referring to the DSS and its President Vojislav Kostunica, and that is also the basis for the replica, that we have done these things, without even one single piece of evidence for such a thing. It's just amazing. To be your argument in the discussion, that kind of political disqualification? It's really something amazing. To use this session in today's day to say something like that? You know, if you're not feeling well, the rest of us are.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59094	National MP Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59095	Dear People's MPs, President of the Republic and members of the Government, allow me to set out at the beginning of my presentation the objectives and purpose of this session of parliament today, as seen by the DSS and the DSS Parliament Club. First of all, it is necessary to describe and evaluate these events at KIM in the last nine days. Secondly, it is necessary to look for and expose the causes of these events. Third, this assembly should present policy formulation guidelines that would meet these challenges facing the state. Fourthly, a document should finally be drawn up that will clearly put out a compromise position, which is the DSS objective, on all these issues. When it comes to the first thing, therefore, to the description and assessment of the situation, I think at least by what was exposed by the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister, we have no differences, no fundamental differences, that's what this is about. It is certain that the cause of all these events is the unilateral and violent functioning of Albanians on KIM and their institutions. So that's one reason, and I wouldn't talk about it any further, I agree with what's been said. The second reason is the contradictory and truly strange functioning of the International Community mission to the KIM. I think we agree here, too, listening to what the government's predecessors said, and reading this proposal for a declaration that the government has made. About the other thing, the problem is next. So we need to figure out the causes of all these events, to get to one policy that would finally express some kind of minimum compromise in this assembly. Namely, it is a difficult undertaking, and I'm going to say a few sentences in order to understand that problem. First, the main cause of this is the expansionist policies of Albanians in KIM and the region, which lasts for decades and lately particularly intensely. I must say immediately that Kosovo is not enough for them either as a message to those who advocate to divide Kosovo. It's an old problem that our predecessors have faced, not just over the last decade, but more than a century. So one big cause and one big problem. The second cause of this situation is the fact that major Western forces, the United States, NATO alliances and large EU member states and the largest number of EU member states support this policy of Albanians in KIM and beyond. That is, therefore, one problem that we are constantly facing, which we have not uniquely accepted and reflected as the cause of these events. That support, in recent years, for at least 12 years, since 1998, has been quite evident. The third cause is in the wrong policy of the government, which has chosen for its allies in the fight for territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia precisely these world powers that are the most helpful for the Albanian expesionist policy in the region. So there are some problems and attitudes of the government that we deeply disagree with, and today we don't have much to talk about, but we have to put some indication of it on account of public opinion and this assembly. Namely, this problem dates back to three years ago, but it seems to me to be in the strongest sight in the last year, practically from accepting the General Assembly Resolution that replaced the real functioning of Resolution 1244 and the dialogue that is being conducted between Belgrade and Pristina. We need to evaluate this dialogue. There's a part of the problem we're facing today, and that's why we have to evaluate it. So, if we only take into account the results of that dialogue so far, and we have three points where the agreement was reached, so that's freedom of movement, recognition of diplomas and recognition of the parent books of each other, we'll see and the diplomas are, they're not finished but you have a basis for, but it doesn't matter. I'm sorry, I reacted to Mr. Borko Stefanovic's gesture, I shouldn't have. So if we accept what has been accepted as an agreement, we will see that in this dialogue the situation has changed to Serbia and to the harm of Serbs, it is worse than it was before the dialogue took place and before the conclusions on this matter were established. In short, the conclusion is next. The result of freedom of movement is this -- all Albanians with KIM who do not recognise Serbia as a state and who have the documents of this illegal state will be able to move freely across Serbia. On the other hand, all Serbs to KIM who recognise Serbia as their country and who have Serbian documents will not be able to move with these documents throughout KIM. At the very least, one terrible indiscretion. You see, Albanians have seduced the regime at the border or tried to do it by taking reciprocity as an argument, because Serbia does not recognise Kosovo's customs stamp as an independent state, and then they create an embargo on the border. When we look at the parent books, Serbia accepts that Kosovo's parent books are taken as a relevant document for certain operations, and finally with diplomas, perhaps, at first sight and worst, we will recognise the diplomas issued by the University of Pristina with a header that says Kosovo is a republic, etc. So we have that one bad result. However, the problem that has arisen for the last nine days and which is the cause of this whole debate is not these conclusions, because the government has accepted them, however much the opposition has criticised them. We also had an opportunity on the Kosovo Committee and in public to talk, and you know it all. The detonator of all of these events was a customs seal. Our side did not accept the customs stamp or the July 21st talks because it was put before Robert Cooper's ultimatum to accept it. She managed to postpone that solution for the beginning of September, to which the Albanian side reacted to unilateral and violent activities and the matter was sharpened in the way we know and talk about, which is the reason for all of this. There's a big problem. From step to step in the dialogue, Serbia recognises KIM. It's phase, it's slow, but it's fact-finding and it's very thorough. At the end of the dialogue, independent Kosovo from Serbia's point of view will fall as a mature pear in early September of this year and we will get those conditions for candidacy. What's happened in the last few days has shown all the dramatics of a scenario like this. We do not have to talk about this dramaticness, because we agree on this, the Prime Minister and Mr Stefanovic have also used the word in their report in their oral presentation. We agree on that, but can we draw lessons and consequences, that's the issue of this assembly, and that's the question of a possible compromise that we're going to make. What do we do? How do you draw from the assessment of these causes some common policy elements that the state should continue to lead? We cannot influence Albanians, it is quite clear, they will continue to do what they are doing and it is simply one constant in their policy and in our facing their strategy. We cannot change the position of Western countries, it is as strong a constant as the Albanian position. They decided that Kosovo would be independent, they decided that Serbia would have to recognise Kosovo if it played a voluntary game and now it's about Serbia actually doing it. We can't change that pressure, that's quite clear. What we can change is our policy. It's in the disposition of our maneuvering space, we can do that if we want to. Now we come to the main question, so to speak, these sessions of ours. The main question is whether it is possible for this assembly to create one compromise document, a document that will respect one, the other, third views, but above all the fact that this whole process in which the Serbian government participated in one benevolent way has fallen into an impasse. It's hard for you to get back to the state before July 21st this year. KFOR has shown its true face. We could've suspected it, but unfortunately it happened. He is therefore a formation under Resolution 1244, but it did not bother him to support the actions of Albanians in one perhaps not so visible way for our audience, but I am quite certain for the people who were there on behalf of the state is quite clear. KFOR discussed and annulled the deal three times after agreeing with our representatives and then brought Albanian border police and customs officers on the administrative line with helicopters. Is it possible to trust KFOR, is it possible to build trust, which is one quite positive attitude in principle, if we have such experience? Eulex has retired, so he hasn't responded in two days. Finally, today we read a statement by Chief Eulex that Eulex believes that he respects the Constitution and the laws of Kosovo and that Eulex will do what is necessary to establish a comprehensive customs territory or a comprehensive customs regime on KIM territory. What a black status neutrality KFOR. Please, I don't know what we're talking about. I'm sure you know this as well as I do. We just don't agree on how to react to those facts. Your attitude is to push as we have begun, even if we recognise Kosovo, perhaps not verbally, but in any case in fact. Because of the candidacy, not because of EU accession, but because of the relatively low price. Our position is that politics must change and that this is the last hour to do so. That's why we offer that hand of compromise. Now I'm going to be very specific about the document itself. We have a basic document, it's a proposal for a government declaration, and we have a number of amendments of opposition parties in this parliament and parties in the government's majority. I cannot speak on behalf of the amendments made by other parties, I can only talk about the proposed Declaration and the text proposed by the DSS. You see, if we take this first text of the Declaration, there are many problems, the smallest and perhaps technical ones that there are very many, it is very amateurally engaged. There are errors, failures, copying some declarations of pre-independence Kosovo. Take the second and third positions of the preamble. Read everything carefully and there's everything, but it doesn't matter. It's easy to iron. You had fast speed, you had to organize this congregation in a short time. Let's get you organized, so we have a chance to talk about it. What's the problem with this declaration is its political status quo. It doesn't really change anything in government policy, and right now, I've described the situation to simply explain that something has to be done, that something has to change. She doesn't change anything. This can only be explained very easily if you read two positions within point 5.b) and v. Stav b) says -- the best way to find a compromise solution, in line with the principle of international law, is dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, with the intervention of the status of neutral mediators entrusted with the UN's mandate. See, that's the story that lost the game, so to speak. We talked about it a lot earlier, but it doesn't matter now. It's important that we do what we can now. If we agree that the problem of dialogue itself is now, that he can no longer give the result, because things have changed terribly on the ground, and with the support of both Eulex and KejFOR, then I think we either capitulate, we either have to capitulate, as a state, or change something in politics. So I simply urge this declaration to be completed, to be amended, to be amended to the extent that it would show that step forward. When it comes to our amendment, he has about five points. If you read it, you could see it. These points are, in fact, those moments that should be woven into the Declaration, which in one sufficient way, would be necessary and sufficient, inhaled that text and made it operational, from the point of view of the need for policy to change. The text therefore requires that negotiations be opened on all open issues. You see, dialogue and negotiations are something else. You spoke for yourself – negotiations in these matters of dialogue, and in fact you are now using a good term – dialogue, as ordered by the Resolution of the General Assembly. Negotiations on basic issues covered by the UN and the UN Security Council are clear. The second view is to respect all resolutions adopted between 2005 and 2007. A year. It is contained in the first indent of your preamble and if there are additions to the December 2007 Resolution, it is fully fulfilled. The third view is that the state, of course, can gradually do nothing overnight for those actors in the international community who can expect real support for their policy of maintaining sovereignty and territorial integrity. There is then one position on stronger engagement of international organisations, which the government is already doing and, finally, a general view of the compromise. You see, there's enough stuff, how can I say different, to be identified as different, but maybe not enough that you couldn't make a compromise proposal. Namely, is a compromise possible? That's the main question now? Look, he's possible if by compromise we move things forward, if we change what is wrong and we add what would be an active government policy in this matter. Our problem with this declaration is that it retains the status quo and, therefore, is reactive. The government reacts to what happens all the time, has no initiative. That is, therefore, a basic proposal. Then a compromise is possible. Of course, to be realistic, there are many political interests in this country, in the ruling majority, which are particularly against this approach. Let's put them aside for now. There seems to be another more principled problem. In this country, there is a fear of reacting to Western forces if Serbia at least moves to the left or right of what it has done so far. That fear is unfounded. Namely, why would Western forces impose sanctions and punish Serbia for what it is now doing in favour of its sovereignty and territorial integrity, democratic methods, in one regime, in one order that has all the features of democracy? There's nothing to be afraid of. If Western forces were to resort to an irrational act, we must bear in mind that the world is not what it was in the 1990s. He's completely different. Therefore, at the very least, someone, as I say, would be found to be freezing existing conditions, in order to move forward one day in what is most important to us, and these are negotiations on basic issues, as I said. Finally, we would have to show that we react differently to this thing than it was in the 1990s. When Serbia, as a state, has failed to establish a compromise and consensus within the Assembly or within its political body regarding KIM, we must show it today because such an opportunity and such a temptation is today. Last sentence, after the time has come to an end, I would ask the President of Parliament to take some time to consult on these proposals that we have made, therefore, not only the DSS, there are amendments and others, to separate ourselves, to see if we can make this compromise that I was talking about, that eventually, if we get lucky, it goes to the KIM Committee and then continue this debate afterwards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59096	Thank you. You've been involved in the arrangements where the heads of the parliamentary groups were and we've agreed on a method of negotiation, certainly with the idea of it being constructive, the way I assume you want it to be. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard here today a description of the situation, the journalistic chronology of events, the appeal to the Albanians, the calls to the Serbs. While I was listening to the Prime Minister, I thought I was listening to Ban Kimun. Today, as representatives, we are the holders of constitutional and legislative authorities whom you have not addressed so far in the conduct of the affairs that are under the Constitution under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in determining and running politics. You didn't report here today that we would vote on, so we confirmed it or rejected it. Today you are asking us here, even one speaker of yours has spoken with fire – the people expect what the congregation will decide today. Excuse me, don't transfer us if that decision isn't good. It was your call. You've been running politics. You've always thought about what the EU thinks about one of your moves, which is good, but you've never made the EU think about what we might want. The National Assembly cannot be a hostage to government policy. Today, the eyes of Serbs from the north of KIM cannot be against the congregation. We could have met at 1400 hours and voted without debate. What would that change, what, in this declaration? It is the lowest possible act that the National Assembly brings. What's in it telling you something's gonna change? Where did you find a foothold for it to be today or not to be? Do not let us, MPs, feel like those who participated in slave rebellions, e.g. those Spartacus, 73 BC. You mean, we beat the Empire, we beat them all, and in the end, it all gets divorced like a soap bubble. It's not time for big speeches and it's not time for party points, it's time for Serbia to finally think about where, what, how to go on. It's about two crossings, there's more. Well, in the white country, Albanians already control the crossing and make customs. You don't mention that. You challenge conflicts between Serbs living in the north of KiM and those who do not live there, who would like to see these in the north be all the same as them, for who are they to be better? When you didn't fight for us, why are you fighting for these in the north of KIM? You accuse the Serbs of being vandals that set the crossing on fire. You spent a few days down there, the minister seems to feel more like a man from Belgrade, not like a man with a kim. I understand these people. Cold heads aren't thinking down there. Maybe the cold heads of the people in Knin were thinking about when Croatia left, and they killed their heads. The rest of us have nothing and today they don't have a house or a property. Whoever lives there doesn't have a cold head. The state should have a cold head for him. Where was the state then? What did the state do? You've been putting our trust in KFOR for three days, just waiting for KFOR. It's just a general waiting to decide that Serbs live peacefully, and then from the fourth day, it's just waiting for Eulex. KFOR is no longer the one we believe in. There was no time, because when the Albanians failed to take over the crossings themselves they sent KFOR to provide them with crossings, the Albanians will arrive and you know it well. It cannot declare Serbia will not war to ensure peace in northern Kosovo. He can make a statement – Serbia does not want war, as he does not want war, and who wants God to war in his head, but if the Supreme Commander says – Serbia will not fight if the police director says – Serbia cannot cross what you call – an administrative transition, who will protect the people there? If here in this declaration you are openly telling us that the operation of all international institutions on KIM is against Serbs, what should the people do there? To wait for you to spit on him for setting the transition on fire. If the people did so at all spontaneously, if not many took part in the organisation of it, so as to have what the Serbian people should be accused of. You haven't convinced me by now that you've done everything you can. You were doing everything you thought you could. Albanians go further than you think they can go, and they'll always go on and beat us in that diplomatic fight of yours, because you're fighting amongst yourselves. You're even looking at who's gonna be in charge of what function if there's a world miracle that after the new elections, you'll stay in power. You submit October and the opinion of the European Commission to Serbia. Serbia's life is largely today and depends on what both the European Commission and the EU Council will say. Where's your regular man? You've had several tasks from the EU, difficult and easier. It was easier for those you failed to meet, to arrange for the country, to fight bribery, corruption and crime, to reform the judiciary, to ensure the safety of foreign investors, to develop slowly the state, its institutions, to adopt European legislation, to implement it, and to be prepared to when Serbia enters the EU to make it work. The more difficult tasks were the arrest of Hague indictees. It weighs for every authority in Serbia. Very risky, and you've filled them out. It was a difficult task to take care of KIM. Here's where we are. We have come to the conclusion that the EU will say – so it is, but you have not implemented a reform of the judiciary. I don't know what you're going out with in front of Serbian citizens and the EU. What can be seen in the means of information we've been beyond in the '90s when some other government has kept the media under its control. It only irritates the citizens and only scares us of what you're prepared to do to preserve your image, your reputation. There's no question at all whether we're going to support the measures you're proposing for KIM, but just tell me the measures. The declaration, so your MPs themselves, have made amendments to that declaration. Since that, the KIM declaration, the parliamentary majority has been giving amendments to its government. And what you are giving amendments to a declaration proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia that determines and leads politics. You want the Assembly to establish and run politics, so I guess we split it with the Constitution. There's no place for the President of the Republic either, he's just a country abroad, but it's all mixed up here. Prime Minister Cvetkovic submits a report on Kosovo and Metohija to us, the question is whether he knows how many kilometers to Raska. Serbian Prime Minister gave a speech for four minutes. Excuse me, after the Prime Minister, the ministers have nothing to talk about. After the Prime Minister is not discussed, members of the government are not discussing, because he needs to say everything, collect reports from everyone, sort out and tell us what's going on and what's going to happen. Because I don't understand, so I'd like the writers to explain to me what they thought when they said, "in view of the real danger of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, which stems from the threat of unilateral declaration of Kosovo independence". This was a copy of the box from a declaration five, six years ago, my dear Vlado. As well as a statement by some states that they will recognise Kosovo's unilateral independence. How many states have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence? So you say, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia determines that such an operation of international missions constitutes a harsh violation of international law by such acts and activities would be directly endangered sovereignty." I guess Serbia's sovereignty and survival are at stake, and they wouldn't be. Well, if you say so, they'll be threatened, but you say so. Well, they would be, if they were misbehaving, but if they behave badly, they'd be threatened or threatened. Now I'm really interested, do you play war trumpets or not? Please explain to me what it means, so that I know that when I go among the citizens of Serbia, these two positions D and D, in which you say, "the government of the Republic of Serbia is particularly obliged, that in all circumstances which could be effective, it acts on the protection of life and property, rights and freedom of the citizens of the province." I am really asking for an explanation from the Prime Minister that it is effective to protect life and property, the rights and freedoms of the province's citizens, and what is this "especially for the Serbian and not the Albanian population"? The Albanians also live in Kosovo, Mitrovica. What are we not going to protect them now? Let them be threatened. "The government of the Republic of Serbia undertakes to adopt a concrete and comprehensive plan of measures to be taken in all areas of its competence in the event of a deterioration in the situation in Kosovo and Metohija." That's what the government does under the Constitution. Who are we to commit to the government to bring in a plan of measures, which you did not write that this plan measures the delivery of to the Assembly for adoption. The government is bound to make a plan of action, and what if it doesn't? You want to vote to replace the government. Not today you're washing your mouth, and tomorrow you're going on vacation. You've done your job, adopted the Declaration, and you're going on vacation. The government remains to make a plan of action. It was never a problem for the National Assembly to approve a plan for measures of declaration, resolution, anything concerning Kosovo and Metohija. There are those who are against it, but they are also ashamed, but what will happen tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. What happens when the Albanians come to those crossings, administrative ones, I say to the border, that's the limit for them. It seems to me that Eulex is already making a statement that it must carry out the mandate of civil temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. Check that out? What's it gonna be? Shall we take an ash bath here? Do we have an ally? What about the Serbian people and those non-Albanians, what do you call them? Where are you going to stay? Have you prepared your homes? Guys, the situation is very serious. I don't think we should argue about that at all. I'm just looking, let's see what you don't want to see. To read what you didn't want to write. It's up to you. There remains that sin for KIM. That's what you're wearing. I don't know if analysts may have fooled you when they're doing this public opinion research, so they say -- Kosovo is the tenth place each citizen in Serbia. More important to him is unemployment, the fight against crime, and the EU is, but each man has a single Kosovo in first place. When someone tells you nothing can be done, let them say it as an official face. Not as a neighbor, not as a godfather, a friend of mine. Let him say it like a man with full responsibility. I understand you all very well, but it's not nice, it's not right that 250 of us take responsibility for what the Government and the President of the Republic are doing. It's not our job. The citizens of Serbia expect to see how much taxes they will be, they expect what laws we will pass. They do not expect this congregation unless, in accordance with the Constitution, someone suggests we declare an emergency or a war. Then the Assembly has the right and the duty and the obligation to decide on it. In such cases, it takes years to transfer the ball to the Assembly. We will vote 200 of this declaration. What happens tomorrow? What are the police gonna do? What's the army gonna do? What's the shuttle diplomacy gonna do? To run in front of the closed door. You're wasting gas. It's oil, actually. The kerosene is oil. Let's talk seriously as people. Are we ready to watch everything collapse and just yell at us as patriots? It's nice living in Belgrade. It's hard to live on KIM. Always keep that in mind. Serbia should not be a slave to a difficult life at KIM. But if the Constitution says he should be a slave, then he will be. And the slaves rose to the uprising, aware that they were going to the Empire, but when they broke up, then they no longer thought about it. You all have children and grandchildren. Think about other people's children and other people's grandchildren. Those who don't sleep tonight. Yeah, well, if we're taking care of them today, let's just let's be honest and honest, not with the newspaper reading during the Socialist gentlemen's session. It doesn't make sense. The Serbian newspaper didn't even get there. Albanians from Switzerland move to two crossings in southern Serbia, head to KIM. They're coming back. They heal, they trade, they eat, they sleep, they drink. Serbs who are sentenced to two crossings in the north are neither treated, nor eaten, nor slept, nor drank. Don't tell us that. Make sure they're being treated. Make sure they eat and drink. Make sure they cross the border, administrative crossing. Let them kill us. Let's go to Brnjak to meet the National Assembly at the crossing. Let's get killed by KFOR. Let's be those vandals who took the pass. You have the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group at your disposal. Just tell us what you're gonna do. If you've ever made that decision at all, even though anyone has ever asked you what you need to do. Don't let some say that everything is lost, the other is all ours, the third is that Kosovo should be shared between Albania and Serbia. Let's hear what you want to do, what should we represent or what to attack? As humans, we cannot attack you in this assembly. None of you are individually to blame for what's going on, and as politicians, I'd like to know what we need to support you. What responsibility do you want to take by voting this declaration? What you don't write within a month we'll do that and that, within two months, that and that. We vote, we finish, if you do, you get the election, and if you don't... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59098	Will you do it again? You've got a minute. Sorry, it's a mistake. I have the impression you've brought an end to it. Mr. Stefanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59099	First of all, there are a few things I have to react to here. It seems to me, there's been a lot of untrues and flat-rate conclusions that are absolutely unfounded, and now we've heard one express dose of demagogy again. Let's just say, first of all, that if all the MPs here were listening to what the government said, you could hear that, since there was criticism as to why it wasn't being negotiated, there was criticism as to why it was being negotiated. So it is necessary to hold a dialogue with Pristina, but dialogue cannot be conducted in conditions when we are one-sidedly changed on the ground. Therefore, it is not our side in any way avoided dialogue, nor will we try to avoid dialogue on our part, nor have we escaped from solving the problem of the customs seal. The customs stamp and the problem of the customs stamp is not a problem of control on the administrative line. That's two separate things, gentlemen. Now I'm sorry that the honourable MP who, of course, said it as he used to, came out of here. This is what he did last time we were here. It's just that there's no such thing as a thesis, and I'm sorry that Professor... Samardzic reiterates that through this process we recognise Kosovo through a phase approach. That's one very, I'd say, bold finding that has no argument whatsoever. I'd like to hear about why we recognise Kosovo. When you say the criticisms of the solutions that have been made, we don't hear what's wrong with those solutions, except what you think is wrong. These are naked claims, Professor, you know very well how to build an argument. I don't need to teach you that. What's a fact is that no one here competed in patriotism, there was no transfer or push to the chest, but there was a real representation of the situation as it is. So, Mr. Ostović, the dialogue has been postponed at the initiative of Mr. Cooper's MPs, not our insistence. I tell you again what I said, we don't run away from dialogue, we want it. He's the only way to solve all these problems. As the only way to solve the problem, which currently exists worse, is to avoid violence, in every way possible. What's the fact that we don't need it now, I think, is that we're going to get caught up in the situation whether someone after this turns out to be neutral or not, but we're going to try to solve this burning problem. How do we save him? It was very clear and decadent that government representatives here presented to the MPs. So I can't see, I don't see any secrecy in what you're going to do. You heard what we're gonna do. If it's no good in what we're gonna do, tell me what we're supposed to do. Here's what your proposal is, except we go to the Brnjak all together, like you said. We weren't just doing what we were supposed to do. It's better to do what you should have done than to do nothing. So, doing what you're supposed to do is also a very brave finding on your part. You should see these circumstances and see. You know what, maybe we can do more than you, and maybe you can do more than us. That won't solve this problem. You don't have to judge how many ministers speak after the Prime Minister. I know you're practicing for that function, but you're not gonna make it. You know, you should practice now. (President: Replica. One more thing, I'm done. (President: I'm sorry. I think it's a very bad situation if you say so, and if I understand you, but because of the citizens. It's very harmful when you say it's a limit. You know, we're not talking about -- the administrative line, because we love this termological situation, but because it's an administrative line. If we let this happen, it'll become what you said it was, and that's the limit. I hope you were wrong and it was a lapus and you don't think that's the limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59100	Mr. Samardzic, replica. Excuse me, Mr Samardzic, before I give you my word, only notice that the 33rd session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija is held at 17:30 p.m. in Hall II.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59101	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, I will tell you something you probably don't know, one example, from 1992, when a delegation educated by the Government of Milan Panic, therefore, that government that tried to act differently than Milosevic, was a federal government, held negotiations with representatives of Kosovo Albanians for a year on the problem of education. After a year when they were given every concession, Ambassador Rafe intervened German, when they were given every concession on the funding programme, the full autonomy of education as if it were another state. The thing fell on the seal of a diploma. If you have the patience to listen to me. The Albanians asked for the seal of the diploma to be the Republic of Kosovo, the government of Mr Panic, i.e. A task force that was a very competent professor. Ivan Ilic led the group, she did not accept it. In fact, she could accept and solve the problem of education, but it is not because Kosovo's republic means the recognition of another state. I mean, you don't first meet a question like that, it's a long time ago, you might not even know it. But that's just how it was, and that's how different governments worked. Panic and Milosevic are the sky and the earth. Kostunica and Milosevic, Kostunica and Panic, Djindjic, are all different people, but these are the things where they all did the same. Only your government reacts differently, accepts, therefore, the documents of an illegally detached state, that's the secession that is a violation of international law, no matter what this international court of justice has said. He said he wasn't in dissent, he didn't say he was in agreement with state rights, look at that little difference. So that's what you do first in the history of this country. You accept these documents, as documents, and you can't do that. So that's the difference and the problem we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59102	Time. National MP Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59103	Thank you, President, Mr Stefanovic, I know that Mr Cooper has postponed, but President Tadic said that there was an impression in international circles that we are the culprits, so why Mr Cooper delayed, whether there was an agreement before on the seal, and then that agreement was withdrawn, which I asked you, and that was formally delayed by Mr Cooper, and I know that. As far as peace goes, I know it seems like everything to calm this situation down, so no one else dies, and it would be a disaster. But, you know what, the Serbs went bad when they used balvanas on the roads. When we add it all together, the bogeyman on the road goes like an S.A.O., and the S.A.O.O. goes to smuggling, smuggling goes with crimes, crimes come to some Hadzic, etc. And what happens after that, not to mention now some experience, from other countries, where the boulders are, as it was called, to encourage people to endure being aware that KFOR has the authority to carry out, to say, to normalise traffic, not to sound cynical, and it objectively pumps people, to pump their emotions that it will achieve something, and in the end, I'm sure it's hard to get back the situation from before July 25th, but there's also one negative consequence. If it is transferred south of Serbia, or south of Ibra, to enclaves, these people will be threatened, those who live there, in that sense I have spoken and therefore the situation needs to be calmed down. I didn't get the impression, how can I say, encouraging people to keep mentioning the name and so on and it's not in the function of calming down, that's what it looks like to me. All right, I'd like you to succeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59104	Right on line, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59105	First of all, I don't think the guest gentleman at this session should be engaged in a debate with the MPs and should not be allowed to do so, and since it is subject to the rules as for all participants, and not as for the members of the government, I ask you to make sure that you safeguard our dignity. When you talk about the border, I saw on my case that it was an administrative crossing for you. You, gentlemen of the Serbian government, have prevented me from attending his sanctity as the patriarch of Serbian Mr Irine, since I was not on the list of Serbian citizens who could cross the Jarinje border crossing that day, following the approval of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. A Polish woman said, Mr. Nikolic, the RS government did not approve today that you enter the KIM territory of that administrative crossing. Next, under Article 124. The Constitution, the Government is responsible to the Assembly for what it does, not the Parliament of the Government, so when you ask us to tell you what we would do, to remind you of a people's saying, when you make a child, you do not call Jephthah, and after the rocking of the Jephthah child. This is what you've cooked and mixed up, and this is what you'll have to do, and I really wish you'd earned a round of applause from the MPs by having successfully negotiated, not by campaigning the day we're discussing KIM. You know who's going to win and who's going to be Prime Minister. In a month, Serbia's largest politician will become the largest politician to determine what will happen in Serbia. Look, you've landed high, I even think that, as for Mr. Jeremic, it's very dangerous in your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59106	Mr. Nikolic, you were in a meeting with the heads of parliament groups and I agreed with the heads of parliament that Mr. Stefanovic could have an absolute right to speak, and this stems from the fact that whoever is with the Serbs at KIM has the right here to talk about this guy's problems. The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59107	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected members of the government, the President of the Republic, exactly one year has passed since the last assembly debate on KIM, and then on the agenda was the opinion of the International Court of Justice which, regardless of language and legal acrobatics, was unfavourable for Serbia, because most judges have declared that the declaration of Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence is not contrary to international law. On that occasion, we gave both authority and support to the government to submit a resolution to the UN General Assembly, to make all political diplomatic efforts to have the resolution adopted. The resolution was adopted, but not in the form in which it was submitted, and the good thing is that it was voted by all 27 EU member states. Based on the resolution, both Belgrade and Pristina have pledged to launch a dialogue on technical issues. Today the dialogue is interrupted and today we need to adopt a new assembly declaration with the full name of the current state of play in KIM and after unilateral acts by temporary self-government institutions in Pristina. What was happening at KIM and what was still happening, we heard from the government's representatives and I have no right to challenge a single word in that report, because I was neither a participant nor an observer on the scene, but I was in Belgrade all the time, being informed through the media, through the social network, through contacts I have with people living in all of Kosovo about what's going on down there. Because I'm saying this, I'll tell you. For two reasons. First, because I believe that rarely any of these people here have gone north to Kosovo and visited the people at barricades. Secondly, I would also like to thank Borko Stefanovic and Minister Goran Bogdanovic for not honoring the time at the first sign of the crisis packed up and went north to Kosovo. That's how it's done, and that's why they have the right to report today and tell us what's really going on down there, what's going to happen, and as soon as this session is over, they're going back. With this move, by sending its two high-ranking officials, the Serbian government has made it clear that all, including the most complex and most sensitive issues and situations, are resolved by peaceful and diplomatic means. Speaking of which, I would also like to thank Minister Vuk Jeremic for his unselfish efforts to reach the UN Security Council and try to expose the problem that not only Serbia and KIM have found, but also the entire region, and to represent Serbia's views before that body, regardless of the opposition of some permanent members of the Security Council. How and why is it that Pristina first introduces a blockade on goods from Serbia, and that it is encouraged by a small reaction from the International Community to such a move, which is contrary not only to the CEFTA Agreement, but also to the logic of the free movement of goods, people and capital, that it goes further and by sending special forces, it tries to take over administrative crossings and practically possesss the entire north of Kosovo? The answer to this question, as well as many others that come from it, will certainly be obtained within the next few days, because we all know that authorities in Pristina have never taken any radical moves without even the tacit consent of their sponsors and mentors. The European Union, that is to say, did not look with approval at such a move, stressing that this was not done with consultations with Brussels. D.C. tells us the same thing. On the other hand, I fell for French Ambassador to Kosovo Jean-Francoe Fito's statement, which said the Kosovo government has thus taken control of northern Kosovo, which it has the right to do. A similar statement was made by Andy Megafi, head of the International and Civilian Office. The only logical explanation of such opposing statements lies in the fact that there is no single position within the EU towards Kosovo, and that will remain as long as there are member states that have not recognised the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, which is, we should remind ourselves, every time we talk about the EU, Greece, Cyprus, Slovakia, Romania and Spain. Another explanation could be that the EU's official position to support dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina and that special envoy Catherine Ashton, Robert Cooper, who is the mediator in the dialogue, arrives in Belgrade in a few days. It's been 12 years since NATO and the UN put KIM under their control. During that time, they failed to create from Kosovo a multiethnic society or establish a rule of law. A majority population living down there who has taught generations to see a blood enemy in Serbian authorities and to view Serbs as a foreign element that should be evicted as soon as the possibility appears. It is similar with the attitude of Serbs in KIM towards Albanians. Clearly, the model of cohabitation here is not applicable in the immediate future. It is clear that, apart from requests for symbolic sovereignty, we must also pave the way for new solutions. No good solutions for KIM, they're spent, they're only bad, and we should try to find the least bad. This is not what I said. This is what I quoted by Zoran Djindjic in 2001. But nothing has changed since then. The best solutions were until 1999, since then, everyone, in their own way, is trying to find the least bad solution. I didn't get the impression today by listening to the debate, and I hope that the further course of the debate will depose me, that we are ready to launch one responsible political debate, that, apart from liquefying, justifying, looking for a guilty person and thinking, we don't really have a God-knows-what to say. We can hardly get out of our party trenches, and we can hardly offer anything to Serbs in Kosovo, except for passwords and various political views. I wonder if we can learn anything from the Kosovo Assembly, which is unanimous a few days ago, except for Serbs who boycotted the session and the vote, but all others have given support to the Kosovo government to establish control in the north because they consider it a question of the highest national interest, so is it the same for all of us here to defend the north of Kosovo? I'm not sure, frankly. For some in Serbia, Serbs from northern Kosovo are either a burden or a burden or a major source of manipulation, so they too revolve in a vicious circle of political games by almost all political parties from Belgrade. The position of the RS is that dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina must continue, however far this moment, as we speak here today, seems. We are not to blame for the interruption of dialogue, because dialogue is in our interest both in the interests of Serbs and Albanians from Kosovo. Yes, it is true, there are many opponents of dialogue in both Pristina and Belgrade, but also among Serbs in northern Kosovo. This is normal, because in this dialogue some will lose their privileges, and some political blindness and egoism prevent them from looking at the wider picture and looking at all of Serbia, not just one piece of its territory. Since even the most extreme members of the Serbian and Albanian people no longer believe or call for war, and those who still see it as far away from Kosovo, it is clear that the only dialogue opens the door to some solutions, not the best, as I have said, but certainly not the worst. There's something else I want to say for the end. How difficult it has been to support today, let alone love the EU, it is clear that, as we do not have the right to raise our hands and give up the diplomatic fight for KIM, we also do not have the right to give up our partnership and co-operation with the EU. Only by agreeing and partnership with the EU can we get results in favour of the interests of Serbs in KIM and Serbia as states and its European perspective.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59108	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Riza Halimi, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59109	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Injury of Article 104. A little while, Professor Samardzic mentioned 1993, Milan Panic, and an attempt to resolve the situation in Kosovo at the time with representatives of Albanians. He added that then the main problem was the seals of diplomacy and testimony. I would remind him, for the sake of precision, that the Assembly should be informed, that this issue is probably discussed in these details, and not only discussed, but the agreement was reached in 1996, along with the intervention of the Italian Catholic organisation. However, the agreement is not respected. You know well that even after that signed agreement, Albanians were still forced to stay in the basements, in private homes, they could not use school and university facilities and even the Albanian Institute building was usurped. We know well, but professional analysts are doing well, that from that period you have a decline in influence in Kosovo, as well as peace-doping lines and strengthening other positions, other orientations that have since passed down to known tragic events in 1999. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59110	Thank you. You have no word, Mr. Samardzic, this was just a comment, nothing vague, nothing offensive. Do any of the heads of parliament or representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's session of the National Assembly best portrays the people's – who doesn't pay on the bridge pay on the chalice, and all the costs are collected and much higher than that paid on the bridge. I would remind you of 2008 when also a number of MPs, 108 MPs asked the government of the Republic of Serbia to report on the ongoing talks on a political solution to the future KIM status. You, brutally trampling the Rules of Procedure, have refused. You found some wrinkles allegedly out of line with the Rules of Procedure and that there's no way to discuss it. We also made an almost identical request the other day, a report by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the current situation regarding these latest developments. Now you're not looking for reasons in the Rules of Procedure. It's true, we didn't even have enough signatures. It's true, but now you've asked the government to report on these latest developments. If you gentlemen had done it in 2008, perhaps today, perhaps, we wouldn't have discussed this topic. But in 2008, you consciously assumed responsibility to run a KIM policy. You suggested a declaration today. Why not the resolution? It's a much stronger document. The declaration doesn't mean much to you and your old manners again. You offered and told us – take it or leave it. You're looking for unity. I guess it's easier to achieve unity before you bring in a document, so let's exchange an opinion, give our proposals, and then come out uniquely to the Assembly, not to get into a situation where MPs of the ruling majority are submitting amendments. It's just amazing. I haven't experienced it in 20 years. You here absolutely execute the terror of the majority. If you like it, like it, if you don't like it, we'll make a decision for the most part. To be clear, the SRS will support this declaration, as it has always done when it comes to the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens. We will not allow the enemies of Serbia to take any kind of heat because of the division within the Serbian people. But all responsibility for everything that's been going on falls on you. Let's get back to that 2008 request. We warned you then because then the British Foreign Ministry Director John Sawyers made it clear that the contact group decided that Kosovo would become independent. What did you expect for this time? That they'll back down because they're your friends, because it's one of your basic pillars in politics? Not only did they not withdraw, but they moved on, slowly, step by step, and you did not schedule the session then because you were preparing the worst possible step – acceptance of the Eulex mission. It's the worst and scariest thing for Serbia. You came out of the UN framework and put Serbia's problems in the hands of the EU. By what logic? Are we an EU member? By what logic should the EU send a mission to Serbia, i.e. to KIM? What did Eulex come for? Because of Marty Ahtisaari's plan. The plan is completely clear, a plan that precisely defines the creation of an independent state of Kosovo. The mission should help establish all institutions of the future state of Kosovo. The plan has never been adopted, and today it is mentioned by KFOR and other international factors. They say, based on the Ahtisaari plan. Well, who accepted it, where was he accepted? Maybe it's too quiet from you, but he has absolutely no importance at all. You said Eulex was status neutral. Where did you find one proof so far that it was true? There's no evidence whatsoever. On the contrary, it is absolutely clear, especially from these recent events, that they are defined for an independent Kosovo and that they are doing everything to make it happen as soon as possible. The next step you took was a decision to allegedly address Kosovo's independence problem, i.e. after a self-proclaim at the International Court of Justice in The Hague. You know well that the SRS has warned you in time, the decision of the International Court of Justice can be broken into our heads because a very negative or unfavourable decision can be made per Serbia. You had to know that the majority of judges in the International Court of Justice are from countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence. Then how could you expect this court to pass any verdict that would go to Serbia? It's just a dilettante or someone who deliberately wants to go over facts that are quite different. The next step that was disastrous for Serbia was the problem of the UN resolution. I am pleased that some MPs of the ruling majority also point out that there were two versions of that resolution, one resolution of the government of the Republic of Serbia and another EU resolution. You remember that resolution, let me remind you. Serbia's resolution to enter the procedure was very clear. We requested further activities following the International Court of Justice's advisory opinion on whether Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence is in accordance with international law. If this resolution had entered the UN, most would have voted for our resolution and you all know it well. That's what the foreign minister knows. That is why the pressure has been put on Americans and the EU, because it is clear to them what a United Nations resolution would mean, where most states would say that Kosovo's unilateral declaration is not in line with the UN Charter and is not in line with international law. Admit here how many hours you have changed that resolution and sent this shameful text where you said that you welcome the EU's readiness to facilitate the process of dialogue between the sides, etc., etc., and that the EU will improve the lives of people at KIM. Well, what are you rebelling about now? What's Borko surprised, Ministers, Prime Minister, etc.? And behold, you have given them this in their hands, and you have given them salvation. Now for God's sake, you're surprised what's going on. You've been making these things go on like this on Kim the whole time. You have defined your path very simply - Europe has no alternative. If there is no alternative, then you must agree to everything that Europe requires of you. You've agreed to almost everything, almost everything. Everything the UN tribunal asked of you, you did. Six presidents of Serbian states, you handed over to The Hague tribunal, six. Something, I know you're confused, but write it down, so you'll count it, very simple. From Slobodan Milosevic, who you kidnapped, Biljana Plavsic, Milan Martic, Milan Milutinovic, Goran Hadzic and Radovan Karadzic. Six. You see, Nash, that you're confused, it's a good thing I'm opening your eyes, but okay, let's go back. (President: Please do not address the messengers, but to the House of the National Assembly. This is only in the context of education. Nothing more. You have delivered a complete military and police summit, believing that pressures on Serbia will weaken and that is why we will receive some concessions. The same day that you handed Goran Hadzic over, it was clear to you that there was nothing of it, absolutely nothing, even mentioning some new people you should hand over to The Hague tribunal. We warned you that the pressures for KIM independence would increase. There's no dilemma. I guess you can see for yourself, I don't need to convince you. Here, today's newspaper brings news that the "Korieres of Acts sera" shows a map of Serbia without Vojvodina. I guess they crossed out those Chank maps. That's a fact. Serbia without Vojvodina, and slowly prepares what is next, which is the autonomy of the Raska area. Just laugh, but slowly come to everything we warned you about and what's on the scene right now. What does the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic do at the time? Remember at that session after the International Court of Justice's decision in The Hague? He said, and I think it's correct, that he stands behind that policy and that he bears his responsibility. That policy is very simple. Boris Tadic has taken the turn and apologizes to everyone. He's absolutely apologizing to everyone. What about the Serbs, Mr. President? What have you done for the Serbs in Croatia, since you are a very frequent guest there? What about refugees from Croatia? What about the property of Serbs in Croatia? Mr. President, give us information on how the problem of Croatia and Serbia will be solved when it comes to borders? You know that very well. Let's hear on what principle will the problem of Charengrad be solved? Will the catastra, in principle, or as usual, be resolved in international law, which is the middle of a waterway? You know that Croatia cannot enter the EU unless there are solved problems, any problems with neighbouring countries. You, at this last meeting, say you will help Croatia join the EU. Tell us, is this problem solved and how can Serbia be sure that you have not already agreed to some concessions? What did you do when it came to criminals over the Serbian people? Yesterday, Jovan the savage returned to Sarajevo. Ejup Ganic was released, Naser Oric was released, Hasim Thaci was not even invited. Prime Minister, you're talking to him. You are talking to him, and he, in an objective report by Dick Marty, who has accepted the Council of Europe, is being placed as one of the main organisers of human organs trafficking. And you're negotiating with him. The next step is the procedure you entered, which is reportedly negotiations on technical issues. It's not! How about technical issues? You start with your tail to solve your problems. To be clear, we are for negotiations, we want to negotiate, but there is one thing we must first define - Serbia's status, or KIM, and that is not the problem. As part of the status that needs to be unequivocally confirmed, KiM is part of Serbia, to discuss the degree of KIM autonomy. What are you doing? You look at technical problems, technical issues, and you justify it with a better life for citizens, and you will solve all questions to status. Then the status will fall like a mature pear, and there won't be any need to talk about it. You're talking about technical issues today. Do you know how the goods go on KIM from Serbia? With a single customs statement, it's like he's going to another country. Do you know that one who loads goods in Serbia must come out within 72 hours, as if it goes for any other state, otherwise paying for a customs offence or committing a customs offence in Serbia? My people, is that normal? Why don't you bring it in for the ropes and the crows and the row? What difference does it make between Pristina... Okay, I know some people are very happy to expect it to be for Novi Sad, but these are indisputable facts. You yourself create an independent state of kiM and help to achieve it. Here was the question – what are the suggestions to fix? First, we suggest that you immediately request that EULEX be withdrawn and UNMIK assume the powers it has under Security Council Resolution 1244. We ask you to exclusively request that things take place in accordance with Resolution 1244. To remind you, says Resolution 1244, reaffirming the attachment of all Member States to sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and other countries of the region, as stated in the Helsinki document and Annex 2. To remind you, in Resolution 1244, it confirms that after the withdrawal of the agreed number of Yugoslav and Serbian military and police personnel will be allowed to return to KIM in order to carry out their duties, in accordance with Annex 2. Let me remind you, Annex 1 says - a safe and free return of all refugees and displaced persons and unlimited access to humanitarian organisations in Kosovo. How many refugees have returned, Mr. President, to KIM? How much? What's their safety? How's their safety? Why don't you solve it? Annex 2 – the established provisional administration for Kosovo, as part of an international civilian presence, under which the people of Kosovo will be able to enjoy essential autonomy within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which will be decided by the Security Council. After withdrawing the agreed number of Yugoslav and Serbian personnel will be allowed to return and perform the following functions: the link with the international civilian mission and international security presence... (President: Time. Finish your sentence. )......................................................................................................... Marking and cleaning minefields, maintaining presence at Serbian cultural heritage sites, maintaining presence at the main border crossings. Well, you return to one customs border crossing. You're in no condition to do that either.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59112	The line has Mr. Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59113	I listened carefully to Mr. Todorovic's presentation where he taught me that six presidents of the Serbian state were extradited to the casamat in The Hague. Did I understand you correctly, Mr. Todorovic? Mr. Todorovic, as usual, you are not telling the truth. It's delivered seven. You forgot Milan Babic. So once again, I'm saying that you're making a terrible mistake when you're going into discussion on that subject. Of the brilliant achievements of the six Serbian presidents, there is only one Serbian state called the Republic of Serbia. Republika Srpska is for your information autonomy within the framework of BiH and that is so. The second thing, of all these brilliant state moves by the extradition presidents, was not adopted, for example, a plan to turn the Republic of Serbia's Krajina into something that would have full monetary independence, which would have free trade without customs, so that it would have a coat of arms, flag, an anthem and police, which would have a demilitarized zone, and the Croatian Army could enter only at the invitation of President Krajina, one of the extradited. Since they didn't agree to it, then we had refugees. Your policy, which comes down to your programming assignments, the scepters across the Curse were giving these results. That's why it won't work. Negotiations have no alternative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59114	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Todorovic. This was the answer to some of your comments. The People's Messenger Balint Pastor has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59115	Dear President of the Republic, the Honorable President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess that I do not understand the purpose of this session today and what its intentions are. Of course, I don't think the National Assembly should be ambushed these days and on this subject, but I don't think this is a good way to do it. This way is not good because this will only lead to politics. It will lead to another declaration on Kosovo and Metohija. I am convinced that people in Kosovo and Metohija will have no practical benefit from this session of the National Assembly and this declaration today. I'm surprised none of the previous speakers said that a better way of doing this would be a session of the National Assembly closed to the public. I am convinced that a session of the National Assembly closed to the public should be held, to which the Government of the Republic of Serbia, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, of course, told us on the one hand what the real situation in Kosovo and Metohija is. On the other hand, let's hear what the government plans of the Republic of Serbia are and what measures we can expect. What happens if one thing happens in Kosovo and Metohija, what will be the response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What will be the response of the Serbian government when something else is done, what measures are planned. I do not think that this session today is simply similar for one such discussion for this reason, and I would argue that even the people of Kosovo and Metohija will not benefit much from this session today, and even the MPs will not know, and in this session because of the situation, they cannot know what the government's plans are, because these plans on these issues are not being announced anywhere in the public session of the parliament of the state. When we talk about this particular proposal, I will be based on the solutions set out in this proposal for the Declaration, and I would like to talk about the proposed text. I think this text is a list of beautiful wishes from 2005, 2006 and 2007. So we can read the formulations we read in the 2007 proposals. That this text does not provide answers to any important questions. This text does not give guidance to the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the one hand, and on the other hand, this text is not similar for MPs to learn what they can as representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the coming weeks, in the coming months to expect from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to KIM. I said earlier that I would base myself on this proposed text and let me quote some of the elements of this proposal and add some comments. As regards the preamble here, it is stated that the declaration departs from Resolution of 24 July 2007, 14 February 2007 and 21 November 2005. As far as SVM is concerned, we were always restrained when these proposals were on the agenda because these texts were not acceptable to us. They were not acceptable because they contained certain formulations that we believe are not in line with the modern dictionary of diplomacy, because they were putting into effect the interruption of diplomatic relations with certain countries of the world, because they declared Serbia's military neutrality which we think is harmful to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When we read further the preamble of the proposal, then we can come across a formula by which there is a real danger of sovereignty, which arises for two reasons. The first reason is the threat of unilaterally declaring KIM independence by temporary self-government institutions in the province. I don't understand why it was written, we all know very well that the independence of KIM was unilaterally declared on February 17, 2008, so there can't be a word about any danger, since it's already over. On the other hand, the proposal reads that the real danger exists also because of some states' statements that they will recognise Kosovo's unilateral independence. According to my information, to date, the independence of Kosovo has been recognised by 77 UN member states. It's not about any statements again, it's about facts. We can certainly support Serbia's willingness to contribute to a peaceful and agreed solution to this issue, but we do not understand, the government has not announced what agreement resolution it is considering in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What can be the agreement there when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clear on the one hand, and the actual state is even clearer on the other hand, and there is a very big gap between the practical state and the solution from the preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal also mentions the following -- defending the honor and dignity of its people, who are legitimately and democratically representing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's declaration of the current state of play in KIM after unilateral and violent acts by the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. I don't know how to defend honor and dignity by reporting on the facts. As in this proposal, the Government declaration was based on a factual state and on the presentation of this factual current state of play on KIM. As I said earlier, we don't know anything about what measures are planned, and we can't find out at an open public session. It's not done anywhere in any country like that. That's why I said a little before that a closed session would be more suitable and better in this situation, or only possible in this situation. It is further said that such an operation of international missions is a harsh violation of international law by such acts and activities would directly endanger sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know if we're talking about the same state? As far as I know our sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order have been at risk since 1999. I don't know why this condicional in this sentence would be directly endangered sovereignty, etc. I just can't understand this sentence and I don't know what it's for. The National Assembly hereby sets out the framework for the operation of state authorities and other public actors in defence of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order. It is said that defending the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the people in KIM is a priority of state institutions and all public actors in the country. We know that this is a priority for years and years we've been talking about it being a normal priority, but we think that it goes to the expense of all other possible priorities in this country at the expense of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia regardless of national and all other belongings. Simply the government does not have enough energy and time to deal with other priorities and other very important topics for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The text states that the best way to find a compromise solution is in line with the principles of international law dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. That is what we believe in SVM, dialogue has no alternative and we certainly support dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. The problem is that this finding is contrary to some other points of this proposed declaration, e.g. with points 5g and 5d. It is further said that the government is obliged to adopt concrete measures aimed at continuing all state functions of the Republic of Serbia on KIM territory. It is not clear to me at all what functions the state authorities have been doing since 1999. What functions of the state government still performs there, and what functions of the state government can the Republic of Serbia continue in this situation on KIM territory? As far as I know, there are various theories about the functions of the state government. There's a dualistic, trilateral and quadralistic theory about government functions. But either way, the functions of the state government are legislative, executive, judicial and administrative functions. What role has the government functioned since the numbered Republic of Serbia in KIM territory since 1999? The proposal further says, in particular, obliges the government to act effectively in all circumstances to protect life and property, rights and freedom of the province's citizens, especially the Serbian and non-Albanian population. What does it mean is that the Government is obliged to act effectively to protect the lives of property, etc.? Are those blockades? Is that the use of force? Is that something else? I am very glad that both the President of the Republic and the members of the government said they do not support violence and that Serbia will not war. It's one statement for every commendation, and we greatly appreciate it. From this formulation that the National Assembly obliges the Government to perform effectively and to act effectively, we don't know what it means. That is why I said, among other things, that we should hold a session closed to the public and discuss what these measures can mean to act effectively on the protection of life, property, etc. We will not and cannot find out today at such a political session of the National Assembly. "The government is obliged to adopt a concrete and comprehensive plan of measures to be taken in all areas of its competence in the event of a deterioration of the situation." I think we're just getting to the point. At this session, I repeat once again, closed to the public, these concrete and comprehensive measures were to be discussed, i.e. by the government's plan of measures. We won't know anything about it. We will today remain, unfortunately, on the list of wishes from 2005, 2006 and 2007. We're going to stick to formulas that, unfortunately, aren't real, which are contrary to the fact that it's been around for more than 12 years. The saddest thing is, I don't think this assembly is going to help people at KIM. We have always stressed, in 2007 and on all occasions when the Assembly brought resolutions and declarations to KIM, this is the only acceptable peaceful solution to all misunderstandings and conflicts with political and diplomatic means through dialogue and respect for the interests of both the majority and minorities in the entire KIM territory. We don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, what's going to happen in a week, in a month, and what's sadder, they don't know and can't even know the people of KIM. We don't even know what the RS government thinks of implementing the Action Plan for meeting the recommendations set out in the European Commission's 2010 annual report to speed up candidate status. As you know, there are certain recommendations and certain shortcomings have been observed. These are points 30 and 31. Point 30 concerns the stamps of Kosovo customs, issued by UNMIK, and point 31 concerns regional co-operation, and in particular concerns participation in different regional meetings of Kosovo in accordance with UN Resolution 1244. We don't know which solution the RS government is planning. I think we should talk today about these possible solutions at a public session. I don't repeat so many times, and I'm not undermining a press conference because we're against the public's work of the National Assembly. On the contrary. I think there are certain topics that are not fully discussed at a session like this. In practice, the National Assembly had already held a public meeting in the area of defence of the country. I think this is the way it was supposed to be organised. At first, I said that we were always restrained when the proposals were a declaration and a resolution regarding KIM. There's only one declaration, one act of the National Assembly on KIM when we voted in favour. That was just over a year ago, July 26, 2010. At that time, we voted because it was clear what the government wanted to achieve, then the goal was to address the UN General Assembly, and that was us as the party that always advocated dialogue and agreement on all possible issues, and then, of course, it was acceptable for us to do so. This text again is not acceptable to us because it is undefined, inaccurate, we don't know what measures can be envisaged, we don't know what the government will do, we don't know what the government can do, this way of working for it is appropriate. For this reason, we will be abstained from voting as we have been on the subject of previous resolutions and the KIM declaration. I hope that we must always stress that, I hope that this will not be misread and that it will not be understood in a way that the duchy Hungarians do not support and recognise the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, I hope that from my presentation it was clear that this is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59116	National MP Jovan Damjanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59117	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, the Honorable President of the State, despite all the events that have hit the territory of Serbia, i.e. the province of KIM, where there have been drastic killings, where there have been historic unremembered slaughters, exodus, persecution of the Serbian people and other non-Albanian living, as well as the Roma community. There's a power demonstration again today. We have an international community that guarantees peace and stability, which came to KIM. However, unilateral and violent acts of KIM's economic administration have been re-escalated, rose police units sent and are required to stabilise on KIM. Today, however, much has been said about all this, I appeal to the international community. If we have a declaration of 1244, if there is an international community that is a guarantee of peace and stability in Kosovo, why there is again violent behaviour and the challenge of escalating where tragedy can occur. Does anyone think they can conquer the state and borders with war, murder, slaughter, kidnapping, sell human organs to win the country? So why is there an international community, why is there a UN? Should something be respected to get something, there's a force here, there's no rules here, but I believe that our country and our institution will do everything to contact the most European institutions, I believe they're contacted by the UN, and they're getting in the way of exactly the escalators of the war that are causing the killings again, they're exodus again, something that's most disgusting. We know that our president has sought a peaceful path and dialogue and I believe that the international community will finally stand here with one act and a declaration that no more force is allowed and no force is applied and that wars and murders are caused where there is no need. I hope that there will be an agreement that includes what they say is understanding and peace and that there will be stability there, so that what was the worst and that we all know what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59118	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59119	Dear Madam President, Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we met to discuss and at the end of this working day I trust the vast majority of all MPs to adopt a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the current situation in KIM, following unilateral and violent acts by the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. I've deliberately read this title, these declarations so we don't stray from what's the occasion and what's the reason for today's session. So, the occasion is the events that followed the unilateral moves of Pristina, the crisis that has arisen and the need to discuss the future steps of the government and the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, and I do not think it is correct to transfer the government to this, in fact, to transfer responsibility to the National Assembly, because I recall that the opposition wanted this session to be held, but failed to agree to collect signatures and cancel that session. In that sense, I think the government at least made a good move on one side for two reasons. The crisis is serious and it is necessary to discuss this matter in the most responsible way, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the fact that the opposition felt that it was necessary for the National Assembly to discuss this and to declare this was important and important for the government and she felt that this session should be scheduled. The reason why we are here today is that once again our commitment to peace, to confirm that we want stability in the region and to make a full contribution to stability, to confirm that we are for tolerance and that we are committed to dialogue. I think it's important that we send this message to the citizens who are expecting the outcome of this session today. It is important that we also send a message to representatives of the international presence at KIM, because it is important to realise that the dialogue, which Serbia has been sincerely identified and supported with its full capacity, is not in any way interrupted by any act of RS, but rather that the dialogue has been interrupted and questioned by acts that have come from Pristina. At the same time, this is important to make an invitation to calm down. It's not hard to burn passions when it comes to KIM and people who live on KIM. It is a long and tragic history related to the problems of KIM and the smallest cause is enough for people who are filled with fear, feelings of uncertainty and uncertainty to turn on a torch and turn it into a flame that is difficult to control. So I have to express my satisfaction with today's discussion that shows also with all the MPs, that we are responsible for the message that we are sending and that we bear responsibility for the tone that we are talking about here today, because this tone is being poured over on Kim's life, and it can largely determine the future steps for which both the Government and the Report when the Government has submitted to us, it will not be easy to solve everything that stands before us. At the same time, this session should send a message to international community representatives on the basis of Resolution 1244, on the obligation that if they are identified for dialogue and support dialogue, they must condemn and prevent any unilateral acts that threaten this dialogue. So this is an invitation at the same time to all actors involved in the Kosovo event, to remove all the reasons that led to the interruption of the dialogue, so that in a period ahead of us, not only solve the current crisis, but open the space for all open issues, which are standing before us, to resolve peacefully and through dialogue. One more thing, I think it is ungrateful to go into history that has led to Serbia's whereabouts today when it comes to KIM, because for many years in which this question has been put in the wrong way and solved in the wrong way today led to this point where we have few moves. It is not responsible to ask the Republic of Serbia to do what it does under Resolution 1244 and the Kumanovo Agreement does not have the right to do. It is therefore responsible to ask that Serbian institutions and bodies do what will show that they respect international law and international law while at the same time showing legitimately their interests regarding KIM. Once again, I call upon all the MPs to declare this declaration, deeply believing that the tone that follows in this debate will contribute to all the passions calm down, that the messages we send are messages that will guarantee to the citizens of KIM that we will do everything here so that no one will get hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59120	I thank Mrs. Kolundjia. We move on to the schedule of MPs according to the application for a word in a single search on the proposal for a declaration. I give my word to MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59121	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister and the Honorable President of the Republic, today's declaration, along with, of course, the consultations that we will carry out in accordance with the agreement with the meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups, the SPS parliamentary group – the JS will support. Of course, what I need to say at the outset, and I want to say, is that we should all express our admiration for the citizens and, of course, for the dignitaries of the SPC, who have applied the only possible model of protest these previous days, and that's the one so-called. A Gandhi model to fight for their legitimate right. Of course, the content of the declaration itself incurs one criticism, i.e. expressing real concerns about the operation and international missions in the KIM territory. When we talk about it, we do not want to attack or KFOR, who is clearly delegated to Resolution 1244, nor Eulex, but we want to express our interest in what happened in previous days and simply define this declaration, and when you declare something, you simply want to send a message, and that message is not only sent to citizens of Serbia living in both central Serbia and in KIM territory, but we simply want to send a message to both the international community and the UN and the EU, to point to what was going on in the previous days, which, of course, should not happen in some future period. Those of the International Community who might have misunderstood this content of the declaration should simply be convinced that the intensity of us who will vote for this declaration is exactly the opposite, precisely in accordance with Resolution 1244 and precisely in line with the content of the mandates that these international missions in KIM territory have. We need to define the cause of everything that's been going on since the night of July 25th. So that's one act of violence, one of the one-sided special units of the so-called. Kosovo police. I believe that one such act is simply neither the first nor the last, unfortunately, to happen, and all this is happening in one difficult process of strong diplomatic activity and the use of all possible diplomatic mechanisms at our disposal, in order to precisely realise the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what it is contained in the platform of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is about the preservation of integrity and sovereignty in accordance with international law and Resolution 1244. Someone would say that this declaration or any other declaration is reflexive or reactive to the events on the ground. We simply need those ways that are available to us to fight for our national and national interest and to call on the complexity, on wisdom, on patience, and to try to rightly refer to international law, to the fact that we are an subject of international law, not that so-called. self-proclaimed Kosovo, that just 76 or 77 countries have recognised this self-proclaimed independence to date, which accounts for around 40% of the total number of UN member states. Also, the reality that many of you have mentioned here also says that the specific weight and difference between life south of Ibra and north of Ibra is something that can burden relations in KIM territory. The reality is that citizens are at barricades and that what is called the Prime Minister so-called. The Kosovo states simply failed to implement the work, because the people are on barricades, a people living in the AP KIM territory. Also, we must not forget that the reality that our country's citizens, our country's citizens, are also living south of Ibra, who are one part integrated into the functioning of these institutions that are self-proclaimed, but want to protect their rights, their own interest and that by political action the defences are practically what their hearth is and try to take their clear stance on their lives in the territory of the province. Of course extremism isn't the way to solve this issue. Of course any violent act or violence is not the way to get rid of this. But when we talk about one, maybe the only way we have, besides this Gandhi way of protest, it's dialogue, we have to send a clear message, and I expect that all of us here, as the Prime Minister said, and in the end I expect the President of the Republic to do so, will send a clear message to the very international community, the EU, that it takes two to dialogue, that we can't be discriminated in some parts, and that someone is favored, that we can't fall into a trap to talk about that there's even an excuse for one such unilateral act, because we haven't reached an agreement on so-called. customs stamps. What is most important and what stands in Resolution 1244 and in the mandate of KFOR and Eulexa is free flow of goods and people. This is something to follow after this session of parliament, which should be a positive effect on the adoption of this declaration, which should be the intensity of our negotiators, i.e. the people in charge of this dialogue when they discuss this topic and simply enable the situation on the ground to be stabilised and brought to normal. We know that there is a discrepancy between the form and the formal framework and something that is practically present on the ground, but we have to keep in mind when the moment is coming and what is the timing when we have to reconcile that form and the actual state, but until then we have to endure and insist on what defines and the highest legal act of our country and Resolution 1244 of the Security Council and the UN Charter and all the Helsinki documents, all of what is practically a lever and what is a mechanism for our fight to preserve what is our state interest. The continuation of the dialogue can practically be initiated when things return to the previous situation, and the previous situation would mean that the situation on the ground is normalised, that everything that the Minister of Kosovo and Mr Stefanovic have done in the past days is practically materialised through the normalisation of the situation, and that what the citizens of the AP have made clear in response to this unilateral act, simply norms and formalises, and thus the situation would be restored to the previous situation and the dialogue could be continued. What we need to achieve today, and not only to demonstrate, is unity, and it is important that there is a high degree of one consensual approach to the seriousness of this whole topic, the delicacy of this topic, the interest of the Serbian state, the interest of the citizens of Serbia living in the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija, that this demonstration of unity is not only a demonstration but also a real achievement of an honest unity regarding our future struggle in this field at the level of achieving what is realistic. The achievements, if necessary, and the historical compromise that is also possible by Resolution 1244, but it is possible to do so only if, conditionally speaking, all actors of these talks meet their strategic goals and interests and if we respect the reality that exists on the ground. I am convinced that this declaration, regardless of what some would like to reduce its significance, will mean a lot as a clear view of the state of Serbia, because the most responsible people in this country are sitting here today and that message will just be stronger if we all send it together and I am confident that it will produce a positive effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59122	The People's MP, Riza Halimi, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59123	Thank you, Madam President. I will try to contribute to today's session and at the beginning in the spirit of one of the starting points in which it is said that the National Assembly should defend the honor and dignity of its people, in that spirit I will say that on behalf of my voters in Presevo Valley, I cannot accept this declaration, because it is a continuation and even worse than those previous declarations and resolutions that were back four years in session and adopted by the National Assembly. The other debates have already analysed these fundamental weaknesses and shortcomings, indeterminateness or, in my opinion, unsustainable findings, starting with the most large commitment of the government to continue its function in Kosovo's territory, and we are all saying all the time that, based on the Kumanovo Agreement, what is the situation and what are the possibilities for the government or any other state body of Serbia to work in Serbia. Everyone knows that this is equal to zero and that all these competences have, at first they had international institutions through the protectorate, then they took over obligations under Kosovo's internationally supervised independence, to help Kosovo's institutions rule of law. In the context of this legality, it is unclear to me when it is said here that we will return to dialogue if we return to the previous state in which, and by the international community, it has repeatedly found that there is smuggling, illegal activities, organised crime, that even EULEX has failed in these two years that the main criterion on which it is responsible to slow down this climate of legality and not be the legal vacuum that was present. In my opinion, it is unclear how it is thought now that it is said to be part of an international community that threatens the survival of the Serb population in Kosovo. What part is that? It's got to be said. Which of the international communities endangers the survival of the Serb population in Kosovo, and in what way? If it refers to the participation of the good part of the Serbs in local elections, which selected legitimate representatives in local self-governments who currently have the highest competencies anywhere in the world. I absolutely don't know in which part of the world local self-government has more competence than those in Kosovo, when it comes to minorities, especially the Serb population. I pass through the village of Pasine often, now the facility is finished for both maternity and stationary. It'll probably be over soon. A lot of villages in the Kosovo field now have colleges. They even have certain environments of Strpce, not to mention Gracanica and hospital facilities. We can't open up in Preshevo for 23 years. We've been talking for 10 years in Presevo about teaching college. For ten years, we haven't been able to open it, it's only now being said and at the last minute, the last moment that, not Nis, who refused, not Kragujevac who refused, but Subotica will open an economic college in Bujanovac and when all the deadlines for enrollment are already passing. Do we advocate, when the domain of human rights, civil rights to Serbs in Kosovo, all minorities have all the rights guaranteed by the international convention, so that both Albanians and other minorities in Serbia have? Here we now look through the double arches and then we take it as we do today, we have opportunities of a single minister or a newspaper, but even today, they have even overcome the opposition in their emotional discussions. What does it mean, for example, by Minister Bogdanovic's statement that KFOR has no right to apply force, and the people have the right to protest peacefully, and on this basis journalists make headlines – the barricades are the only asset for new negotiations? What new negotiations? From what I read in the Declaration, it's unclear to me. Is this about new negotiations that will discuss Kosovo's status or are we talking about the already-existing negotiations that have already been negotiated by the UN Resolution, and even the resolution, together with the EU, has been sponsored by the Serbian delegation? If we are talking about other negotiations now, then it should be said openly, but it does not depend on this congregation. This should be resolved, if there is a chance, and our representatives know that there are absolutely no such opportunities for now and there is no such readiness by the international community, nor about the division of Kosovo, which may sometimes be between the lines and based on certain statements and to be heard. Then what are we listening to all the time? That Serbia's quick, efficient path towards the EU does not need to seek Kosovo's recognition, but to create good relations, solve practical problems, solve life's problems. I agree that Special Forces shouldn't be used, I know it best. Albanians in Presevo and Bujanovac know what it means when Special Forces act. Not what they have spectacularly politically represented themselves in these days in the north, but what they need to see is what it means when the gendarmes are there, when one house needs to be searched and when double or triple the number is being hired to block whole villages. One time nearly half of Preshev was blocked three years ago. Then passersby for two, three hours couldn't do their jobs. That's just what we need to see. What is this special police force that needs to run after two, three hours?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59124	Mr. Halimi, time. In the words of MP Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59125	Dear Madam President, the Honorable President of the Republic, Mr Cvetkovic, Prime Minister and Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we heard very comprehensive statements by Minister Bogdanovic and the head of Mr Stefanovic's negotiating team about the events in northern Kosovo. I was under the impression that this is the most difficult situation in KIM, following Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence in 2004. We were hoping that negotiations with the temporary institutions of self-government in Pristina would begin, with the intervention of international mediators, lead to at least some life issues, first of all, Serbs at KIM, which are otherwise referred to as technical ones, but I think that all these issues, starting from freedom of movement to catastrus and customs stamps, are not only technical, but are intruding at the essence of the functioning of one society, one community. That's why they were very difficult and very difficult to come up with certain solutions, and I think that was the moment when they start to solve these issues in a satisfactory way for all the citizens of KIM. However, in the course of the negotiations and what was agreed on freedom of movement and parent books, and what was assessed differently on both sides of the negotiators, on the Pristina side, there was a unilateral interruption, which is said to be the delay of these negotiations for the autumn. They seem to have had serious problems over what further negotiations could bring to an end. In the context of this, I think, not by chance, that there was also the introduction of an embargo on the traffic of goods, as one-sided actions of Pristina's provisional authorities, to attempt by violent surgery to take over the Jarinja and Brnjak checkpoints by members of the special police, with the intention to force and at the cost of even human lives to impose a change in the overall state and reality in the north of the province. I think it's a lot of important things and that something bigger was going on. Unfortunately, authorities in Pristina have done all this in co-ordination with international KIM missions, which is what the KFOR commander finally confessed, saying he was ordered to protect Pristina's legal order. I think there is the biggest problem and danger in this, because this time, too, a hypocrisis and a two-faced claim by some countries' diplomatic representatives that the Pristina structures were working on their own. In this light, you should also see about these two incidents we had, which is that foreign minister is not allowed to attend the Security Council, there those sessions, as well as this case of stopping and searching Minister Bogdanovic and Mr Stefanovic at the border crossing. The PUPS parliamentary group fully supports the Serbian government's request to prevent unilateral actions by Pristina's provisional authorities aimed at changing the reality and ethnic structure of the province, both their duty and their intention. It happens, as we can see, and the opposite. KFOR and EULEX must ensure full security in KIM, in line with the mandate entrusted to them by the UN, then Resolution 1244 and EU decisions, not to put aside the Pristina-based dangerous actions that have been taking place these days. We know, no matter what, that the overall situation in KiM is very complex and difficult because the situation in the Serbian population is very different. The situation in the north of KiM is different from that in enclaves and south of Ibra, and we also have a number of Serbs who are in the structures of Pristina authorities. For all of this, it is difficult to find unique solutions by the Republic of Serbia that would be completely satisfactory. This calls for exceptional diplomatic skills and skills to approach any issue of the Serb population in KIM in a successful manner. The problem created by the burning of buildings and other assets at the Jarinje crossing by a group of violent men should be seriously examined. The act is completely contrary to the interests of the Serbian people. (President: Time. There's still time. (President: six minutes have passed. Finish your sentence, Mr. Perry. I would only like to say that we should thank this people downstairs, since we have heard, which is on these barricades and protects their freedom and their property, and also protects the Republic of Serbia and all its interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59126	I give my word to the People's Messenger, Nenad Prokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59127	Dear Presidents, the Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues, the latest developments in Kosovo should by no means be as regular an alibi for reviving the failed policy and justification for achieving the country's current political ambitions. The dishonest policy towards Kosovo, the policy of big words and wrong deeds is what we have been present for so long, and the result is in front of us. It would really be high time for us to look at Kosovo honestly and as little as possible with a biased dioptria. Bandit hordes organised by dubious individuals, religious patriots and war profiteers should never again decide anything when it comes to Serbian society. Too much damage has already been done, so that official Belgrade can further tolerate them in any way. The talks began to produce first good results and should not be interrupted. It would be really great if the government were able to establish an entirely real policy in good time, an activist policy that goes into trouble. No upcoming elections should be an excuse for stalling in such negotiations, and such calculations have always yielded devastating results in the past and led to disaster, so now we have two categories of Serbs in Kosovo – one in enclaves and the other in the north. Those in enclaves have already given up on Serbia. Nothing can be better than negotiations between Pristina and Belgrade and everything else leads to nothing. The organizers and perpetrators of savage breaking and burning at border crossings must be exposed. It is clear that they do not act on the welfare of anyone except those actors who use the crisis for their own criminal enterprise. Nothing they do should endanger Serbia's European path and the government's to prevent them from working anti-patriotically. Every next step must be withdrawn in agreement with Brussels, and in that sense some statements by President Tadic and the head of the negotiating team, Stefanovic, are encouraging. We should leave that policy to take a bad step after one good step, which is already a recognizable way of working this government. I remind those who are handling Kosovo today that they have an excessive obligation to modernise their society and train it for dialogue, for reforms. Belgrade's obligation is to help them. We call on them to refrain from unilateral acts of unilateral action that undermine the efforts they themselves make through negotiations and dialogue that has finally begun. Escalating conflict and undermining efforts, no matter where they come from, leads to the re-affirmation of the policy that has mutilated the region. Who needs more than one inevitable question to discover the culprits of the latest riots? This time it's not about celestial Serbia, it's about the flow of goods. The plane when it flies, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you know, from Vienna to Kosovo flies across Italy. Instead of our authorities charging overflights, we are thus proving that Kosovo does not exist. The way we react to the latest Kosovo crisis will make it clear to the world and to ourselves whether we have learned anything from any previous defeats and disasters. By becoming more able to find a constructive way to solve the crisis, we will also measure our overall current ability to engage in world flows now that we have not already. The government must understand that the status quo it maintains is not responding to anyone, and at least to Serbs in Kosovo. Especially the escalation of conflict, of course. So, you have to take a more active position, of course through negotiations. We call on the prime minister to urgently ensure the continuation of the negotiations through close co-operation with the European allies and to get out of the crisis as soon as possible. If someone selfishly thinks that they can wait for the election and that life will stop there, they're very wrong about their damage and the damage of everyone else. The conversation at the table ends in the end. One misunderstanding at the table, after all the following events, follows an agreement at another table by a rule completely different from the previous one. The misunderstanding at a table in Rambuje was followed by an agreement at a table in Kumanovo. Which table was better? Whether the government is prolonging an agreement at a table on a single seal calls for a late agreement on a hundred additional stamps, all thinking of elections much more than of the seal than of Kosovo itself. Let's really take a hard look at the situation outside the list of good wishes, and Serbia will certainly be asked not to explicitly but implicitly to tolerate Kosovo. It will certainly be delivered. For the simple reason that they are, what they exist and certainly will not go anywhere. That means Serbia will be asked to tolerate various Kosovo stamps, not just this one. Is this government ready to say now that they'll never do it, and what if they do it later? Is this going to be another big social and political scam? The question is, are we even capable of genuine dialogue? Can we promise to squander Serbia's future for the hundredth time just because our list of good wishes didn't come true, because we weren't smart enough to make it come true because we voted so long and so unforgivable for a dazzling policy. You are calling for unity, when it comes to Kosovo, I guess to avoid your own responsibility later. It's always called for that uniqueness. There is no such thing as unity in failure for an active, positive and well-intentioned social group and individuals. Why not call once for unity and a complete turn of a failed and fallen society like ours? If that's what we're capable of then I guess there'll be others, if we're not how we have the right to invite someone else. We must spare Serbia that space of old shadows. Between ideas and reality, between movement and action, between concept and creation, between reaction and emotion, between desire and cramp, between power and existence, between essence and fall, there is always this space of shadows. Through it, things in the world end not with a bang, but with a whine. Is this really how we're gonna keep whining or are we gonna try to change? This declaration doesn't have a single new thought, it's not written in an activist sense, and we can't vote for it, we'll be held back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59128	National MP Stojanka Petrovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59129	Dear President, respected members of the government, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is an extremely worrying situation in the area of Kosovo and Metohija and a trail of events directed against the Serb community are one of the reasons why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has applied for this meeting today. It has been a full year since the debate on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija as well as the opinion of the International Court of Justice adopted a decision on a joint resolution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the EU on the launch of dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. It is clear that on several occasions there were reasons for this parliament to be ambushed because, meanwhile, the events that had to be discussed and the ways to solve them had to be found. It is known that the resolution should have a dialogue starting in the fall, but then the president is so-called. Kosovo has brought down my government, caused extraordinary elections it has won both with the help of minority parties and unfortunately, including the Serbian Liberal Party, formed a government that is conducting dialogue with Belgrade. In addition to a clear message from the government of the Republic of Serbia that the conditions had not been met, that Serbs participate in these elections, a significant number of Serbs south of Ibra took part in them, where a number of Serbian political entities were reported because they considered this to be the best way to vote for greater rights and better life through institutions. At that moment, there was a division of Serbs to those who went to the elections and those who boycotted them, and it is known that Serbs from the north of Kosovo and Metohija were fully boycotted. Thus, Serbs from northern Kosovo send a clear message to both Belgrade and Pristina that they do not want to integrate into Kosovo institutions. New, old Kosovo Prime Minister Hashim Thaci, with the help of the US-led international community, began preparing the team and creating a strategy for dialogue with Belgrade. A newly formed Kosovo assembly has elected a president whose legitimacy has been challenged by the Kosovo Constitutional Court. At the express speed and decree of the US ambassador to Pristina, the President has appointed an unknown personality, and the assembly without controversy gives consent, saying that Kosovo's government is constantly implementing politics and making decisions with the agreement of the world's leading states that have recognised Kosovo's independence. While Pristina and international factors have a synchronised effect, the opposite of Serbian political entities, positions and oppositions, as well as their outposts in Kosovo and Metohija, cannot find a way to approach the single position, and what should be the priority of dialogue with Pristina. Such a relationship, approach and disunity on the Serbian political scene, with constant pressures from the international factor leading to the Albanian side entering a dialogue with some tangible and visible value. In front of the dialogue, Swiss Parliamentarian Dick Marti presents data on the trafficking of human organs of Serbs from Kosovo, the yellow house discussed by the European Parliament and the OSCE, brings a declaration of conduct of the investigation, but we see recently that it has been pushed into another plan and that those in charge of preventing it are silent and not advertising. While Serbia is co-operative on all issues, examples of full co-operation with The Hague, leading EU members, the United States, are constantly setting new conditions and requirements for Belgrade. They do everything to force Belgrade to move away from Kosovo and Metohija and to make Serbs realize that Belgrade is powerless to help them and that they must integrate where they do not want to, and at the very beginning of dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. We MPs have not been informed of what is happening in Brussels, so I, as an MP, have been informed through various Kosovo printed electronic media, as well as by mediator Robert Cooper, or one who is conducting talks from the shadow of Thomas Kantrimen, as well as spokeswoman of EU High Representative Catherine Ashton. Only after two rounds of negotiations on the KIM Committee have we been introduced by our head of the negotiating team to what is happening in these negotiations. I asked a series of questions, asked for interpretations and answers because the citizens of KIM, where I came from, asked me to explain to them which direction the dialogue was going to take, whether what is being discussed was favourable and whether there would be an improvement and improvement of conditions for the lives of the Serbian people because there was a fear that this would happen right now. The next round of negotiations has already brought something visible and tangible, which concerns freedom of movement, personal documents and license plates. I didn't think these questions should be discussed in the package. The real situation must be seen on the ground because the conditions of the life of Serbs in the north and south of the Ibar River, which until today and after these events were in far more unfavourable conditions of life. Due to the circumstances and pressures of Kosovo institutions, they were forced to accept personal and other documents issued by the administration in Pristina, so that, without distractions, searches, provocations and other inconveniences, they could at least move a little more freely throughout the province. On the contrary, unlike them, we from northern Cosmeta do not need the same documents, because with ID cards, traffic permits and registration plates issued by the Republic of Serbia. We send a clear message to Pristina and the international community that we do not want, nor do we want to integrate into institutions that are not acceptable to us. Serbs from the north of Cosmeta do not want to accept Kosovo's ID cards, a copy of the birth and marriage birth certificate marked on the coat of arms, flag and seal of the Republic of Kosovo, as well as a report on citizenship in which the Kosovoer's citizenship is accepted, which for the north means giving up Serbian and voluntary acceptance of assimilation. All this says that Kosovo's north must be negotiated in particular and it starts to think about correction, i.e. adapting borders because it shows a real state of play on the ground that lasts for 12 years and no one can change it by violence overnight. Unfortunately, the reality is that before the agreement over 35,000 Serbs had a personal map issued by the Kosovo administration. Unfortunately among them is a large number of Serbs from the north who did not need it. First of all, these are persons over 65 who receive more pensions from Serbia and earn 45 euros from their Serbian citizenship. Among them are a large number of Serbs living in central Serbia for over 40 years and leading to origin from Kosovo, for minor financial compensation, a national identity is sold while on the other hand, in ordinary talks, swears to Serbia and Serbia. We have the condition that after the last round of negotiations there has been an interruption of the dialogue on customs service and the customs stamp. I fully agree that our negotiating team could not accept the seal on which the Republic of Kosovo would write. If otherwise, it would mean that Belgrade directly recognises the unilateral declaration of an independent Kosovo, so continuing dialogue on resolving technical and life issues would mean that dialogue is run by two neighbouring independent states. From that moment on, Pristina is starting to make unilateral moves, and surely in agreement with one of its mentors. A embargo was established on imports of goods from Serbia, breaking the CEFTA Free Trade Agreement. For all this time, the EU has been silent, and chief negotiator Robert Cooper is reporting on the continuation of dialogue in September. Shortly after that, on July 25th, the government of Hashim Thaci is making a new, dangerous and risky move, inserting special ROS police units and on the night they head to gate 1 Jarinje and gate 31 Brnjak and all with the help and support of KFOR. From this to today, a drama is taking place in this area largely populated by Serbs. A failed attempt by ROS police units to rule the administrative crossings and take over KFOR, helping transparent transporters, vehicles after the blockade and helicopters transfer Albanian border police and customs officers to help Pristina achieve full sovereignty in the territory of the entire KIM. In the first 24 hours, Eulex is not advertised, but has been working together with KFOR forces since Tuesday. I wonder if they're both neutral or if they've settled on the side of Pristina. All these moves that are pulling away, harassing the Serbian people, there are roadblocks, and anger and anger are hard to control. Thus, the frustrated and irresponsible burn the Jarinj customs checkpoint, causing damage to Serbs from the north, as well as to those south of Ibra, because Albanians have taken revenge measures in some places. The reckless incident has caused great damage to our negotiating team, as well as to the state of Serbia. Based on everything that has happened in the last few days, it appears that temporary institutions in Pristina have violently tried to change the real situation on the ground, exert additional pressure on Serbia and essentially repeal UN Security Council Resolution 1244. KFOR commander and EULEX officials are holding talks with our representatives from Belgrade to regain the situation at administrative crossings, as was the case before the entry of special units of ROS, while during the talks just the opposite agreed. By such a procedure, KFOR and Eulex violate the status neutral frameworks entrusted with Resolution 1244, such actions endanger the survival of the Serb population, and thus the interests of the RS in the KIM area. The implementation of acts by temporary Kosovo institutions is directly at risk of sovereignty, territorial integrity, as well as the constitutional order of the RS in the KIM area. I hope so, and I want to believe that the government will take all available measures to preserve UN Security Council Resolution 1244. I think and believe that the best way to find a compromise solution is to continue dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina with mediators who should be extremely neutral, which is not the case so far. When we talk about a compromise solution, I think that the RS government should come up with a concrete proposal, which, in her opinion, is a compromise, to introduce all of us MPs and the people of Serbia to the proposal, and if accepted in the Assembly, to the negotiating table and thus to the Albanian negotiating team, as well as mediators in charge of dialogue. We're all talking about some compromise, without a concrete proposal, is a flossula, empty, inexplicable, invisible. No one will understand us, not the people, not the international community, not the Albanian side. I want to believe, and that I hope that finally after all this is happening in KIM space, the government will take the necessary, fast and visible steps and meet everything in this declaration, so that the people of KIM will feel it immediately and restore hope and faith for their survival, whose guarantee should be the Republic of Serbia. I want to be convinced today that in this House every party and position is ready and the opposition is in a unique position, when it comes to preserving the national interest and the people of KIM, because all the time, everyone in their own way, is talking about us. For the first time in the North KiM, we are not divided today. Neither do you, because we need it now more than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59130	I thank Mrs. Petkovic. I give my word to the MP Vladimir Milentievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59131	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been rare moments for the past three years when in this high House we could speak on the subject of KIM, and you did not risk a word being taken from you or hitting your pocket, though not to the citizens of RS, but to the MPs. Lately, for the past five days, the unsustainable situation in KIM has almost all the opposition parties asked you to call and appeal for a start-up session, schedule a new session to discuss the situation at KIM and respond to the emerging situation. The DSS parliamentary group offered to you with its 20 MPs and 20 signatures and accepted every combination and opportunity to obtain conditions for the session to be held on a business basis. You have not heard of it, with constant explanation, the president of the National Assembly that there is no need, for the government and all state authorities are doing everything and doing their job well. That's not true. I think, not because I'm from the opposition, that the state leadership didn't do its job well, which is the saddest feeling and conclusion of us Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, that in many ways she didn't do it honestly, that's the biggest problem. Serbs living on KIM, DSS and myself personally, for these three years of your reign, we have turned your attention countless times that the path you started to preserve KIM leads to a stalemate. You came to a break-in, conscious or unconscious, no matter what. You have now scheduled this session to try to explain today how the state authorities are doing everything in its power to keep kiM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia and to seek an alibi for a completely wrong policy. The Serbs at KIM were afraid by yesterday that you had done everything in your power, you announced that it could no longer be done and that there was an end to the story. Yesterday at the barricades in Zvecan, he encouraged me, remained in deep memory no matter how long it took. First, by who knows which way Serbs living in the north of KiM have confirmed that they do not want at the cost of their own lives, the integration of so-called. Kosovo, and it should be clear to everyone if it has not been so far. Secondly, we Serbs living in KIM regardless of party membership returned to the period of unity in 1999, when we unitedly and unitedly defended the North KiM against exodus, stayed in their hearths and gave our country a chance to share with us the southern province in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Third, yesterday's good coordination, consultation and the adoption of a common position of certain state bodies with Serbs in the north of KIM and their local leadership, what do you do in the emerging situation? Yesterday, at barricades in Zvecan, I saw former KFOR forces, which are currently NATO forces, a force commanded by Hashim Thaci. General Biller's statement unequivocally confirmed it and made it clear that he would use battle ammunition on those who attacked them. I've been asking everyone a question for the past 12 years, since our agony -- when it was an attack on KFOR, UNMIK and EULEX, and definitely, although NATO officials represent them as peaceful and neutral, they are not. They've come out of resolution 1244 and unfortunately for us, we're currently seeing them as enemies and that's reality. Yesterday, when today's session is scheduled, it gives me a ray of hope that the state leadership has realized that in the present way KiM cannot be preserved in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, that it is slowly sobering and that it will change its relationship and policy towards KIM in many ways. We need to get answers in this high house today to some key issues from the State's leadership. The first question I ask is whether the state leadership sincerely and firmly maintains the Serbs living on KIM, and our determination to protest peacefully with boycotts, disobediences, etc. We defend the integration of North KiM into so-called an independent state of Kosovo. Second of all, do you intend to change your policy towards KIM, because it's obvious that so far has been wrong and definitely failed. The Eulex mission you accepted as status neutral has failed, as it is definitely not neutral from today, Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia, but respects the Constitution and the laws of Kosovo and establishing customs controls throughout Kosovo's territory. Repeat, KFOR forces are no longer peaceful, but NATO forces under Hashim Thaci's command. The Ban Ki Mun-Belgrade agreement failed, a Belgrade-Pristina dialogue aimed at good neighbourly relations between the two states and resolving technical issues. What can be concluded from all this in the end? You urgently need to change your policy so far, return to Resolution 1244 and start political negotiations on all issues in solving the problem at KIM. And finally, the EU's and KIM's illusions are out of order, in this time and in these circumstances, unfortunately total waste of time, there is nothing from the EU. Please, on behalf of all Serbs living on KIM, turn to definitely and finally, the preservation of KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59132	Nine minutes and 15 seconds used by the MP's group. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, followed by MP Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59133	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ten minutes or 11, as far as I have at my disposal, are not enough to point out all the disaster of the national and state-run policy that has been under way in the Republic of Serbia since 2000. To avoid any confusion, as the head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, the SRS parliamentary group will vote in favour of a proposal for a declaration relating to the current situation on KIM, not because the declaration is good, but that the sharps would not laugh at us tomorrow, that no one would be able to pass on to us how the Cypriot parliament was unique when it comes to defending their national interests, and that the Serb parliamentarians in the KIM matter remain divided. Of course, this does not mean that the SRS did not refer to the text of the proposed declaration and would not send very sharp criticisms and very harsh objections. First of all, it is quite unacceptable that in the second indent of this declaration, it is said that there are allegedly certain states that they will recognise Kosovo's unilateral independence, with the person who drew up this declaration obviously losing sight of 77 countries already recognising KIM's independence, and among them 22 EU member states. Furthermore, what is at point 2 is unacceptable. The proposal for a declaration to break the status neutral frameworks entrusted with Resolution 1244 and accompanying acts, as it is said here. Resolution 1244, by deep confidence of the SRS, is not statusally neutral. So Resolution 1244 guarantees KiM essential autonomy as part of the SRJ, i.e. the Republic of Serbia as its national legal successor. Also, it is unacceptable for the wording of point 4, that appropriate measures should take all, as it is said here, the status neutral mission on KIM. The Eulexa mission installed at KIM in December 2008 is not status neutral. So, her primary task is to implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan on so-called. to monitor the independence of KIM. The Eulex cannot be called a status neutral mission. Also, it's not clear why this bureaucratic language means anything. He says -- defending the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the people in KIM as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia under international government is a priority of state institutions and all public actors in the country. What does that mean to you public factors in the state, I don't get it at all. In item 5 of the proposal for a declaration, the Government did not have the courage to point out which part of the International Community is questioning the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia to the KIM. Who gave military, political, media and logistics support to the Shiptars for acts from a few days ago? In its amendments to that part, you say, the International Community has made it clear. To avoid any confusion, that part of the International Community is called the NATO Pact and is called the majority of EU member states. Of course, since this issue is in some way a taboo topic for the ruling coalition, it is probably one of the reasons why the Legislative Committee refused to even discuss Mr Bozidar Delic and Dejan Mirovic's amendments, which contain the correction of this part of the text of the proposed declaration. Of course, when it comes to KIM, the SRS cannot look back on some of today's statements by ministers in the Serbian government. The funny thing was that Mr. Vuk Jeremic said that he could not name which states, permanent and non-permanent members of the Security Council, which opposed him to attending closed consultations in the Security Council, as if it were a secret, and all the daily presses in Serbia announced that it was the United States, about Great Britain and Germany. The question arises: Will anyone bear at least moral and political responsibility for what happened in the National Assembly a few days ago? When the SRS urged the ruling coalition's MPs to discuss KIM in a civilized and cultural way, we lost several precious days, before the UN Security Council met rather than the Serbian parliament. Mrs Gordana Comic, who is now chairing the National Assembly session, punished the SRS MPs for no reason whatsoever. Members of the ruling coalition have made statements that a session of the National Assembly is unnecessary, that we have nothing to talk about, that the government should do its job, and now we are invited to vote on the proposal for a declaration. We will do so, but not because of you, but because of the Serbs living in KIM, because of the dignity of the Republic of Serbia, because we do not want anyone pointing fingers at the SRS tomorrow and saying, "You are the ones who disturb the state and national unity when it comes to the defence of KIM." I would take advantage of this opportunity as Mr Boris Tadic is present, to point to the fact that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia is not only at risk to KIM, but also in another Serbian autonomous province, AP Vojvodina. So, Mr. President, on 30 May of this year, an agreement was signed on the deployment of AP Vojvodina's representative to the mission of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. Time does not allow me, of course, to quote all the dangerous provisions of this agreement. You're not a lawyer, but you'll understand what's going on. Article 5 – The representative of the AP Vojvodina shall receive diplomatic, i.e. the status of a member of administrative and technical staff, depending on the type of business he performs, and in accordance with the law governing external affairs. Article 5(3) – Representative of the AP Vojvodina who has diplomatic status of the state of reception and other diplomatic representations is notified as diplomat of the corresponding rank, indicating that he is in charge of regional co-operation. Article 10. – the Head of Mission allows the AP Vojvodina representative to participate in negotiations, events, talks and other events led by the Head of Mission, which are part of the work of AP Vojvodina representatives. This, Mr. President, as you can see, is a partial balance on the foreign political plan between Vojvodina and Serbia. The AP Vojvodina shall exercise its competence by giving mandates to the representatives of the AP Vojvodina on matters of their jurisdiction, in accordance with the law governing foreign affairs and the relevant decisions of the AP Vojvodina. Article 11. – the representative of the AP Vojvodina shall have all the rights and responsibilities of diplomats, i.e. members of the administrative and technical staff of the mission, in accordance with the regulations governing external affairs. Mr Dragan Todorovic reminded you of what some newspapers have published these days, that the prominent Italian newspaper "Korijere del sera" published on its web portal a map of the Republic of Serbia without the AP Vojvodina. If you look at the text of this agreement, then you can see it's not quite as random as Mr. Canak would have wanted. Furthermore, what is not clear – how it is possible that no one in the state of Serbia responds to the fact that the Cypriot, so-called. Ship's special police units to the administrative crossings of Brnjak and Jarinje transport Croatian helicopters? If I'm not mistaken, here, correct me if I'm wrong, when he entered the throne of St. Sava's current patriarch Iriney, Mr. Boris Tadic was brought by Croatian helicopters. This isn't the first time in Serbian history. So in 1942, Mr. President, certain Ustasha units crossed the Drina River and planted with the Germans in an operation against Chetnik commander Dragutin Keserovic in Kopalnik. At the time, the foreign minister of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, a radical, Momcilo Nincic, had the courage to send one note to the secretary of state in the British foreign ministry, which stands among other things - so, the Croats slaughter Serbs and in Serbia. The ministry of foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia has not responded in a single word to the fact that several days in the eyes of the marking of "Storms" Croatian helicopters are transporting Shipars on the territory of Serbia's AP KIM. Will someone bear responsibility, at least morally, even politically, because of the fact that incidents in the north of KiM have been time-consequent with the fact that Goran Hadzic was in The Hague? The man didn't land in Amsterdam, there were incidents in the north of KIM. Can anyone, here, do you, Mr. President, can the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia tell us if the EU is our friend? We are the only country on the globe, the only country that wants to become a member of a community of states that does not respect its sovereignty and territorial integrity, the only country in the world that wants to be part of what you say in this declaration, works of the International Community that does not respect the dignity of the Serbian state. Also, we are not clear, I have not heard, perhaps you have reacted, I have missed that one of the officials of the Republic of Serbia responded to the court's shameful verdict in Budapest that declared the war crimes that killed Serbs in Novi Sad, in that infamous raid in 1942, to the innocent. We apologize here to everyone, to the Croats, to the Shiptars, to the Muslims. Mr. President, for lack of time just to read to you, I quote: "A statement from the fifth session of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia", these are our great friends, "maintained on 29 July 2011. Yesterday. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia made a decision that puts Article 1 out of force. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. The Serbian people in Croatia will no longer have three guaranteed representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Think about this, Mr. President. Do not make moves that are obviously harmful to the interests of the Serbian state. As president of Serbia, do not worry more about Croatia's interests, the interests of Muslims and the interests of Shipar. They have their political representatives, so let them take care of them. You take care of Serbia and take care of Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59134	Twelve minutes and 22 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Zarko Korac, after which the MP Dragoljub Micunovic. Time available to the LDP parliamentary group for six minutes and 24 seconds. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, replica. Here you go. I'm just asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59135	Madam Chairman, I think that the injured member of the 107th National Assembly is the dignity of the National Assembly, because I think it's a violation of this institution's dignity if the public is deliberately deceived. We all know that in KIM, international military-security forces, there are also representatives of the state of Croatia within these military-security forces, that Serbia, by Resolution 1244, has, in particular, lost some of its sovereignty in KIM by not having Serbia's security forces there. In that sense, accusing anyone of allowing military aircraft from other countries to fly in KIM territory is a public deception, because it is true that it did not happen yesterday or the day before, it happened in 1999, after Serbia signed the Kumanski Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59136	MP Zarko Korać has his word. You have no right to a replica. Please. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59137	No, Mrs. Comic, I don't want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. If you'll allow me, I'd use two minutes for a replica, and if you won't, what can I do? (President: here you go. ) So, Mrs Kolundzija, and in 1999, Serbia lost its sovereignty on KIM, but the sovereignty on behalf of the Republic of Serbia is being organised by the UN and the troops to whom the UN Security Council has given its mandate. Secondly, in 1999, Croatia was not a NATO duck member and did not have its troops in KFOR, and no one prevented you from asking your friends from the NATO Pact to move the forces of those states that were members of the NATO Alliance to the KIM, when it comes to NATO forces, in 1999. Croatia does not belong in the order of these countries. Secondly, Mrs. Kolundjia, you know that when the Serbs on KIM see a Croatian helicopter with a chess machine, I'm sorry, it's an additional traumatic experience for him. I don't know if Croatia would react peacefully if Serbian helicopters flew, say, through Baranja or through Slavonia. I doubt they'd react peacefully to that. Secondly, you can't stick your head in the sand like nothing's going on in Croatia. Do you see when the decision of the Constitutional Court of Croatia was made? When it became clear, when the EU told them that you were entering the EU in 2013. Why did they need constitutional law? Well, as a fig leaf to say -- well, yes, we love Serbs, we want to join the EU, we protect the rights of national minorities. And as soon as they got the EU entry date, they suspended the rights of the Serb people. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59138	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59139	The Honorable chairman, the SRS was in the government when the Kumanski Agreement was signed. Then why didn't you condition who could and who couldn't be in NATO forces at KIM? What you signed back then, we live today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59140	I ask the Members of Parliament to allow the session to be conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic is registered and will receive the right to reply, and I would ask you all most kindly not to disturb any other participant in the session, who is also using the right to replication as well as the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. As for one, it's for all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59141	First of all, I must note that the appeal to national unity in the Serbian parliament, when it comes to KIM, is somehow not working with this constant controversy on certain party issues. As much as we abstain from Mrs. Kolundji, from now on promoting our narrow party interests, you insist on doing so. But since you obviously forgot some facts, I want to remind you of those facts. So, the SRS, Mrs. Kolundzija didn't sign anything that year in 1999. We're the only ones who voted against the Chernomidin Ahtisaari agreement. We were against the Kumanovo Agreement, we decided in 1998 by entering the Government of the Republic of Serbia, making a rather delicate decision, to defend the Republic of Serbia from the NATO Pact and we defended the Republic of Serbia as we knew and could and we defended the Republic of Serbia. The second thing is that you, you, and in 1999, I must remind you of the statement by late Zoran Djindjic that KIM is a democratic issue, that the KiM issue will be resolved the moment he spoke of democratic forces taking over power in Serbia. Here, democratic forces have been in power for ten years in Serbia, and I don't see the KIM issue being resolved. So, the easiest thing to say right now is that you were in the government at the time of NATO bombing. We did, and we were defending the country. With that intention, we have entered the government, but it is impossible for us, who have been in the government for two years, to bear the same political responsibility as you, who have been in the government for ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59142	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59143	I really don't want to get any more of that. When I spoke at the very beginning, I felt it was irresponsible to go into the history of politics that led us to this point that we are at today. It's not since 2000, it's not since 1999, it's not since 1990. So that's right. I think it's extremely unfair for people who live on KIM, who expect at least today to try to do everything possible from positions that are worse than they were before 1999, which are worse than they were in 1990, they're worse than they were before 1980. But still from these positions and from this narrow tight space that we have to try to do everything in the interest of the citizens of KIM. The only reason I reacted is because of the facts. So I don't think it's fair to say things that aren't true.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59144	MP Zarko Korać has his word. Six minutes and 24 seconds. After him, MP Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59145	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. President of the State, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike most or all who spoke today, I think unfortunately this crisis that has taken place at KIM was inevitable. Undefined status and often a double structure of government in northern Kosovo have sparked this conflict, and it could indeed have been predicted. To me, it's a great surprise that those in charge of running this country's politics couldn't countercipe it. Serbia has been mired too long in that it is possible that this status quo lasts for the most part and that the negotiations to which it has begun, with great delay, will in fact be a solution to the problem that this part of KiM has largely double power or, realistically, it is much more of the government of Belgrade than Pristina itself. So it's almost always in history, that the conflicts begin with customs. If you look at all of human history, you will see that the conflicts over the status of one territory have begun to debate customs over one territory. A customs conflict that didn't begin now, but practically two and a half years ago, after three and a half years of Kosovo's existence as an independent state, the seals of that state two and a half years ago were not recognised, so the boycott hinted at the conflict that occurred. I must say that the main feature of politics at this point in Serbia is the denial of reality, which is absolutely seen today in this assembly debate. I'm just going to remind you of three things that everyone knows in this room and probably all the viewers who watch this broadcast. The first is that the Kumanski Agreement, which is true, has left Serbia's authority in Kosovo. We can be schooled to believe that it was given to the UN, when the sovereignty of the work of a country's territory surrendered to the UN, then the country lost its sovereignty in that territory. We, of course, can go the way that the former Chief of Staff went, so he suggested the former president of the state for the National Hero Order because he defended Kosovo, but the reality is that Serbia lost that authority. The second is the fact that Serbia has not recognised Kosovo's independence, but it does not change this first and basic fact that Kosovo today is a de facto independent state. What concerns is the reality that has now been created for the last five days in Kosovo. I have to say, it's very difficult for those scenes that remind us of 1991. We've got people blocking the roads, we've got balvanas on the roads, we've got international troops who want to confrontation with these people, and we know the results of the policy being conducted in Western Slavonia, in Eastern Slavonia, in SAO Krajina. So every time it was a way of denying the existence of that state, claims that it could be fought for certain rights, it was essentially a disaster for people who wanted to let their rights, as they see them, come true. The reality is that there are KFOR troops or KFOR and that the general commanding those troops said he would use force next time to secure travel routes. Excuse me, you have a clear announcement of the force to provide travel routes and, of course, I'm interested in who in this room wants to take responsibility, which supports it and the consequences it can come up with. I don't want to, but unfortunately it can come, and very soon, when it comes to this confrontation, where on the one hand you have an army, and on the other hand you have citizens, people who block those roads. I wonder if we as a people are able to learn something from our history. What's safe, here we see, if I may say so, is a double policy of Serbia. On the one hand, an uninterrupted hesitation to tell the truth, and I'll tell it. It's that the situation has changed dramatically in the last five days. On the other hand, the cynical use of this situation to send patriotic messages, with very clear ideas that it will eventually be politically worth it. This is not only about Kosovo's north, but also Serbia's stability, I would say even Serbia's future, as a state. There's a lot of stakes. It is certain that some in Serbia and that it is responsible for further confrontation, to stop this development of Serbia and to isolate Serbia again. It is very clear here, even in several discussions, that Serbia has nothing to look for in Europe, that European integration should be stopped, that it is one big illusion and that it should be clearly published here. To avoid that, you have to say the following, and very clearly. First, the solution to this crisis is practically exclusively in the hands of the international community and Pristina. It is not the solution to this crisis in Belgrade's hands. Serbia should not be passive, Serbia can be diplomatic and should engage diplomaticly, but it cannot, in essence, only its means, say, in this crisis is to push citizens in northern Kosovo into an unfair confrontation. Then she must also take responsibility for the results of this unequal confrontation. It was really hard for me to even speak to the Prime Minister, and I know that it was official state policy and that's the only policy he's ever made here, in the speeches of many who have spoken here constantly talking about so-called. organs, temporary organs, so-called State. East Germany was not recognised by most Western countries, so 30 years later it was a real state. This unrecognized country, so-called temporary organs, they have police forces that and how they can do something, and it's been shown recently. Therefore, we, ladies and gentlemen, must do something here that is only possible and that something was an opportunity when elections were in Kosovo. Unfortunately, Belgrade's policy was also Belgrade's message -- it should not go to those elections, and a relatively small number of Serbs, south of Ibra, went to the polls. They, unfortunately, are not representative, for the other Serbs who live because of a small number came out. But the only real change that has taken place is what this assembly has to determine -- this problem will not be solved differently, first of all, but that Serbs north of Ibra step in and dialogue with Pristina themselves. That's what you're systematically avoiding here to say. In other words, as a small number of Serbs south of Ibra decided to try to exercise some rights politically with Pristina, for the time being a large minority, the same must be recommended to Serbs north of Ibra. Patriotic phrases will not protect them, they will have to talk to Pristina sooner or later. As a man, I can understand the psychological problems, the emotional problems of these people. They haven't done it for a long time, they don't want to do it, but the reality is that the only way that they can somehow help resolve this situation is for those very people who are sitting on those roads right now, the actors, to try a certain difficult initial conversation with Pristina to fight for their rights. (President: National MPs, time available for parliamentary groups has been used. I'm finishing my last sentence. I think Belgrade should not usurp the rights of Serbs in the north, that there should not be talks between Belgrade-Pristina and Brussels, but should also be direct talks between people living in northern Kosovo with Pristina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59146	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Dragoljub Micunovic, and after that, MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59147	Here, it's already six or seven hours as long as this debate is going on. I said, "How long is the debate going on?" It would be good for you to listen well when I say something, before you throw it away. Listen, at least it's good to hear. So, for more than six hours, this debate has been going on. Of course, she's expected. The opposition will use that to criticise the government. He doesn't have to make any suggestions about what she would do, it's important to say that what the government did was wrong. On the other hand, the government came, the government, right here to say what they did. It's correct to say what they did. That they immediately sent responsible men, ministers and negotiators to prevent incidents that, unfortunately, at one point armed, armed, whatever you want, a group of phantoms, all these great guys, we watched them in Genoa, we looked at them in Belgrade, we looked at them everywhere, once they were hooligans, they were thugs, they were third time children who didn't know what they were doing. Anyway, they're organized. Who organized them? It's a matter of organs that are involved in showing off. This heroic work with phantoms and molecules, when no one stopped them, there was no one there, produced one effect that today the whole world is looking at television as a form of violence and barbarism. It happened now, that we, instead of being on the side that defends human rights and which is against violence or the application of violence, of any kind, should now be looking for how it happened and shooting at cops and everything else that happened. We've mixed up some things here. It's one question of justice and justice, that's a valuable question. Surely in the Balkans, where borders change every 50 years, there is always a surplus of injustice for someone, but then, after a while, it appears as an excess of violence and that relationship here that balances is like that. What the worst one can assume, which is that it's much stronger, much more independent than it is, then what's going to happen to him will happen to him. This is where the Prime Minister Bulatovic submitted his exposés. Perhaps someone remembers, when he told us that we had divided NATO and that we had defended our sovereignty and integrity. Then I said to him, "Well, you are not the president, little child, that he may keep his hand on his eyes, so that which he does not see does not exist. When you have that sovereignty, please go to Pristina. What's this about? So, we all know, I'm not going back to that history, she's famous to everyone. I wanted to appeal to something else, if we can think of it that way with one projection of the future. I'm just curious. I've heard a lot of things. One of the scariest sentences I've heard in these rooms for the past 20 years of conflict and conflict has been – we can't live together. We can't go with the Croats once, we can't go with the Muslims, we can't go with the Albanians for the third time. That sentence is first ugly for every objective man who hears it. She's not human, she's not tolerated, she's not whatever you want democratic. She's not true. It's not true, because it's been living here, and it's going to live in the future, whatever it is you're telling me now, or you're going to solve it together, and you're going to live next to each other. If we are not able, as politicians, to make this projection how we intend to live in the future then obviously we are not responsible. Politics is responsible for work. We can't behave, I remember one of our officials, the minister, the president was later on, who was speaking to the sera sera. What's to be? We saw what happened. It is not the way to conduct politics. Let it be what it is. We will prove ourselves worthy, brave, etc. With that heroism, I was hoping when inflation came that there wouldn't be so many people drilling into the chest pointing out their patriotism by contesting others. At first, I was even afraid that some young people would go after them like that and not die. I remember those '90s, and then it turns out they're not gonna get shot somehow. No one's even ticked. So she doesn't have to be too scared when the big passwords are thrown out. We have one crisis situation that was produced by incidents both on the one hand and on the other. Has anyone been surprised that Kosovo authorities will remain waiting and deprive themselves of their aggressive romanticism and will not take a unilateral action again? I expected them to do it. And they did it with these customs blocks and of course they're causing one particular crisis. How can we react when we criticise the authorities? Let's see what that alternative was. The alternative means next, something else. That's the meaning of the alternative. We saw you don't have to do anything. So we won't talk to them, we won't talk to the international community, we won't talk to anyone. And as someone said, the time will come, maybe in a hundred, 500 years, the circumstances will change and then all right. We are not chosen to solve problems in 500 years, but what will be in five years and what will be tomorrow. It's our key job. It would be very good, and I'm glad that the great majority here will vote for this resolution that might have been better, which is why it's been corrected by amendments, but not to get out of the reality that my predecessor was talking about, that we know where our powers are. What can we do? We now have a situation that, for example, leaves the fear of those people there. Who can control the uncontrolled groups in Kosovo Mitrovica today? What they can produce and what reactions they will react or someone will be eager to respond as harshly as possible or to use force. So we're in one situation, so we can't affect the course of events. We can influence in one single way, and that is to show ourselves, to continue the policy of a country that appreciates peace, which is respected as one stable factor in the region, that one image, remethylatic, as it followed us because of wars that have passed, slowly change for one normal democratic image, one other image. That was the way, that was what the president of the state was working on, the government was working on, other responsible people were working on it. That's our job, we'll always come across sabotage, an event that'll disrupt it, but we don't have to catch up to any inappropriate gestures right now and then say, "We're breaking up now." On the contrary, we will be persistent in the desire to create a good neighbourly relationship, a good co-existence with the people around us because it is good for both of us and to simply change that bad image we had. We should be very careful in that, that rhetoric sometimes doesn't pull us back too much, for something that we can only regret afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59148	Thank you, MP Tomislav Nikolic. Just tell me the base of the call. By hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59149	While you were taking turns, Mr. Micunovic said something he needed to react to, but he didn't have anyone. In his intention to spread defetism at this session of the National Assembly, Mr Micunovic said that we are not in a position to decide anything that can happen down there. I would ask you to say, since he is the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, if that is indeed the official position of the ruling majority, what are we actually discussing here? Please, for the last five sentences, I guess you could remember, anyway, look at the stenogram. It's unacceptable for me to be president of the Foreign Affairs Committee to say that there's nothing we can do about it that we can't influence down there and that we're sitting here right now discussing all day. If we can't influence, let's get together and get out of here.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59150	I don't think he's really hurt the Rules of Procedure, I haven't heard the line you're talking about, but the political experience, the wisdom and well-meaning of Mr. Micunovic, certainly rule out your findings. National MP Milos Aligrudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59151	Very briefly, it does refer to you as a member of 107, because we have to take care of what the other MPs say, it is a very different matter, so it is not what Mr Nikolic wanted to say. This is about that part of exposé when he said the opposition had the right to criticise the government but not to suggest anything. Today it is very clear to you as chairman, all MPs know and the public knows that the DSS has proposed a declaration, that we have proposed an amendment with the text of that declaration, that we have asked you to take a short break, to consult, to go to the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and to see if these two texts can find a compromise solution because that is the goal. If something can't be clear, I don't know what can be clearer than to experience such an insult. So that's what this is about, and you've had to intervene and say, Mr. Micunovic, it's not true, there are relevant proposals, there are amendments to the opposition and there's a comprehensive text by the DSS. Whether you accept it or not, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59152	I don't think there's any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but if you're not satisfied, I really don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. In voting day, we'll come forward. Mr. Dragoljub Micunović, please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59153	I just wanted to say that it's not enough just to have a wish, so you have to attack someone, but you need to be heard and you need to know what they're talking about. If anyone really believes, then I was really mistaken, if Mr. Nikolic believes that he has an impact on 300 or 200 people who are armed and who can cause a problem, then that's another thing. But, officially, as the Serbian government, we can't send the police there, we can't take direct protection of citizens, but unfortunately it's under the jurisdiction of the peace force and that's a fact. I just said that, and it seems true to me, and who wants to deny me that he can influence, then it's a shame he hasn't affected so far, so we'd have avoided these incidents we've had.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59154	MP Zeljko Tomic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59155	Dear President, the Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I am particularly pleased that, at this difficult moment, this place in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is also present and Serbian President Boris Tadic is the essential creator of Serbian politics in the past few years. On one occasion, I compared him here to a literary character, and I'll do it tonight. It reminds me very much of old man Santiago from Ernest Hemigway's novel "The Old Man and the Sea". I'll remind you, this fisherman, Santiago, caught a big fish and pulled a boat to the coast. So Boris Tadic is today leading Serbia towards some goal, whether EU or EU bids, already no one knows. But the fish from moment to time are getting smaller because they're eating other fish. The question remains. Will Serbia also remain torn apart on this virtual road? As things go, I'm afraid the answer is positive. Politics on Kosovo and when it is good and when it is bad is and must be a central part of each Serbian government's policy. By changing that part of politics, the whole policy is changing itself. You did not want Kosovo to be your central policy, but the EU, thinking that you are the smartest and that this is your creative and innovative approach to politics. Here's where it got you. According to us from the DSS, Serbia should insist at the start of new negotiations that will be in line with Resolution 1244 because dialogue in Brussels has yielded disastrous results. Its goal was not to improve life in Kosovo, but to establish good neighbourly relations and to indirectly recognise Kosovo. What do I want to say? Just like at home, building a house. I guess it's also necessary to build the foundations and then talk about electricity and water, and we talked about water and electricity nine days ago, I'm talking figuratively, and we're not. That is why, in our proposal for a declaration, we propose to open new negotiations on all basic issues concerning KIM, based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244. A few things still have to be remembered. KFOR did not act on the basis of Resolution 1244, but under Ahtisaari's plan, which has not been legally revived anywhere, it is not valid and valid legal act. We witnessed where Commander KFOR Biller says he's working on Ahtisaari's plan. We could see that in all the media last night. No one from Serbia from the state summit reacted to that. When Eulex became KIM's Supreme Arbiter, I will remind you, without a government decision, without Parliament's decision, it was visible that Albanians would try to round up their country with the help of Brussels and Washington. Eulex went through the cheese on KIM territory. No legal act stands behind that act. No legal act. Today, the head of Eulexa, today literally today, says that EULEX respects the constitutions and laws of Kosovo and Metohija, and then, as soon as they set foot in Kosovo's territory, spokesman Eulexa said that EULEX will work to establish the institutions of an independent state of Kosovo. The events precede you, they have been threatening you all these three years, as sovereignly as you are in power, yet today. Why? At least for two reasons: lack of public and lack of will and desire for unity. The public's work is over and it doesn't exist. In three years, this is the second time you've come here. Both times in crisis and difficult situations for the state of Serbia and for the people of Serbia down in Kosovo and Metohija. Speaking of unity, it is very important to know that today's declaration is brought without any co-operation with the opposition and consultations with the opposition. Is it possible that we were moving around, about the most important state issue right now, and I hope that this will continue to be the most important state issue since the crisis is too big, too big. Will the government be able to lower its arrogance to the lowest possible level and sit with all the important representatives of Serbia and do so? If your president says Kosovo is ahead of the EU, don't make us believe you. Today is a good opportunity to show it and prove it. Convince the people that Kosovo is more important than the EU. On the eve of World War I, Germany cried out that Serbia must die. Today it became a programme of a part of the international community. Does Serbia have to die to join the EU? Does it have to rip her heart out, and that's Kosovo? For the end, I must tell you, it is important that the session be terminated, at least for 20 minutes. To make consultations, to schedule the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and to make a compromise solution to two declarations: the DSS declaration and the RS government declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59156	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, based on Articles 27 and 90. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a ten-minute break, in which we will have consultations between the heads of Parliament and myself. In order to bring the final proposal into line with the text of the declaration. So in O.R. 1, we'll have that meeting, and we'll continue at 8:00, 45 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I give my word to MP Dejan Radenkovic. Just sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59158	Thank you, President, I'm a little surprised. Let's continue the debate. I think our goal today is to show unity and not just unity in this home. That unity is more necessary in KIM, first of all I think of those who live south of Ibra. Today it is clearly defined who is the cause of all this, of this crisis and of who are allies of the provisional Pristina authorities. Our job is to make sure that there are none among us who are unconsciously or consciously working at the expense of the state and the survival of Serbs at KIM. A debate like this, of course, has an echo on KIM. It brings additional confusion to the Serbian people, who is benefiting from this? He's using opposition parties that kiM serves as an instrument of party struggle. In this House, it should be clear to everyone that KIM is not a party, but a national and a national issue. She's of the utmost importance. Please let us all be aware of this today. It's up to us to choose whether we're going to give auto goals all the time, and that happens to us a lot. Our path is the path of peace and reason. Conversation, not the way to create chaos and stimulate fear. We need to send a message to the Serbs at KIM today to stay there. It is important to point out that Serbia has not made a move that has been at the expense of the citizens of KIM, regardless of their ethnicity. This shows Serbia's clear commitment to dealing with problems peacefully. Uncertainty, fear, uncertainty marked the life of Serbs and other citizens in KIM, for the past 12 years. A particular problem is respect for fundamental human rights. The rights are respected only in reports that speak, written by the interim Kosovo authorities and by representatives of the international missions that are being sent with KIM. In real life, unfortunately, these rights for Serbs and members of the primary non-Albanian communities do not exist. The question of responsibility for everything that's going on on KIM is huge. Who's responsible for what's going on on Kim? Who's responsible for there's no justice? Who's responsible because people are 11 weeks old. For 12 years, they cannot exercise their right to property, nor can they return 200,000 displaced to their homes. Is anyone responsible for the fact that the few who return to them are also being waged violence? Whether only Kosovo's interim authorities are responsible or unfortunately the biggest responsibilities still belong to international peacekeeping missions. Without answering these questions that we expect from the EU and the UN, we cannot rely on permanent stability, and the answer is simple – the international community is the only one who has the mandate to ensure peace and stability for everyone on KIM. A negotiating table open and honest talks are the only solution to co-existence in these areas. Please continue to discuss dear colleagues and colleagues, we are conducting a constructive debate and not making it more difficult for the Serbs to be in Kim's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59159	National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59160	So, six, seven minutes ago, we finished our consultations when it comes to the text that needs to be adopted tonight. I regret to say that when it comes to the compromise between the two texts, the two proposals for a declaration we have here did not bear fruit. In fact, in the essential part, these texts differ and it is practically one place where we insisted that this current text be amended and it is my duty to describe in these few minutes what it is, what it is and what this problem is about. Namely, this is about the text on the part of the text of the declaration proposed by the ruling majority who says so, I will now specify something that is consequences if I may, of course, have some conversation at these official consultations in this pause. And this text, which will likely later pass through the KIM Committee, is proposed by the ruling majority, sounds like this: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia supports the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue the dialogue with Pristina, with the aim of finding a solution to the specific problems of the citizens of KIM, and to reach a lasting compromise solution." The text we have proposed which is different from this sounds like this: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia insists on opening new negotiations on all basic issues in line with Security Council Resolution 1244, under the auspices and organisation of the Security Council." In our proposal, there are a few more points that we have insisted on taking into account this third one, which is here that writes it, I'm just going to read more, extremely important. It is necessary that the country's policy is actively addressed to international factors who are ready to support it and support it in various international activities. So these two points did not find a place in this proposal by the RS government. What's our most controversial question is exactly the point we were talking about. That is, therefore, the question of continuing the dialogue. To be clear, the DSS is not against the talks that need to solve the problems we have with Pristina. We have been, and so far we have pointed out on several occasions, against the policy that resulted in one dialogue, under the auspices of Brussels, which led in such a way as to represent as one lefty through which to go, where they are passing all narrow and narrow and eventually entering the groat. The groat is an effective recognition of Kosovo's independence, through a system of blackmail that appears during dialogue and on the ground. Why? Because it opens up the practical issues of everyday life. So no one argues that this is important, but each of these practical issues involves one previous question that we deny, and the Albanian side is separatist about it, which is that whenever we talk "a" or "b" with them in that dialogue they mean that we de facto recognized their status neutrality. We deny it to certain borders verbally, our side, but at some point when it is estimated by the Albanian stand it comes into any crisis for them, as the text of your motion for a resolution says, they will assist part of the international community, which among other things is located in the KIM territory, in the form of individual missions, they will do something themselves to block this dialogue. Now watch what the game is. I saw Mirko Cvetkovic, in his presentation, and it was published in the media today, that there is a setup next – that we should allegedly be drawn to abandoning dialogue, so that the Serbian side is blamed because the dialogue has failed. Believe me, it's a complete replacement of the thesis and that we're just moving within the frameworks that Albanian separatists impose on us and very interesting how we do, or out of ignorance, i.e.. The government of the Republic of Serbia, either out of ignorance, or because it doesn't see, or for a third reason that I can't even mention tonight, is not the order, it does. So they interrupt the dialogue to get us back into the same tunnel that we were in, in the same left hand, but this time with worse conditions for us, a stumbling block. At one point in this dialogue, which we thought was not neat from the beginning, that it was not good and that it was counterproductive, the stamp appeared, the customs stamp. It is announced in Serbia that it will not be accepted. This dialogue is delayed by the mediators in the dialogue, of course, because we were not ready, our side to enter that story as the Albanians wanted. Right after that, there's a blockage. So, an actual demonstration of the power of the Albanian side, supported by the work of the international community on the ground. Right after that, they take up border crossings, they're willing to carry out violence with unsuspecting consequences, and we now say in this declaration, you may have good intentions for writing this, but trust me, it's deeply wrong. Then you say to them: We are attached to the same process, but they are defiled. Believe me, we don't outsmart each other here, this isn't the outwitting of political parties in Serbia about concepts in front of citizens to win elections, we're talking here with people who know very well what's going on there. They are representatives of the International Community and that is the Albanian side. We can't fool them this way. The only answer this country has to have right now is that if something doesn't work out, believe me, we think it's because of you, we at the DSS think you've made the whole plan wrong. That's not the point, the point is that, when it comes out of here and out of you and us together, the assessment that politics was wrong and that it's broken, not so much because of ours, but because of the Albanian side's move, among other things, that it's possible to give an answer that's going to worry, we're not talking about the threat of weapons, we're not talking about the arrival of forces on Kosovo's territory, we're talking about once loud and clear saying that this, gentlemen, what we've tried simply isn't going to go, because the bird on the branch is clear that at every time the next moment of the trip, it's going to come to these exces, so this dialogue won't be possible anymore. Let's look ahead, make a proposal for a change of policy. The change in policy is not a return to old, but a request to discuss and negotiate all issues, both these and basic issues, under the auspices of the UN and the auspices of the Security Council. Does that mean reintegration of the Security Council? Yes, but it is a framework that brings concern, and we thus show Serbia's attitude towards this kind of behaviour towards us. There's nothing dangerous about it, believe me. What goes on, it's dangerous. So what's the point here is that this kind of text that's given can't be the basis of complete unity, because, by our deep conviction, it's a disaster and we can't support this, and we'd like you to have the strength to change this in this sense that I suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59161	Thank you. MP Zeljko Ivanji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59162	Dear President, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't be talking about a left-handed woman in which we could enter the policy that we are leading, I would talk about having a small space in which we can only run politics. The current situation in Kosovo indicates an international law deficit. From Resolution 1244 to the OSCE Resolution on the Trade of Authorities in Kosovo, we have a whole series of international legal standards adopted. They don't talk about status, they talk about standards. These standards are based on basic values as the liquid of civilization. Some of them are UN pillars, some of which are EU pillars. From sovereignty to human life without whom everything loses its meaning, everything is normal. All these legal floors can be changed, but only by the decision of the body that made them. So, the fact is that the Security Council can bring in a new resolution, but we have to bear in mind that 12 years is in effect a resolution that does not support, or violates a third of the UN member states. What would happen if a new resolution not supported by two-thirds of the UN members had been passed? Serbia wants to participate equally in a consistent respect for the international order, but not in its destruction. Who knows which way, thanks to the irresponsibility of certain hooligans, a myth is being created about Serbia as a violent country. Some of us are violent, but some of us are violent only on words, because all we have left are words, thanks to their policy that has led us to the edge of existence. But we also have different words, especially in diplomacy and a whole language called diplomatic, one weapon called active diplomacy. The active or development of diplomacy is the one that reminds the Security Council today of the category of something we call international law and that's a fact. From Kosovo as a bribe to Kosovo today, whose foundations as Serbs have been perpetuated by a constitutional preamble, is a long way to go. Some have fought in Kosovo, sometimes now and now, some have been rallying in Kosovo to bring Serbia down to Belgrade's pasture, and we have perpetuated Kosovo with a constitutional preamble as a message from Serbia that will remain behind us. We haven't made a myth out of Kosovo, we haven't fought with passwords, but we're fighting in the only possible way, and that's the first time we've talked about Kosovo, for the first time in Serbia's history. Kosovo has not been used for pre-election purposes. In Kosovo, we want to live, but also to stay alive, because with the dead in Kosovo neither will Kosovo nor will Serbia. The only thing we can't appreciate is that the international, military and administrative forces are the perpetrators of the self-called Kosovo government. Unfortunately, their presence does not infuse security. When I watched a video of a concerned KFOR commander on his cell phone asking for instructions from his command, from his superiors, I saw actually a real deficit of international forces. It reminded me of that situation in Srebrenica when the commander of the Dutch battalion is also looking for instructions, and while this is happening we have an escalation, we have something that was the most terrifying in modern Europe's history. The general solves the situation, solves it by responding to a NATO statement that it will shoot everyone and anyone at the border crossing. We saw that KFOR's authority was built here on NATO's force. My thesis is actually, if they knew what was going to happen, they wouldn't be so stupid in their actions and not call for force. The policy the world forces called Kosovo a single case, thus recognising its independence or politics as being moved away, is an inspiration to Hashim Thaci for an action that was meant to be a Kosovo flash and a storm. He was counting on silence. They spoke the stupidest and thus marked the states that represent a silent inspiration. Dig Marti, in his famous resolution on human organs trafficking, literally says he received data from the intelligence services of certain countries, saying they knew about the terrible crime and silence approved him for the sake of a major goal, which is Kosovo's independence. Our heads for six years after Kosovo must remain on their shoulders. I primarily think of our countrymen living in Kosovo. Their lives are threatened as they live in a sort of ghetto, as second-class citizens. This parliament today must send them a clear message that we are with them and that we are all with them. Congratulations and negotiator Borko Stefanovic, Minister Bogdanovic, Minister Jeremic for doing their job responsibly. Their behavior and their messages are clear, honest and human, and they are also completely understandable. They're not mythological, they're not big words, that we've been listening to for years without any results. Definitely, our government's behavior provoked Thaci. It's important that we all know. By the wrong perception that adorns this criminal, he predicted that Serbia would react in the usual way that has embellished us so many times in history. That's why we have to negotiate as we have so far. That's why he set off in the negotiations with Thaci through a frustrated bully, expecting to push Serbia into "Storm". The only result is a bunch of shots in Jarinj and by who knows which time the KFOR and Eulex deficits are shown. Apparently, there were no results of the negotiations, and that's why Thaci's government took matters into its own hands. What would happen if we took matters into our own hands? Because we're the only ones who have cover for it in international law from Resolution to CEFTA. We respect international law, but the great powers definitely don't. That's the only fact that we have to have a clear strategy for the special scenarios in this narrow divide, which I was talking about at the beginning of the speech. Unfortunately, we are not in a position to create a scenario, and therefore we cannot allow the hooligans to participate in its creation instead of our government. That's why it's important that no incident comes from our side, so we don't edit CNN's news. Serbia will not go to war because of a simple fact -- because this war would lose, and then history would create us winners, as unfortunately many times so far. Our defeat couldn't be justified as a victory, because we wouldn't actually be there anymore. We will live in Kosovo, although Thaci would be happy to remove our organs, and trailers will go to Kosovo, not from it as long as the Serbs in Kosovo and Serbs are outside Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59163	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the extension of the 33rd session of the KIM Committee is in Hall II and I would like to ask the MPs who are members of this committee to leave immediately to perform their work. National MP Bozidar Delic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59164	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Government, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a very important topic. Today, the government is suggesting that we should show here that we are unique, but I must also say immediately that the hypocrisy that lasts for months in this assembly continues today. At the beginning of the session, we had a proposal from the SRS to discuss such an important issue in double time. Like anything that comes from the opposition, it's smoothly rejected. It doesn't matter to us from the SRS whether we discuss this issue for five or 50 hours. All that matters is what the final result will be, so that's why we said in advance that we would vote for this declaration. For a long time in this room, the SRS has been looking for a debate about KIM. Just a few days ago, here in the Assembly, we were punished by a reminder of the mention of KIM, and today you are looking for our support and unity for your failed anti-state policy on KIM. Parliament Speaker nearly triumphantly announced to the media the other day that the opposition does not have the necessary number of signatures to open a debate on KIM. Then he sends a letter to the parliamentary groups that it cannot be debated, because there is no government report, as if KIM depends only on the government and as if MPs can't make a declaration on their own, but must get it, as this time has been done, from the government. (President: Mr. Delic, please don't misinformation the citizens. Members may discuss the document proposed. So it was just that I taught you what to do in order to make your proposal work. ) Taking all of this into account, it could be concluded that KIM is only a part of the opposition and that it is not interested in the ruling majority, i.e. it has no knowledge and assessment in which direction this situation will develop in the future. It is high time for the government gentlemen to give up your crazy policy that has no alternative, because everything that has no alternative today is insane, because it threatens not only Serbia's sovereignty at KIM, but also the survival of Serbia itself. I'm glad the president of Serbia is here today. We invited him as long as 15-20 days ago to attend a session initiated by the SRS. And then I told the President of the Assembly that she had no right to speak on behalf of the president. I'd be interested if Mr. President just said if our invitation to attend the assembly session was received, because I don't think anyone can answer for him whether he can come or can't come? The questions were of such a nature that only the president of the state could answer them practically. All those who came from the government are simply not competent to discuss and answer such questions. What I resent, Mr. President, which is already said today, which is practically two things. Regular people, well, as an MP, I might say so, but you as president of the state certainly don't. Serbia was exposed to genocide in the 20th and 21st centuries and suffered great casualties. No one apologized to Serbia. You apologized, Mr. President, many times and more than I should have, but what particularly affects me is that you ordered that Serbia would not fight. Mr. President, Serbia has never fought a war. Serbia has always defended itself and has never been an aggressor and has never fought in anyone else's territory. Well, when you say Serbia won't fight, then that means Serbia won't defend itself. The defence minister also says the Serbian Army will not war, which again means that the military will not defend Serbia. Then why would we need such an army? It is known that we in the SRS every year, when talking about the budget, are particularly talking about the military budget, and we advocate that it has a higher budget and enough resources to carry out its missions. Today, this three-mission army, which has only one mission, can participate in international missions. If the army exists only because of it, then we don't need such an army. Do you, Mr. President and Minister of Defence, know that what is ultimately the competence of this assembly, and in certain situations yours, do you know that a state of emergency was introduced yesterday at the part of Serbia? Instead of the preventive measures of the Prime Minister or of this assembly, NATO has imposed an emergency situation on us at the part of our territory, so that he may unpunishely shoot at the naked Serb people. People in KIM, especially in the north, are in emergency. All this time, since we have been trying for days to discuss this assembly, ordinary people at KIM, and even in Serbia, it is clear that a criminal NATO organisation appeared as an aggressor in 1999, then as an occupier, and now appears as a realiser and founder of the quasi state of Kosovo, and now in the northern part, in four municipalities that were inhabited almost exclusively with Serbian life. KFOR, gentlemen, has always been NATO and has never, for all these years, since its aggression in 1999, been neutral. If it had been neutral, gentlemen, I guess that Resolution 1244, especially Annex 1 and Annex 2 would have been implemented. All that was required to do to Serbia, it did so to the last letter and point, and only two things in that resolution were important for Serbia, which is the return of our population and others, the return of our military and police. For all these 11 years, gentlemen, it's been your job and you haven't done anything at all. What, gentlemen, is the worst and what you must change, perhaps even tonight at this session, Mr. President, Prime Minister, and all the other state bodies, is our behavior which, especially this time, breaks the resistance of the Serbian people to KIM. The morals of the Serb people can never break NATO and KFOR, but morals seriously endanger our behavior and our story that we will not, after all, defend KIM, or our people. There are many ways and, gentlemen, if you wouldn't tell me now and object that I'm standing up for some other option, there are 30 options. We of the SRS advocate, Mr. President, negotiators, members of the government, to use everything, primarily peaceable means. But that 30th way, Mr. President, you can't give him up and that's what the Serbian people at KIM ask of you because if Pristina knows there isn't, so that 30th way, they'll keep doing what they've been doing these days. One great force which, by the way, has caused you all these problems at KIM and its representatives tell you – the carriers of our planes are the fingers of our diplomacy. Serbia has no aircraft carriers, but it has pride and dignity and must have one line below which it must not allow further humiliation. It must be said - if you do not protect the Serbian people in KIM, if you do not do so, if you have taken the international obligation to do so, then Serbia must do so, because it is mandatory for the part of your people. I say that's the 30th way to help the Serbian people at KIM. Do everything you can to keep that 30th way, but you can't rule it out, Mr. President. It is best to always say that Serbia will defend its integrity and sovereignty in KIM territory by all means. To say that Serbia will never war, I think it is absolutely wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59165	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59166	Thank you. This is already in this hall who knows which declaration or resolution on Kosovo is being discussed. Dear Professor Micunovic remembers 15, and the results of all this seem to have not met the needs of the moment from afar. What are you doing today? The constitution gives a very clear explanation – Kosovo is an inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia and thus all the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia have an obligation to establish territorial integrity, sovereignty and constitutional order in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. In other words, the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo is what is considered and must be seen as an insult to the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. I don't see any misunderstanding around here. But all this stuff I'm talking about right now would be so on the condition that we started from scratch before the start of this session. However, we have not started from scratch and for us, the 99 years of Kosovo in Serbia, 99 years of mostly wrong politics, 99 years where there is a huge misunderstanding about what and how to do next. Claiming that this government and the president of the Republic are the policy architects today, which, behold, performs in Kosovo is about as if firefighters are architects of a burning building. Because this isn't the beginning, I say, from zero. I'll remind you, the scenario we're looking at today in Kosovo, demanding all of us who have witnessed the terrible '90s, reminds us of what we've already seen, which is: masked groups that, carried by patriotic enthusiasm, destroy unprotected property, then barricades of the naked people, then the avalanche of patriotic drilling into the chest, then these same patriots earn huge money on oil smuggling, weapons and food, and then the bare-armed people ends up in Belgrade and Vojvodina on tractors. We have seen this so many times, that this is really sad and forced to repeat once again the tragedy we have seen so many times in the '90s means to be a criminal to your own people, to be a criminal to all those who suffer terror, violence and injustice in Kosovo. I would like to remind you that today's debate is abounding with the abuses of Kosovo's tragedy, as we had the opportunity to see, say, on 17 March 2004, when the pogrom in Kosovo turned into a demolation of Vojvodina cities, into breaking the New Sad, into burning mosques, all against what democratic and pro-European Serbia is fighting this year. We had a chance to listen today to how, my God, the "Koriere del sera", the Italian list, published a map of Serbia without Vojvodina. I've been checking for hours, that's not true. We have come to the situation that this is another abuse of Kosovo's tragedy to discuss something completely different, which is about the concept of Serbia as such, Serbia that has unwaveringly stepped on the path of European integration for a simple reason, which there is only one way that there is no problem with customs at the administrative border between Kosovo and Serbia. There is only one problem, that there is no violence at the border, which is that both Kosovo and Serbia are in the same system of values, which is the EU because the EU has erased borders, even between historical enemies such as France and Germany, and it connects us with Kosovo much, much more. I must say that those who ask – what does the EU bring us and what do we really want from this EU? I'll tell them one thing: yes, many EU countries have recognised Kosovo's independence, so what? We are not here to resolve the EU issue but to discuss the issues of improving all Serbian citizens regardless of their national, religious and political membership. We are not here to discuss whether the European Commission means it or not, but to see how citizens in this country live better, and citizens are all Serbs and Albanians and Croats and Hungarians and Slovaks and Russian and Roma and Vlasi and Romanians and all those I haven't mentioned. That's what the Constitution of this country says. It says so in all the documents this country is proud of. I must draw attention to those who are now taking the opportunity to rattle with weapons and say that President Tadic's statement that Serbia will not wage war is not protecting Serbs in Kosovo. What war did the Serbs protect? What war has made it better for anyone other than war profiteers and those who lied that Serbia's borders would be on Karlobag, Ogulin, Karlovac or Virovitica? Is that right? Is that your limit? So why don't you go to that border, dear friends? Why don't you go to that border? Why can't you move so you don't get stuck in a prison where you can't wait for everything you've done in years? Because this idea of yours is about big Serbia and this idea has been paid by hundreds of thousands of people with their heads, and millions of fates have been destroyed because of your Kosovo bribe policy that serves nothing but to fill your pockets with money of smuggled oil, of smuggled weapons and everything you did in the '90s. The fact that you think someone's forgotten about you, that's what you've been wrong about. All policy extensions in the '90s will have to pay for it. I know exactly what I said. You won't get away with lies and demagogues. You will not escape, and the only honorable man of all of us is Dr. Vojislav Seselj, for he has gone to report to The Hague and to say whether I am guilty, let's see. Is it possible that only he was the one who was making evil in the '90s, and none of you were or did you hide under his shadow and now you're sitting here and you're getting journals? Shame and shame on you. All in all, if anyone could explain to me who I mentioned, Madam Chairman. On what basis is the replica sought? Who recognized the word "criminal"? I'm asking him to replicate. Who recognized the word thief? I'm asking him to replicate. I ask him to report to anyone who has identified himself as a criminal, because that is a word that characterizes the policy of the 1990s and those who are fighting today, my God, against corruption in Serbia. Lying is also a big scam, but let it be. Of course, is it possible? Is it possible that in this House there can be no word from those who still live in the '90s who got away with it? Is it possible that politics towards Kosovo will continue the way it was led in the worst times this country has been pushed into the fungi. She pushed that today, my God, the declarations on Kosovo are being supported, and she is attacking politics towards Kosovo. A policy that only leads people to stop being killed and children being afraid. Is this what we are doing today – will children live in European Serbia or will they die because of medieval peace? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59167	National MP Dragan Todorovic replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59168	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that certain MPs have a situation and that it is difficult to change. There are some interventions needed. Here, I'm asking for the public and for the truth, I said that in a daily newspaper information was published that they took Vojvodina from us and that's this newspaper and that's this title. But here he holds a letter, a man sitting in a Ustasha rally called "The Heart of Croatia" and he teaches us about Serbia, patriotism, about justice, about democracy, and about anything, so that goes beyond all possible limits. They have also brought us into this situation where we are, installed by those who aim to destroy this country, for the petty benefit of themselves, are able to inflict every evil on Serbia. One of them is the most recognizable, you had a chance to hear it right before my discussion. Unfortunately, I'm sure nothing will change with him, because that's impossible. Insisting on it is just a waste of work. I tried once, unfortunately, that intervention seems to have failed, I was hoping it would, but obviously it's not, that I can't repeat it anymore, but you do something that is up to you, that these things in the Serbian Parliament don't repeat themselves. As for Vojislav Seselj, for your information, he went to this democratic Europe, nine years old and has no first degree verdict, is that your democracy, is that justice, and not one single vote from this country. That's what you allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59169	Please time. Suddenly Canak has a word. You need to reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59170	Of course you can't understand when someone can't change, because you don't know what it means to be principled, because you've come from the fact that the sharps are being solved by throwing over the Curse More to play some kind of democracy. And that, about "The Heart of Croatia", was a set of people, citizens of the Croatian nationality from Vojvodina who you bombed and stoned out of Vojvodina in 1991, 1992, 1993, and shame and shame to be you and blood on your hands to fall as you deserved in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59171	Now, Mr. Todorovic, let's bring the replicas to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59172	Ladies and gentlemen, it's obvious that some have short memories, but let me remind you. Especially, Mr. Chairman, here's this image of democracy, this image... (President: I'm sorry, Mr. Todorovic, I'm a lady, I'm not a gentleman. I meant as president of the assembly, we didn't introduce a new speech, you know. The President of the Assembly, for me, is the President of the Assembly. That you didn't recognize what to do to you. This is a form of democracy. Look at the size of it. At a rally, he claimed to hang the then president of the state, says, on this bander I will hang him and he will hang someone to talk about democracy, some democratic principles, respect for their rights, so that's a shame, aman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59173	I guess you didn't tell the truth. Mr. Canak wants to deny you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59174	As before, Mr. Todorovic is lying, it wasn't a bandit, it was a digital clock, it was the first. Secondly, uh... (President: You cannot use the term lie. Choose euphemisms. ) Mr. Todorovic continues with a creative understanding of the truth. By the way, it wasn't a bander, it was a digital watch, and I said in the Condicional -- if they steal the election one more time, and that applies to the national socialist regime of Slobodan Milosevic and fascist helpers like you, then we'll go to the Dedinje and get the garbage out of the bunker and hang it there. You've left us as a chance to defend ourselves against your terror and the murders that lasted throughout the 1990s. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59175	Gentlemen, I will not allow this atmosphere to continue. Ivica Dacic, the first vice president and minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59176	I'd ask you not to do the '90s, because that's when we were in power. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Mr President, Prime Minister, fellow Members, since I have been in Parliament since 1992, fellow Members of Parliament think that the way we are discussing this issue is not an adequate situation in which the state and our people are at KIM. Of course, it's not just about this side that applauds, it's not about, it's not about those you think I said it for, it's about what Mr. Canak said. Because I think the topic we're talking about is far beyond our interparty relations. I must tell you, I was both the government and the opposition. I supported the government of Vojislav Kostunica. I never said that one Serbian government is to blame for the KIM situation. The biggest culprit is Albanian separatistism and the unanimity of Albanians to create an independent Kosovo. Please let us overcome our party differences today, because the title of our today's session, open the internet on Mondo's phone, the title "Government criticises Pristina and opposition power", and from the session of the assembly so-called. Kosovo's parliaments uniquely support the violent conquest of the north. Mr. Krasic, I didn't answer, nor threw when your people spoke. I therefore report and speak responsibly as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. Don't throw it at me, even if it doesn't agree with what I'm talking about, because the topic we're talking about didn't come yesterday. The theme we're talking about, as you know, was not created during Milosevic. The theme was created many, many centuries ago. After all, the problem of the relationship between Serbs and Albanians existed in all the state and social arrangements in which Serbs and Albanians lived. After all, at the time of Charnojevic, Serbs moved from Kosovo. After the Berlin Congress until World War I, at least 200,000 Serbs were expelled from KIM. In addition, under a secret agreement between Austria and Italy, during the Berlin Congress, the two states pledged to create an independent Albania as a wedge in relations between the Slovenian peoples, especially between Serbia and Montenegro. After all, KIM demonstrations were both in 1968 and 1981, long before Milosevic arrived. They were then looking for Kosovo's republic. According to Badenter's commission, it was also not said that Kosovo was a republic. The international community is today talking about Kosovo's territorial integrity, based on the 1974 Constitution. The same territorial integrity should have a Vojvodina. The Vojvodina, to remind Mr Chanko, is even shorter in Serbia than it is in KIM. Does that mean we're going that way? Of course it does not mean and of course there is no international legal basis for declaring and accepting the unilaterally declared independence of KIM. Throughout history in the relations between Serbs and Albanians, I apologize to Mr Micunovic, but few were examples of a common life of Serbs and Albanians. Throughout the history of constants were only conflicts and only wars. Because their goal was only one, not living together with Serbs, but independent Kosovo, or I don't know if any of you here believe that so-called. An independent Kosovo to be an independent state alongside one of their home states of Albania. This means that if an independent Kosovo, as a state, is recognised in the next few decades, it will be one state, a large Albania or a large Kosovo, anyway. We tried everything with the Albanians. The constitution was in 1974. There was a war. A permanent solution is needed. A lasting solution is needed for the historic conflict between Serbs and Albanians, and there is no permanent solution unless it is just. This solution that imposes a part of the international community is not just and therefore cannot be permanent. How to solve problems, war or peace? Multiethnic Kosovo, so why did Albanians in Serbia not accept living in multiethnic Serbia? How those who supported Albanians to live in multiethnic Serbia rather than break away from Serbia. Today they say that Serbs should live in this so-called. multiethnic Kosovo. So, I think, of course, Serbia is defined for peace, defined for dialogue, but we all need to be aware of one fact, that behind the honest, behind Serbia's back, which is truly defined for peace and for dialogue, while giving us a hand behind our backs, they are strengthening and creating an independent state of Kosovo. Even Resolution 1244 ended the war, declared a possibility and basis for the creation of an independent state of Kosovo. We all know that's not true. Resolution 1244 speaks of the sovereignty of the SRJ state at the time. Because the obvious power of arguments is weaker than the arguments of power, owned by some in the international community. Can we find a common denominator? Both Albanians and that part of the international community, which is obviously on the Albanian side. I think we owe that truth to our people. Our people need the truth, they don't need anesthesia. If we continue to defend KIM in this way, in reality everything will be worse. Or try to find a compromise solution until it's too late to keep Serbs in KIM and Serb parts of KIM. The aim of this action was, of course, the violent conquest of the north, with the silent consent of the international community. Here is the President of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic, to tell all of you, I call on him what the US representatives of the EU promised him, and when we accepted EULEX and when the UN General Assembly resolution was adopted, was it then said there would be no change in reality on the ground. Please, don't, I said throw it away when someone else is saying it. Please, I don't speak here on behalf of my party, I speak, I try to speak state-of-the-art. Whether I'm right or wrong, let each of you evaluate, I have a right to say it. Besides, someone here kept telling me how I could say something that wasn't in line with the Constitution. Of course, I respect the Constitution of this country, Kosovo is part of Serbia, but can't believe that it has the right of the entire international community to talk about Kosovo, that Americans and KFOR come to the administrative line and I, as president of one party and deputy prime minister, have no right to talk about Kosovo? Please, I'm not breaking the Constitution, I'm just talking about that if you want us to preserve the Serbian people and Serbia, we have to run a policy that will be, that will be able to pass through all these canyons, through which our country and our people have been going through for all these decades. Kosovo is as you saw today mainly the field of party struggle. Who will receive what, who will lose what, who is deserved and who is guilty. We weren't guilty of war either, I don't think, sir, I don't think, ladies and gentlemen that your governments were guilty when Kosovo declared independence and one significant part of the international community accepted it. I don't think today either. Whatever government Serbia has essentially problems with Kosovo is not the government of Serbia or the Serb parliament, but the separatism of Albanians and their firm determination not to absolutely discuss any mode of life together with Serbia and Serbs. If we don't figure it out, but we're outwitting Kosovo, I don't think we're gonna do any good to our people living on KIM. We need to know, to guess what's waiting for us. Of course, we should be in good relations with our friends who support Serbia. I guess that's undeniable. Albanians are unique. Is the international community biased? Was KFOR biased in this case, was Eulex biased? Yes, it is. Well, that's nothing new, so it's been going on since 1999, and I said they're doing it behind the back of Serbia's Serbian people, but people, ladies and gentlemen, that's reality. Their bias is unfortunately reality. Therefore, no government of Serbia can be blamed for the situation on KIM, the main culprit is Albanian separatistism. The Serbian government can only better or weaker manage to find a way out in all these difficult difficulties that we are going through with those countries that are our opponents with those who are our friends. Of course, when it comes to the EU and all this is done, it aims to see Serbia's candidacy accepted, to get as far away from Serbia as possible when it comes to KIM. I guess that's clear enough. But I think that all of us together whether we're in power or opposition, we need to be aware of our primary goals of interest but, to be aware of the reality in which our people live at KIM, that we are not here to bear an unrealistic policy that will not preserve our people at KIM. Of course, it's not the session we're discussing today, but we should talk another way and answer our own question. We answer our own questions – where they are and what our red lines are. That's a question for all of us. For both the government and the opposition. Where are our red lines and are we all behind these red lines or are we looking at some of our own party interests? Please, we cannot allow politics to lead us, but we must lead the policy of this country and our people, and therefore I call you on that if we should and should change the approach of our policy if it is in the interest of our people and the state of Serbia, but of course we are unique about it and that we know what national state interests are and not that we are constantly fighting inter-party struggles. I thank you all, unfortunately, the M.O.P. has no authority at all on KIM. Unfortunately, the MUP does not have its own KIM members and is not exactly any information that appears particularly in the Western media that members of our ministry have been to KIM at the time of these events. But on the other hand, I'm sure they're there, that this situation wouldn't happen. Once again, I call us all, not to unity, but to realize that if the Serb is no longer in the north or in Kosovo, the story of Kosovo will remain only in our history, only in our literature and on the ground will be a completely different picture. So let's do everything we can to avoid conflicting with KFOR, EULEX and other international communities that are stronger than us. To protect the Serbs on KIM, whether we can or can't. We all have to engage in this, it's the only way to keep our people in KIM. Any other alternative will not be in the interest of Serbia or the Serbs at KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59177	I thank Mr. Dacic. Mr. Krasic, there's no basis for replication, I see you signed up. Nothing, you were just interrupting Mr. Dacic, and he tried to point you to it. National MP Sasa Dujovic has a word, and according to the Rules of Procedure? Here, wait a minute, Mr. Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59178	I think, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that the Rules of Procedure are still in force, and he hasn't changed during the day. This is the member who questioned the dignity of the National Assembly. It's impossible for Mr. Dacic to notice anything while everyone's talking. I don't know if it's some kind of disease in the government, 'cause everybody's uninformed. If you had been at the beginning of the session, you would have seen how Mrs. Hope Kolundji opened the session, with what avalanche of attack. We are willing to help Serbia take a unique position on KIM and that is no problem. After discussions like this like some kind of diagnosis that's been heard here, it can't, gastritis works for a while. Warn your MPs to bring this session to an end in the right way, and please, put together those Members of yours who submit amendments and in the amendments say they prefer the EU, rather than the RS Constitution. I feel uncomfortable, I see Mr. Ratkovic, he was a courier of resistance from the US Embassy bringing money to the Resistance, so I see some other resistances, so I see Nenad Canka, so I see this Minister of Thaci, or Recep's Minister of Agriculture, Bogdanovic, and is this an honest session, people? There is Borko Stefanovic, at the beginning of the appeal there is no partying, but everything is foreigning, as if you are resigning, you are giving some information here, so Cirić kicks you out at the beginning, only your eyes didn't drop when he ordered the cards that you talked about the customs stamp. You found me to warn? Don't let that happen to you anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59179	Mr. Krasic, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, if anyone is my messenger, you are the most, like everyone else. The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59180	Dear Presidents, President of the State, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the time has come for us to take certain steps to send a clear message to our people at KIM and this is a unique opportunity, after a full-day debate to adopt this document and declarations, to begin, to show one picture of unity and to sincerely believe that this declaration will be adopted with a maximum of possible votes at the moment. Our people at KIM today, and believe me, I've heard from many, even the video bims have been set up to monitor this Parliament's meetings, in the expectation that our unity here today will work, and I believe that this unity will get full capacity by the end, until the very end and voting. But many have spoken today when it comes to our country or the international community's relationship with our country. We are aware of everything and we are all aware of what the power of our country is in the current socio-political order of how it rules in the world. Therefore, from here we need to be truly unique to support the government of Serbia, to support all the efforts that the Serbian government is making to protect our people in KIM, to support the negotiating team to begin again under European supervision of negotiations with Albanians, to make a full contribution at this time, and the moment is really not easy. Our countrymen, above all, are in the north, but both south and south of Ibra, expect us to do so, asking us to do so, asking this Parliament today, i.e. late tonight a unique response, a unique message to our statesmen, to perform uniquely in the fight for their rights, to perform uniquely in the fight for the rights of Serbs and non-Albanian lives, but primarily in the Serb people of KIM, to do so with Gandhi methods, as is now done both in Leposavic and in Zubec and in all other places. In that name, we will support this declaration and we will make our full contribution to all of it and we will make a full contribution to the complete negotiating team, the complete government of Serbia, to find out from this difficult moment a way out, a way out that would be worthy of a decent life, the life of a decent man in KIM, a life that will guarantee the security and security of every citizen of KIM, as an autonomous province, which is defined by our Constitution itself. In that name, once again, we will support the declaration and call on all the MPs, regardless of political acuity or regardless of political belonging, to send this act a clear message to the people tonight, which is that despite all the inequalities, we are yet unique in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59181	Thank you, Mr. Dujovic. I give my word to the People's Messenger Sasa Milenic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59182	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable President and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, my littleness and the Party Together for the Forest fully appreciates all the views of the Government within the framework of the KIM policy and, of course, the text of the declaration in question that we see as its natural conjecture. Of course, it does not only the Party Together for the Forest, but, you have heard from previous exhibitions, an integrated and agreed parliamentary group of the URS. This session and the act of debate on the declaration itself are seen as a need to emphasize, it is an emphasis on one critical moment and its crisis character, that, as Mr Stefanovic and Mr Jeremic said, try to make every effort to bind international public attention to the KIM problem, and in the context of the dialogueal intentions we have. What's beyond that is ambition to establish a single national policy on this matter. Of course, these problems, such as the current moment in which this declaration occurs, are the consequences of the fact that Serbia does not have a single national policy for a whole century. This happens to communities that allow themselves such luxury to survive for a century without political coordinates and attitudes that are above the variable epochal coordinates of the personal or party government. The young Serbian democracy is just making a great historic job of creating a single suprarity political national policy and it is the right to be tempted to determine the question of KIM, but it is a challenge that must be accepted because of the fact that Serbia's national heritage is in the area and, of course, because of the fact of the Serb national community living in the area. In that sense, my word is based on a single exhibition that is too large for the rest of the time in this debate, so I'm going to divide it into a little bit of an example, as far as I have prepared, of those I would ask to read it in an integral way anyway. I can tell the other MPs that she has already been uploaded to the party's website Together for Shumadi –. In short, it may seem so unattractive because it is less about the problem itself, and more about speech and opinion, more about communication over this problem. It seems that this great importance of the KIM issue that cannot be overestimated is not in line with the ambition to take this methodical step back from the problem of speaking about the problem, because the opinion of course is a great civilizational potential of emancipation, but if it is lost in clichés and stereotypes, it can become exactly a factor of mugging. It seems that our usual speech about the KiM problem is so burdened with stereotypes and the structure of the clichés that it is already too rich with paradoxes, and insisting on such irrational contradictions does not lead anywhere in the long term, and at the daily level, it is a real damage. In that context, in the first step of rationalising the paradox, I would only mention two. Let's say, first of all, the greatest and most important paradox of sovereign non-recognition of independence. The paradoxical structure of such an attitude suggests that this non-recognition is based on Serbia's selfish national interests, i.e. on the selfish national interest of the majority Serb people. The facts, however, speak the opposite. If in one thought experiment we were hypothetically to assume that the Serbian recognition of KIM independence, but in the constitutional definition of Serbia, the state that guarantees the positions of all national minorities, of all peoples and of all religious communities, at that moment we would have, under one, the fact that in a population of up to 15 years, Serbs are no longer a majority people in Serbia, two, we would have the fact that Serbia, who otherwise has problems with organised crime, is now operating on the neck of the most organised mafia in Europe, under three, the fact that one quasi-market, actually ethnically and expansively motivated business of Albanian capital, suspected origin, would now operate on the entire territory of Serbia and, finally, we would have as a fourth fact that one third of the functions in the state of Serbia would have come to express its enemies and young Serbian democracy would only ask a question of time when in fact the prey of Albanian leadership would become a whole Serbia. So, I find it obvious that Serbia's non-recognition of KIM is not based on Serbia's selfish national interests. In fact, the paradox gene will also be sought in this work, because I am trying to present it, we find it in this completely wrong insistence on the issue of status, or sovereignty. Rigidity of the status reductionism of the KIM issue is actually what damages Serbia's interests. Serbia should, above all, insist on emancipating the Kosovo-Methohic problem, from the militant context and context of the security sector and its translation into the democratic political processes of the international community, in this sense Serbia should rename the KIM problem, because it is now suggesting the primary status issue by its spatial determination. Serbia should actually talk about the problem of human rights and civil society in KIM, and just one difficult civilization deficit is what is the basis for the approach of Serbian and government policy to solve the KIM problem, as communication of young, civil-oriented Serbian democracies with an ambience burdened by this civilization deficit is backed up with high risk. (President: Time. ) The shortest way to put it, a communicative approach that defines a platform of performances according to the KIM problem opens up opportunities for European policy on this issue... (President: I thank Mr Milenic. )......................................................................................................... most often placed as a contrast to the European definition on behalf of missed objectives and delusions hidden behind numerous paradoxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59183	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, you are required to provide me with normal working conditions and to address them, not to be walking around here what kind of MPs share some of their brochures and entertain the Assembly this day. Let's get back to the subject. There's been a conflict in the north of KIM these days. In fact, by the self-proclaimed government of the Republic of Kosovo, special forces were sent to disrupt peace and balance in the northern part of KIM. Why did that happen? It came because we had a government that in three years pulled a lot of bad ones, i.e. catastrophic moves that have caused and given strength and wings to self-proclaimed temporary institutions in Kosovo to do what they have done these days. To begin with, from the adoption of the SAA through the acceptance of Mission Eulex to be installed in the KIM space at the expense of the UMNIK mission, then through the International Court of Justice, through all those diplomatic defeats which Serbia has suffered in the last three years, thanks primarily to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Minister Vuk Jeremic, who has promised hills and valleys, and has suffered defeat over defeat on the diplomatic plan and thus undermined the interests of Serbia and the Serb people, especially Serbs in the KIM area. Today we propose one declaration and we call for four resolutions. However, no one mentions that resolution, the SMS resolution you proposed in the General Assembly on the basis of which all these things were happening, while denying the resolution adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Under the resolution, the text resolution adopted by the UN General Assembly reached an agreement on the negotiations, and these negotiations are the beginning of recognition of KIM independence. We're talking about some real situation. Now I would ask the prime minister who is not interested in the KIM problem – does the Serbian people have the right to their lives in KIM space in old Serbia? After the arrival of international forces in the KIM area after the bombing, problems were constantly happening, but Serbs in northern Kosovo and in the enclaves in KIM managed to survive. All that naked and heroic struggle that the Serbian people have had, you want to destroy through this mandate, to deny this struggle by the Serb people, to deny that the right of the Serbian people to live as their own. We're not looking for anything but that minimum, which is to own our local self-governments in the KIM area, that within these local self-government we have the right to a minimum of police forces, to health care, to education. All of this you want to deny us through your quasi agreements with Pristina and through one single goal – Europe has no alternative. You want to sell your own people for a trip to some future, some virtual future that will never be, that you'll never get to. You sacrifice the Serb people at KIM for the alleged improvement of the Serbian people in Serbia. Is the Serbian people in Serbia better under your authority? Normally, it's worse and worse, whether they live in Kosovo Mitrovica or in the Kingdom, Kragujevac or Belgrade. It is simply an unsustainable situation, and I hope that the next elections will bring about a change in the political situation in Serbia, to stop this nudity and this humiliation of the Serbian people. We've been listening to all your comments here, and you always want to point out that we can't live together on Kim. We can live and live together, an example of this is Kosovo Mitrovica. In Kosovo, Mitrovica live both Serbs and Shipari and Roma and Turks and Bosniaks, all together in one city and no one disturbs anyone. Only there are no Serbs in Pristina, no Serbs in Prizren, no Serbs in Peća and there is a multiethnic Kosovo. If we strive for such a multiethnic Kosovo, then even in northern Kosovo Mitrovica there will be no more Serbs. Why are you giving us away so we can survive in Kim's space? We're only looking for minimum minimums, which is that we live as our own on our own and that we have our own local self-government, that's guaranteed by all international rights. The same right that Shiptar has to say – I want to live in the state of Kosovo, the same right a Serb has to say – I want to live in the state of Serbia. Don't deny us that right. I remember here an MP who now sits and spoke seven or eight years ago - you can't watch, your eyes can't be against Belgrade, you have to look in Pristina. Well, we won't be looking, gentlemen, and we have nothing to look for in Pristina. In Pristina there are those of your Serbs. When I say yours, I mean the Serbs of Mr. President Boris Tadic, with his Serbian list. What have they done these days? Did they help the Serbs and the Serb people? No, they're not. They unanimously decided in the Kosovo Assembly to safeguard the territorial integrity and integrity of the state of Kosovo, with all MPs who made the list in the cabinet of state president Boris Tadic. There are other MPs. While nakeding the Serbian people, they walked here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I saw them and asked them -- what are you doing here, this is not the Kosovo Assembly, this is the Serbian Parliament. They were brought by the Secretary of State and received by the President of the Assembly. The government at the level, president of the Serbian Parliament, vice-president of the Kosovo Assembly. Fine, and they harass the Serb people in northern Kosovo in co-operation, normally, with all international organisations. What kind of cooperation is that? What is this disgrace and shame that these representatives operating in the state of Kosovo are walking freely here, and the Serbian people cannot cross today's border crossing? There's a humanitarian disaster coming up. If this lasts a day, two, three, they won't have enough food, they won't have enough bread, they won't have enough milk. He won't be able to transfer any patients to be treated. They won't have enough medicine to treat. There's no question here that you're holding our demagogy. We tried, we couldn't do anything. We want you to show us what we're going to do here to help overcome this situation. How do you unblock the administrative crossing of Brnjak and Jarinje? They had to unblock, the people must move. It's one basic right, the flow of goods and information, without any ban. Regardless of all the strength of the NATO Pact, they cannot behave without getting criticisms and messages from the entire normal humanity, and especially us here, who are obliged to protect the interests of the citizens of KIM. There were various statements here. Mr. Verko Stefanovic said he had the support of the Serb people with KIM, that unity was sought. Well, you have unity here, too, but to you it's unity one time. Use it, then step on it and do the opposite of what the Serb people from KIM are looking for. Why didn't you read the letter they sent you, which they brought to the session of all four municipalities in the north of KIM? They are clearly and loudly seeking what they desire. Here, the letter was sent to everyone, to the people, to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to the MPs with KIM, to the President of the Republic of Serbia, to the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, UNMIK, EULEX, the OSCE, the Security Council, the EU Office in Pristina, the Embassy of Russia and China in Belgrade. But you're just saying what pleases you and you're glad. They demand to distinguish themselves, to clearly state the role of Christopher Dell, the role of Peter Faith, the role of Miller in these events that were and to condemn such actions and such behaviours. This Eulex, where Mr. Vuk Jeremic persuaded the MPs that one solution was meant to make a better one, is now not to mention the mission. It is a shame to say that you brought this mission and that, with your blessing, it has come to the territory of the KIM area, and they normally do what they were assigned to do, which is to implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan, a plan that didn't pass even in this assembly, and it didn't pass in the UN Security Council, and it wasn't ratified anywhere. The only thing Mr. Marty Ahtisaari won for that plan was the Nobel Prize. This is why the Eulexa mission is doing, according to what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has rejected the plan as illegal and inapplicable to the state of Serbia. But you can only smile at it and point out how you tried everything, how you tried everything, and there is nothing left for the Serbian people, but to bend and turn to Pristina. The Serbian people will never agree, because the Serb people from the north of KIM have declared Putin an honorary citizen of northern KIM and those Serbs with Russian Federation Prime Minister Vladimir Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovic Putin will be able to overcome this government and this disgrace these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59185	The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Smiljana Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59186	President-in-Office of the Republic, Prime Minister, honourable ministers, National Assembly presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have spoken in this House many times about the situation at KIM and I've always had a lot of optimism. Unfortunately, my exposure today will not be like the departure of joy because the situation in northern Kosovo is the most difficult from 1999 to today. It is unimaginable that in the 21st-century civilised democratic world, the Serb population fears and fights for a naked existence. Serbs in KIM don't sleep peacefully for 12 years, and this week they don't sleep at all. Although Serbs are well self-organised in northern Kosovo, I must tell you that Serbs expect great support from Serbia and that makes them both strong and awake because they do not want to live in an environment in which human organs are perfectly acceptable. The barricades that set up both fear and hope to stop artificial integration into independent Kosovo. In recent days, I have spoken with many citizens from Zvecan and Kosovo Mitrovica, with neighbors, relatives, friends, intellectuals, local politicians. The good news is that Serbs are unique and determined not to let a 12-year fight fall into the water. We're all on the same barricades, with the same assignment. We fight with democratic, legitimate means, providing passive resistance by blocking our bodies' roads. After this session, I immediately return to KIM to be with my people, and I am sure that all MPs, including Mr Kragovic, will do the same. If we learned anything from the democratic world, we learned how to provide democratic resistance in things we agree to disagree with. Something that Western democracies spend millions on the campaign to get their citizens' affection for this idea in Zvecan and the environment was enough just one siren to remind all citizens of the saddest days, to animate us to understand the seriousness of the situation we are in, which is to sleep on, that today might be that day. So, we're headed for Vucitrn and Pristina, which the people would say, bears to the hole, we're already in front of our homes and we're not attacking anyone. I must stress that Mr. Stefanovic's presence is the head of the negotiating team, and that it is important in the north of KIM and that it is very helpful for people on the ground. At first, there were some difficult words, but all Serbs from the north of Kosovo today give him recognition. Today there is no party action in northern Kosovo, there is no personal animosities, and I am of the opinion that this assembly should learn from us. That is why I am not going to make any criticism today at the expense of the opposition, which also addressed the question of KIM and which took advantage of the opportunity to insult both the President of the Republic and members of the Government and the MPs. I will ask all of us, and critics in Serbia and the public in Pristina -- why did Hashim Thaci run away from the negotiating table if he gets after him? Why is he in a hurry and making hasty unilateral moves? It seems to me that he was scared of negotiations because agreed solutions, to be completely honest, even though they don't answer to Serbs, still things return to the status neutral terrain. That's why they moved the game to the field where Hashim Thaci is brilliant, where Serbs are persecuted and killed. After the resolution was adopted in the so-called To the Kosovo assembly, which poses a dangerous threat to Serbs in northern Kosovo, Albanians have been very quiet since that day, there is almost no statement. There is no need, fellow MPs, when some international representatives do the job for them. We in northern Kosovo are shocked by KFOR's decision to step out of a mandate entrusted to him and enter with the Kosovo government into such a dangerous adventure. I remind myself that two years ago in this house, I spoke affirmably of KFOR, asking the government's representatives to make efforts to avoid the situation of reducing KFOR members in enclaves, because they were then the only guarantee for Serbs to live there. Last year, the bishop of Theodosia was also in NATO and also asked not to reduce the number of KFOR members, because for 10 years monks have not been allowed without escort to go to the centre of Decan for flour. From this distance, I will not say that I was naive, because I am not starting with a warning that someone will not fulfil the mandate that is entrusted to him, because we in Serbia are fulfilling the international obligations that are expected of us. It is devastating that neither UNMIK nor the human rights organisations of the OSCE and the Council of Europe are advertised. I need to look back at the burning of the Jarinje crossing. It is incomprehensible to me that someone can think that this disastrous move, which has caused so much damage to the Serbian people, has been organised by the state. Fellow MPs, it is obvious that there are Serbs, unfortunately, who will play by the rules of Hashim Thaci. I'm going to do a crackdown, it's impossible not to notice that the events in northern Kosovo have not been reported at all by Serbs who are participating Kosovo's government. You're just about to threaten to leave the government. That's really sad. But what worries me the most is the fact that most people living in northern Kosovo, and not living in Serbia, whose properties and homes are the only thing they have, will rather stay and die at KIM than retire to Serbia, and all because they are taught by the experience of "Bleak" and "Storm". I hope we all realized how dramatic the situation is in KIM and therefore we must show both the high degree of responsibility and the National Assembly and the Government and the government and the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that today we will all be the first representatives of our people, and then we will be representatives of the parties. It is very important that this declaration, which gives broad authority to the government in the adoption of concrete measures to protect Serbs and non-Albanians in KIM, gets the support of all MPs of this parliament. In this way, we send a clear message to all both the international community and Pristina, and most importantly to the Serbs at KIM that Serbia is with them, that they are not alone, that they will defend them by all democratic, legitimate means, because KIM considers them part of its territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59187	Thank you. National MP Boris Aleksic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59188	Thank you, Madam President, I think, however, because of the seriousness of the topic that you should have warned Minister Sutanovac and Markovic 10-15 minutes ago to stop playing on the tablet, to play games and to pay attention to what the MPs say. After a statement from some people... (President: Please be objective for the public and not make such jokes. I am objective, pay attention to what they do with the tablet and how they play games. (President:You are not objective. I've been paying attention, and you're wrong. I'm right. So it's time to remind ourselves of the seriousness of the subject and of what we're here for today. The largest ghetto in Europe is currently KiM. The greatest ghetto for Serbs. The ghetto was created, starting on June 25th, the NATO Pact, the US and the EU. Your partners, your allies and friends. They shut down all the KIMs, their representatives said they would shoot at people carrying drugs, food, water on KIM. It's a theme of all themes today, but as it all began. You say June 25th. No, it began 20 days earlier with a statement by the president of the state of Boris Tadic. As the agencies transferred, Boris Tadic said that large Albania is acceptable to Serbia i.e. that the thing that Serbia can live with is if there is an agreement. It was transferred by Beta on June 5th and by other agencies. It only took 20 days for Shiptar terrorists, murderers, human organs dealers to show on the ground that they understood Boris Tadic's message. They have committed aggression to the north of Kosovo and Metohija, transported by Croatian helicopters to KFOR, tried to take over the administrative crossings. That's how it started. Information needs to be examined that the US, Italy, France, Great Britain, Germany, NATO, as well as Boris Tadic's cabinet were notified in advance. Unfortunately, there is no Minister Dacic, I would ask him if he knows who the man behind President Boris Tadic is. Mr. Jovan Ratkovic, who before the start of the SRJ aggression, brought an agreement from the US Embassy in 1999 on the financing of resistance to a resistance meeting held at the DS headquarters in Belgrade. Not directly before the beginning of the aggression on SRJ in 1999. So what are you people talking about? What kind of politics are you running? So your policy is the policy of the United States, the policy of the Pentagon, the policy of those who broke up the SFRY, who committed genocide against the Serbian people and who bring business to an end today. By the way, if there is no confusion since you mentioned the International Court of Justice, have at least so much courage to say that the International Court of Justice has reformed the issue referred to him by the Republic of Serbia and provided an answer, that the declaration, therefore, that the formal act brought by the Cypriot separatists is not incompatible with international law. So, I'm an act of declaration, not an act of declaration of independence, that's two different things. First you tabled a proposal for a declaration, and then you started diversifying that proposal to your amendments. A proposal has arrived from a representative of the DS MPs, where points 5 under point B is changing, so it says that the EU is also involved in mediation. Pay attention to that political oxymoron. Your mediator in the negotiations because Robert Cooper, former war criminal advisor Tony Blair, the man who wrote the book, the breaking of nations, the breaking of states, who openly in his 2002 work and in this book states that the West should apply double standards in foreign policy. You take such a man as a middleman. What's he expecting? For Serbs, you're talking about Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija saying they're hooligans, they're criminals, they're extremists. Who started that question? Who started the fight? Who committed the former Yugoslavia crime against peace? Who in this case attacked northern Kosovo? Ship's terrorists. You're negotiating with people Dick Marty identified as human organs dealers. What do you expect from human organs dealers? What do you expect from a drug dealer? What do you expect from a NATO pact dealing drugs in Europe through Shipatarian terrorists? 95% of the world's heroin production has come from Afghanistan since the Americans occupied Afghanistan. You run a drug lord's policy. In your declaration you say in point 2 - neutral frameworks of Resolution 1244 are broken. I don't know how you spread that Resolution 1244 is neutral. Status neutral. Resolution 1244 explicitly states that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. As also stated in Resolution 1160, 1199, 1203 all resolutions from 1998. So the status is clear. The variant mentioned in Resolution 1244 of the improved status concerns KIM autonomy within Serbia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, i.e. her legal follower of the Republic of Serbia. Why are you going to the water with the Shiptarian terrorists and the Separatists? The negotiations you are conducting are an actual recognition of KIM's independence, but they are more than that. Is there anything more? Now you'll hear. In the agreement, the media published, which you concluded on July 2nd, Borislav Stefanovic. Among other things, the word "border" is mentioned in the bracket. Under the agreements, residents of each party should be able to travel freely within or across the territory of the other party. Territory, first element of statehood. The agreement sets out the rights of the citizens of both sides. Population, second element of statehood. Each side will take all measures to allow citizens of the other side to travel uninterrupted across and through the territory of the other side using driver's licenses. The use of the term "side" can be linked to central government, which is the third element of statehood. All three elements you've admitted to the Shiptarian Separatists. But what's worse is what you've done. You made it possible for the Shiptarians to change the name and citizenship of Serbs in the personal documents they issue, and you admit it. If you recognize the documents, you recognize the institution that issues it. So they throw out ic, leave it and leave it in. Thus they violently change the ethnic picture of the southern Serbian province. What is it, Mr. Stefanovic? It's a crime against humanity. Violently changing an ethnic picture and supporting one group, to the detriment of another group, is a crime against humanity. Here's the part that you're going to answer for because it's out of date. Also President Tadic. However, the DS would not have gone without their allies, with whom they set out to destroy the largest opposition party in 2008, the largest patriotic party of the SRS. It is Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, "Trojan Horse" DS. In 2007, the Foreign Relations Council announced that America must prepare for the arrival of radicals to power. That's when the U.S. Co-operation Network and the British Co-operation Network came into play, so Mr. Ratkovic wouldn't be offended. They began to persecute everything that is Serbian in the Republic of Serbia, all patriotic parties, all patriotic organisations. You destroyed the army to the end and, of course, it was your first task to do that dirty job for the Americans before the actual surrender of KIM. So it would be absolutely impossible for you to do this dirty job without the support of Nikolic and Vukic who gave you the opportunity to break up the largest opposition and the patriotic party. They've adopted your principles. Principles of movement towards the EU and the principles of turn towards the United States, their policy. It is the unification of society, the political scene of Serbia. Euro-Atlantic integration has no alternative. This led to this crime against the Serbian state and the Serb people. Gentlemen, get smart. Read the Constitution again. Look at you in the mirror. You'll see who you are and what you are. You represent this nation and this country and you must defend it as it says in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59189	MP Dejan Mirovic. Your task force has 18 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59190	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, this is your speech from a year ago. We studied him carefully. You haven't said anything concrete about what our strategy is. What are we gonna do for a long time? I am taking this opportunity before the citizens of Serbia, in front of the Assembly, to ask you specifically and ask you to answer me specifically, because I assume you will be the last speaker. What are you going to do if someone, I'm not going to tell NATO the pact, I'm not going to tell the Americans, but someone is attacking Kosovo Mitrovica? Please give me a concrete answer to that question. Second question. What will you do if the European Council, in accordance with the Lisbon Treaty, as you are engaged in the EU, and this is your primary goal of your policy, what will you do if the European Council adopts, in accordance with the Lisbon Treaty, with a blocking minority that is six, and you know that only five countries will not recognise Kosovo, a decision that is a condition for Serbia's integration into the EU, to recognise KIM as an independent state? Please give me a concrete answer to that question. We also express the surprise that it is possible not to protect your foreign minister from France, Great Britain and the United States, but rather to humiliate him personally, rather than the state of Serbia. Is it possible that you just can't stand behind someone who's obviously, because maybe he's doing a good job or not doing a good job, I'm not getting into it, and they hate your friends from America, Britain and France. So, it's so obvious that even we in opposition have eyes. Also, I think it's unserious, yet you're the President of the Republic, to speak from diplomatic, from political, however you want perspectives, to say that the American ambassador to KIM, so-called. The American ambassador, he was against our position, and apparently Merlin Warlich is our friend. You'll admit, Mr. President, that this is about an unserious finding. We will not say that you should accept our views, and we believe that Americans are our enemies, the American administration, for 20 years. Of course, I do not expect you to go to the end as Slobodan Milosevic, to die for Kosovo, or to be a Vojislav Seselj for nine years for defending Serbian national interests in a political court. However, it takes a kind of seriousness and a kind of political thoughtfulness, because you are still the president of the Republic of Serbia, which is still the strongest state in the Balkans, although humiliated by the extradition of General Mladic, Hadzic and all other Serbian heroes, although stolen by so-called. A friend from the EU, actually, of the liquids that have 75% of the banks here. He had the biggest interest in Europe. However, compared to BiH, Croatia, Montenegro, Macedonia, all those countries, the quasi state, however you wish to apologize to, you must show one kind of dignity and one kind of determination. We won't cause you any trouble if you do. Please, reality is next. I say again, for 20 years, there has been a policy that aims to destroy Serbia... . (President: Mr Mirovic, without speaking slightly to the President, but to Parliament and to respect the Rules of Procedure. I think the president will simply have the final word and last year we listened carefully, nothing was offensive, these are well-intentioned remarks, well-intentioned advice, so see if you want national unity, you should also hear a constructive criticism. Of course, last year we heard from the president that the SRS is offering no alternative, that we are not offering an alternative in the sense that our idea that Serbia should be a member of the ODKB, that it is unrealistic that Russia is far away, etc. We know, Mr. President, that from Mr. Boris Grizzlov, President of the Russian Duma, a letter came, an invitation for the Republic of Serbia to be an associate member, an observer of the ODKB. That letter is with Mr. Micunović and you know it. And they know everyone and all the diplomats who passed it on to you. What happened to that letter? Do you not have enough political courage and constructiveity that if you already have one hostile situation on one side, an enemy policy to try at least to be an observer of an organisation that you will admit has a perspective and power and force to protect us from those who are trying to tear up part of Serbia and the question is whether it will stop. Also, I want to ask the question to the public of the Republic of Serbia is it true that you changed the declaration from last year to the UN because your Western friends told you there will be a riot in Sandzak, there will be an attack on Kosovo Mitrovica and the IMF will withdraw the arrangement with Serbia? Please give me a concrete answer to two questions. If so, it's terrible. If so, it means that you are facing one colonial policy, with one policy and blackmail that has no end regardless of who is in power, whether you are, whether tomorrow Vojislav Seselj or whether someone else will be in power. So please give me a concrete answer to these questions. If you start to think something has no alternative, then it can't do you any good. Politically, economically in any other sense. Have you considered specifically what will happen if the policy that the EU has no alternative, if co-operation with the IMF, that co-operation with the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Development Bank leads to Serbia's collapse in economic, political and other terms. Have you thought about it, do you have an analysis, do you have a strategy in that case? I'm also responsible for saying that you don't have an SRS. And it's not serious behavior, and it's not the kind of behavior that suits the president of the state, and it's the kind of institution that needs to take care of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's also very strange, and that's what we're noticing. We are doing an analysis of your foreign policy and internal policy, of course, how is it possible that there is a kind of disagreement between you and the foreign minister? How could it be that after six months you came to his stance from Budapest in March this year that Serbia will not enter the EU if Kosovo is a condition? Until then, he has suffered criticism precisely from your side, so there is one disagreement, there is one misunderstanding that leads to, leads to foreign policy, whether there are more foreign policies, and that concerns us as a state-run party that thinks primarily about the national interests of the Republic of Serbia. Also, we consider that and we clearly want to say that it is harmful to negotiate with the so-called. Kosovo. You give them legitimacy. We know that you have been ordered by the EU or blackmailed or whatever you want to prepare a co-operation plan between the two Germans, between East and West Germany. Which means there's everything but confession, it's not good. That's not good. And you have to return this whole process to the UN, you have to break up with one practice of unpleasant surprises for our Russian partners, as you did last year when only in one day you changed your mind about the UN resolution. And instead of having agreed on the text as agreed with the Russian Federation, we know that, you are because of the pressure of the EU, or I don't know why the second one in one day changed your mind about that resolution, you caused some kind of mistrust by our partners. These are our real partners, and therefore we urge you to behave in a state-of-the-art manner and to show one seriousness and to answer me specifically all these questions that I have asked. So take this as a well-intentioned criticism, although we disagree with your policy, we do not agree with the extradition of The Hague, we do not agree that the EU has no alternative, but in this case when KiM's fate hangs in the balance, literally, we will not make any party interests, we will not put them above the general interests. Therefore, the least you can do is answer my questions specifically in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in front of this assembly and in front of all the people in KIM and in front of all those watching this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59191	The word is by MP Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59192	Dear President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament. What to say after everything that's happened and in front of the fears what else can happen to us and us to happen. Especially for friends like this and other things like that. international communities more precisely that part of the world that calls itself democratic. Can anyone in this country who thinks they can find a purpose and justification and, unfortunately, for the very existence of the Security Council, even the UN itself. How else, apart from violence, terror and lawlessness to characterise the will or will of three permanent members of the SB not to allow a debate on the situation at KIM, why such an SB, why such a UN. It may have been expected, as I am not surprised by the continuation of violence against Serbia, especially after last year's decision, so-called. an international court of justice which, no doubt, has made it clear to all of us political, not a legal decision, and to us a verdict. As part of this view, I can't help but ask myself and you, does anyone remember what UNMIK was, is he somewhere, advertised, how he acted during this week in this crisis situation? I don't think there's any answer anywhere. Do we remember Resolution 1244, more precisely, questions about who else in the world, especially from the powers and rulers of the world, respects and respects and affirms this document? Do we remember the arrival, that is, the way and the legal basis of the Eulex mission and the famous sixprincipals, and what do we have today? Do we remember everything that followed KFOR and its engagement in the past 12 years and what they are and what they are not responsible for, and now they are even competent to serve so-called. Kosovo's government, if they were to conquer Serbian territories and obey the insubordination of the Serb people at all costs, with fire and sword, would be said. Here's what they're not responsible for, they're not powerful, they're not responsible, with a note that they're doing nothing different than what they were doing in 1998 and 1999 when the NATO Pact was an air wing and all the logistics of the UCK. One, they are not in charge of persecuting several hundred thousand Serbs and non-Albanians with KIM during 1999. Let's remember General Jackson, look at the wonders and he's a British man who directly expelled Serbs from Pristina, Kosovo fields, Vučitrn, etc. Two, for the killed Serbs in the village of Staro Gracko, there were 14, they wanted grain, for the planted explosion under the Nisexpress bus, the place of Livadica near Podujev, for the innocently injured and died that day, for the killed children from Gorazdevac, they should remind anyone of that, for the murdered couple Stolic from Obilić, for the pogrom on March 17th, for the tens of the victims of that day, thousands of displaced by KFOR because he couldn't defend, protect and protect them, and what could he do? So, for dozens or nearly hundreds of destroyed and destroyed Serbian churches, hundreds destroyed that even a trail of Serb cemeteries all over KIM, tens of thousands of usurped houses and apartments and other private property, for the famous "Yellow House", even for it are not competent, they will not be able to and all in the circle, and everyone in the world knows what was done there and what monstrous actions were done there. You all know what powerful world forces are doing over and over again and never let a serious investigation be done and the monsters respond. You'd say criminals know each other, and the question remains whose crime is it? What remains after so many examples and questions? Is there anyone who really has a dilemma about what a function, role and task is and would say status neutral missions and its protagonists? Of course, there is no dilemma, there is no "n" of neutrality. But there are questions for us. It is for all of us who represent the state of Serbia or are in any way involved in all political events, and primarily in those related to KIM. The first question is, does anyone remember the story of the seven rods and their breaking? Are we aware of how and how divided we are, fragmented, fragmented, partial interests led and sometimes irrational vanitys? Is there an end to that? How long and why all this? Do those who exercise power and have power, I mean for a little longer period of time, have an interest in uniting and organising or sharing and arguing? I'm not sure, I wouldn't have sworn it was always positive and constructive. The second question, and that's the impression I've been wearing for years, is who in this country deals with KIM? There were bodies, forums or organs where something serious could be said, concluded or made a decision? I'm afraid he's been gone a long time, and I'm afraid it's not an accident that he doesn't. Unfortunately, those who, as someone or something, should do so do not do so recently. Don't just say that the coordination center, which was originally wrongly planted for all sorts of things, has been used and abused, and so has its follower, i.e. The kiM ministry was you. Unfortunately, they never did, no matter who was in charge. The third question, and it's very serious, is that when someone has to answer it, it's about Serbs and non-Albanians, members of the Kosovo police service. It is known that the decision was made after the illegal declaration of the so-called so-called so-called ". Kosovo statehood, that Serbs and non-Albanians step out of KPS and do not accept the chain of command from the so-called. The Kosovo MUP. The question is, when did it last, who sent Serbs over the bridge again, sent them to the Kosovo MUP in, say Bajram Rexhepi's hug? This unfortunate integration starts and creates very serious problems in KIM, especially in its northern part. Just another sensitive and painful question -- how long and what about taking wages from Pristina? Will we continue to tolerate and encourage such behavior? Not to forget to mix with Kosovo institutions and their international sponsors in a tender, often unnecessary and fictional. Is there an end to that? Are we in control or are we just going to be surprised and excavate? After all, the question remains what do you do now, what do you do now, how do you continue to fight and ultimately fight for survival for the right to live? If we look at our experiences, at least those of us who have survived all of this on KIM, one thing is clear – Serbs will never agree to what is now being imposed on them, at least not voluntarily. Of course, they demand and expect help from their country, and there is no dispute, one, the only Serbia. I think that's legitimate, too. Although very often they remember briefly, they know of statements by all irrelevant politicians, that they will never accept blackmailing EU membership for the sake of giving up KIM. They hope that no one, God forbid, has changed that attitude. Serbs with KIM expect more serious and organised work on KIM and around KIM. They also expect the inclusion of more relevant individuals and institutions in all of this. They know there's not much of us, unfortunately, and it's not time for vanity and division, especially if power and power promote them. So we need wisdom, determination and firmness to endure everything in not accepting imposed and unilateral solutions, and I repeat, much more work and organization, creative solutions, to improve daily life and survival of the Serb community in the area of KIM. Times are hard, the situation is serious, and the challenges are great. I'm free and something personal to add to all of this. Don't mind if this speech was emotional, perhaps undiplomatic, too open and direct, but this is said by a man who on the first day of 1999 stepped on the bumper and got a lot over his head, who got into all of this so he could survive on his hearth, of course, with his countrymen and all the loyal citizens, who have only one country, our dear Serbia. I'm not saying this to get my next term, or any function, but to tell my countrymen and my fellow citizens first and foremost that I will always be where I am now, far away, in 1999. So, with you, dear friends, along with you, where we speak our most full mouths – the cry of Serbia and we will fight to spend most of our time and stay on our kiM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59193	Thank you. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59194	Mrs. Dejanovic, how much time does this anti-European have? (President: eight minutes and 10 seconds. Thank you very much. Be still, I don't want to remind you of what I've been telling you for years, when you're breaking into Europe and the NATO Pact to do great damage, but today we've had a unique opportunity, in this room there were two medals. Once a few days ago, they gave him a medal, they haven't even given him a medal yet, and these UHHs, as you call them, put on their uniforms and headed for the border crossings. He's spoiling a man's celebration, and he's supposed to get a reward. A little while ago, there was a Bambino, and he got the same for the Europeans. So when Europe gives you medals, then you've done something. Here's what you've done. It's on its way - our friends from the NATO Pact and the EU will be on KIM. So what happened to those friends of yours? You gave up on me. Is the one for one-time use at the end? Not to repeat what my colleagues have been saying, today you have imagined a session where you would prevent the sun and the fall of your popularity and to warn some really unexpected events, and today you have announced that this looks like a storm, a flash, etc. How can we trust you? There he is, Goran Bogdanovic, the first Serb to be in charge of agriculture in the government of Barack Rexhepi. Now the average Serb wonders whether he was paid more by at least Rexhepi or Boris Tadic? Smile, you smile, I always lift my finger. (President: Please do not address the Minister, address the MPs and parliament. I'm talking to you, Mrs. Djukic, just you. I look at you like an icon. I don't look at you at all. Where can I look? Excuse me, you're much nicer than the others, I have to speak to you. Then we have this one up to Jelena Trivan, too, here, I'm looking at you, ma'am, in 2000 bringing money to the bags of the American embassy, to get these to power. Now I don't know who to trust here. (President: Please, you cannot insult the minister. I'd just like to remind you, I'll be forced to impose sanctions. All right, you go ahead, Mrs. Djukic, there's no problem. He's not a minister yet, you're not informed. We have those who said they'd cut their hands, we've got everything there, but that the citizens know. What about local government in KIM territory in Serb municipalities? Who's there in power? In 2009, you cancelled your mandates, refused to pay your salaries, and then you set off with the yellow sheep to provide the majority, to calm the Serb people in KIM, pending a decision by the International Court of Justice on July 22nd last year. So you changed resolutions. Last year I warned you about the customs stamp. So a month ago, you went to France to negotiate a customs seal. So I warned you on September 5th or 4th 2008 about the SAA, you remember the day that the amendment made a man 58 years old and I started thinking. This is the results of policies led by pro-European parties, found by parties. Of course, we don't want to let anyone down. We want to demonstrate unity, but not with the amendment to Jelena Trivan, under the auspices of the EU. No, the EU is taking KIM from us, and you can see they're still preparing to your Dorcool. Thanks to you, we have learned the true truth about the EU and NATO Pact. Ninety percent of citizens do not want to hear about the NATO Pact, 80% do not want to hear about the EU. How many more days are you in power? The problem with the United States, Great Britain, the NATO Pact and the EU is to find an insider who will confess. They know very well that violence cannot be a permanent solution. They won't have international confessions. We need an insider, if he doesn't want this one, he's getting ready for the other one. And that's the point and that's what every Serb needs to learn. Remember, the Serbian people did not defend themselves in Knin, did not defend themselves in Pristina, he was always defending himself in Belgrade by democratic means. Well, you see, according to the KIM situation, whoever's in power is not responding to the EU and NATO pact, the UK. You can do whatever you want, you can make out with whatever you want, you can strip all you want. You're exhausted. It's a backup. Until a month ago you had the opportunity to change your policy by 180 degrees and this is what happened these days prematurely, a month in advance, and the government knows, the leadership knows, agreed and then will jump one of the decorated and say – we cannot defend Kosovo within Serbia from you Serbs from KIM territory. That's why the statements - patriots are on barricades, drug addicts, criminals, etc. You know what reality is? When in the clan's division in KIM, the Shipari stops at some crossing of a drug dealer, he flees to the Serbian side because he is protected. You have forgotten that there is another transition where Serbia controls what goes in, but you do not care, to cover this situation, to frame independent Kosovo, to develop good neighbourly relations with it, since this is a condition for the EU, to pick up Josipovic sending his helicopters, to transfer it there. You didn't want Eulex, to discuss Eulex in 2008. You say - the Presidential Letter of the Council allowed Euelex to arrive. And in the name of what it is -- strengthening the institutions of the rule of law of the future independent Kosovo. It's an empty story, but it's a weak comfort for all of us. Your policy is disastrously wrong and we are taking the opportunity today to tell all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so you've come from the wrong terms yet. Absolutely the wrong ones, so you just got bit by Ciric, so now Dragisa Djokovic bit you, so Stojanka bit you, so we don't know if she's boasting, whether she's going anywhere. What's to brag about, and what's to say? Where Boris Tadic's policy, decorated, was decorated by the European Union, but take care of it, there is something that is for single use, and when it is pierced, someone gets dirty. Take care of it. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia learn a lesson. There is no blank trust in those who share yellow sheep, those who prepare to cross your will. That's why they organized this session today. If they wanted to go early, they'd have listened to the opposition's voice. Funny stuff's in here. Says – The government proposes, Mirko Cvetkovic... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Just a second. The National Assembly, which is 126, is that these 126 commit the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and we should be complicit in that. She was playing cat.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59195	Please don't disturb the speaker. Time's up. The word has the People's MP, Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59196	Since the basic issue today is not a question of responsibility to the government but a question of preserving Kosovo, it was equally inappropriate for us to passionately attack each other, but also to close our eyes to the fact that this authority led to an extremely secretive or, in order to translate it ourselves, a non-transparent policy on Kosovo by keeping both the public of Serbia and the Assembly as the most legislative body in Serbia on the side, except when it comes to the deadlock itself and when it was necessary to share responsibility for the consequences of the wrong decisions with the legal representatives of the people. If we know that political irresponsibility is not only about doing evil, but also about doing good, I can't help but figure out how the government practically disproved the Assembly to mention them, let alone discuss the issues of our southern province. Since the beginning of this call, it means three years ago, only once, almost a year ago, on July 26th 2010, at the government's request, we spoke about KIM issues. The working title of the session, again motivated by the division of responsibility for the wrong actions taken by the authorities, was a proposal for a decision by the National Assembly on the opinion of the international court of law on the unilaterally declared independence of the provisional institutions of KIM and the continuation of the activities of the Republic of Serbia and the defence of its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Of course, we were not informed about the continuation of these activities, and five times we had the chance to ask the parliamentary questions that function as strictly controlled trains in line with our business opportunities. There's no minimum detour or punishment for a verbal delinquent. Should we have experienced a historic defeat of the state of Serbia and its people with such a leading defence of KIM in order for the friendly government in Serbia to remember that it is necessary to discuss Serbia in Serbia? Is it possible that the Serbian Parliament had no room to include the most important Serbian about KIM in the agenda of each session, in addition to the sets of European laws? Everything was more important, both sexual definition and gender change and chemical analysis of the hairs of the nationally motivated groups. It was just that we were still missing in the Assembly, and we started to analyze getting married to wedding ads, so we could pre-integrate with Europe. So, only really Kosovo had to wait. Save me, God of such friends, for the enemies I will take care of – it is quite right for the people of Serbia to conclude and say more – you do not defend us anymore. In practice, it turned out that after Karadzic and after Mladic and after Hadzic, the same -- Kosovo -- not as Kosovo and the EU, but as Kosovo for the EU -- came together. Without anyone's approval, although under the Constitution of the Serbian Parliament, decisions on important foreign policy issues have been made into the acceptance of Euelks as a result of Ahtisaari's plan, into an agreement on border co-operation, seeking an opinion with an extremely foolishly formulated issue, instead of a lawsuit against states that have applied legal violence, which was normally the introduction to the final negative opinion of the international court of justice. Not only did the lawsuit against the aggressors, but it also gave up on the concept of aggression, so today, in Serbia's defence ministry's legislation, you will read only as far as the bombing is concerned. Maybe soon they're trying to convince us that the bombing never happened. It has dropped the lawsuit against the states that have committed legal violence and moved on to an infancy position of seeking opinions from those who have committed violence whether we are right to consider ourselves a victim of violence. And we received the expected answer—you did not, for if you were sure that you were right, you would not have asked us to give you an opinion. The Brussels dialogue yielded disastrous results, as its goal was not to realistically improve the conditions of life in KIM, but to establish good neighbourly relations, which would lead to Serbia indirectly recognising Kosovo. No mumbling through talks that international community representatives would understand the authorities in Pristina if they gave up their aggressive efforts were not effective. It's not that, but it's not a fantasy about the Kosovo division. The government in Pristina has pulled the latest moves, an embargo on goods from Serbia and sending specialists to administrative crossings, with the blessing of Washington and Brussels making KFOR in its position. How could this be caused by successful negotiations that KFOR would break out of control and NATO would assume the role of special authority in Kosovo? In one sovereign state, NATO has formed a state in the already seen scenario of violence, legal violence, and yet again the order of the most sinister violence against the people at risk of all human rights. What is it called when NATO Special Forces declare two administrative crossings in one country for restricted zones? What is it called when these same peacemakers ban food and medicine supply for those who are forbidden to live themselves? It's called occupation, and negotiations on good neighbourly relations with occupiers can't be. If the director of the Serbian police guarantees protection to KFOR representatives, it would not be bad for someone to inform us who guarantees protection to the Serbian priest, Father Igor Djokic of Lipian, who probably provokes the mantium, Radiš Milenkovic from the village of Susica near Strpec and many others. The screenplay with hooligans who come by the tried-out cavalry method from American Western films has already been seen on Markalam, Račka, and wherever it was necessary for Serbs from the position of innocent victims to be translated into the position of genocide aggressors. You know, it's really hard for me to believe that the only culprit for escalating violence in the north of KiM is actually an American ambassador to Pristina, and to relieve any responsibility of a certain Biden, who was happily seen in Serbia, despite the continued labelling of our people as genocide. I agree with Tadic's finding that this session of the assembly should contribute to the calming of the situation, of course, on one condition only. To return Serbia's official policy to the UN Security Council Resolution 1244, to the UN Security Council, as the only relevant international factor in resolving the KIM issue, as well as to the Constitution of Serbia, which, of course, requires that the functioning of all political actors be in line with the province's standard as an inseparable part of the state of Serbia. I don't understand at all why you rejected the amendments to the opposition, and especially the proposal from the DSS colleagues, which is clearly and reasonedly explained in five points. What is the issue, that Serbia insists on opening new negotiations? You've been holding negotiations so successfully, we really need a new policy. A moment ago, the police minister or the first deputy prime minister said we needed a new policy, that Serbia adhered to the resolution of the National Assembly from 2005 to 2007. What's so controversial about that? To turn to international factors who are ready to support and support Serbia in various international activities, and I don't understand that, and to import with all the points mentioned here, establish an internal political consensus and a national unity whose guarantor and controller will be this assembly. It does not behave that way if we aim to make all internal differences and inter-party discussions aside. If we become aware that only in the community, which is above every single mutual interest, current rating or vain instrumentalism, we can restore dignity to Serbia and defend essential national state interests, then it should not be difficult, let alone impossible to finally gather and agree on one of the most fundamental and expensive words of Kosovo. Think about it one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59197	Eight minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has the word, and after him the Messenger of the people, Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59198	20 days ago in an interview in "Evening News" I said something that left me with a letter to the ambassadors of all EU member states, so I guess I'd be embarrassed. I said that if they made a condition for us to recognise the independence of KIM, to interrupt negotiations with the EU at that time, and that is someone from the media headquarters, who is the only one working in the ruling coalition, interpreted it as an opportunity to finally remain the ruling majority of the only one who can count that Europe will probably never cancel the support it has always given her. I have not heard from anyone in the ruling coalition that it is so, firstly, that it has ever been asked such a question, since it must not be asked to ask you, secondly, that you have answered explicitly the question - what is it about the time when you are EU membership, the EU has made it a condition for Serbia to accept the independence of KIM? I wish the President of the Republic, who will match this discussion, was his good manners, after which, of course, there will be no more debate, but, behold, I would like to know the position of the President of the Republic - is that about the unacceptable, independence of Kosovo, like when you don't like a meal and you have to eat, does that stand still? It is an interesting speech by Interior Minister Deputy Prime Minister Dacic, whom the president of the assembly did not warn when he called on the president of the Republic. If any of us in the opposition had said that, you would have been warned. But here, I would quote from the stenogram: "Here is the President of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic. Let him tell all of you, I call on him - what did the US representatives, the EU promise him, and when we accepted EULEX and when the UN General Assembly resolution was accepted, was it then said there would be no change in reality on the ground? "If, Mr. Tadic, under the impression of such promises, you accept everything that has happened in the last year in Serbia and in KIM, it is time for you to take responsibility for something, to no longer hide behind the incompetent government without hiding your incompetent government behind parliament. If you have directly decided to accept EULEX because you are told that the situation on the ground will not be changed, and now it has been changed, you have deceived Serbia, the whole Serbian public, and Serbs at KIM have put a great danger to the pogroms. When one mentions here from the MPs of President Tadic, he gets the reproach not to speak to him and to the MPs, not to the President of the Republic. I have a lot of patience, and I can endure and avoid this hall very often because it's where I'm expected to be embarrassed by the MPs you allow to say anything about me, Alexander Vukic, about SNS, you use them as gloves, not to get your hands dirty or anything else, not to get dirty. I'm just asking all of you who dare to talk about me at all, to know a few things about your life and about me as a man. For everything you say about me and what your president commands, I have an answer that I have never said a bad word about your president since I baptized him two grandkids. If he doesn't respect it, you should, as Serbs, respect it. On the other hand, in 2008, we had a debate here in that building, when I presented one of the reasons why we had a fight and said that in the presence of Dragan Todorovic, your president said that KIM was lost, you have in stenograms, in the replica, Dragan Todorovic said that he said that KIM had been kidnapped. Three years ago. What are you fighting for now, when you say you were kidnapped by KIM three years ago? So, if I could just recapture it once more, even though Mr. Pelevic, he deserved to talk about all this, to your soul this declaration. You wrote it yourself, you accepted some of the suggestions, the text was extremely bad. This is the first text in which I do not recognize Boris Tadic's handwriting. I think he let one of his associates write this, and those associates know nothing, except that the media is embarrassing SNS leaders. So you wrote it yourself, you fix it yourself, you don't, you don't want to fix it enough. Today, all day long, I openly told Mr. Jeremic that we were under the impression that tonight something was being prepared at the barricades. Fortunately, it doesn't seem to have anything to do with it. But I really expect KFOR to move on Serbian barricades as soon as possible. And you here call each other, look who gets out, look for sins from 10, 15 years ago, we'll all stay sinful for what happens in two or three days. Therefore, on behalf of this unity, it has not been achieved, but let's make it known, we will vote in favour of the proposal for this declaration. But I really think the time has come for those who lead Serbia, that those who propose to us in this assembly, to you, the majority who cannot refuse everything, none of what the government proposes, to one day take responsibility. It's not a responsibility from choice to choice. Responsible people feel when they've made a mistake before, when they've made a mistake, and how that mistake can be corrected. You've made a lot of mistakes. You've held a four-year term in force. The time will pass until the election whenever you decide to maintain it, but everything you do in those four years is worth every day, not the day you spend tens of millions of euros on the campaign. So let him accuse us of whatever anyone wants, but we've never voted against the declarations proposed by various governments in this assembly about KIM. We can't even be against it now. I just feel anxious and afraid that we've brushed our teeth today, and also young colleagues who dare to talk about me ugly and rudely for no reason at all, I recommend that they check to see if they've had a bath and if they've brushed their teeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59199	Eight minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Dragan Todorovic, two minutes, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59200	It's just amazing how someone has a short memory. He says that he never said anything ugly about Vojislav Seselj, and twice accused him of wanting to kill him. When it is found to be an absolute lie, it hides behind immunity. So much for honesty and so much for how anybody behaves. What are we fighting for? We are fighting to do everything we can to protect the interests of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. What are you fighting for, Tomislav Nikolic? You are now accusing Boris Tadic of the same boss because you care about their support. By 2008, you didn't fight for EU support. You fought for the support of the Serbian people. That's the difference between you and me. We are fighting for the support of the Serbian people, not the EU and those who have been destroying us for the past 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59201	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, right on line. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59202	We are all fighting for the support of Serbian citizens, only I fight successfully for this support. Unlike you who have long since known what censorship is in the elections you appear in. As for the charge of being ready for murder, I learned it from Boris Tadic, and you found out, it's not a secret for you, that's what I was talking about in the media, at a meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security, where you were confirmed by the Director of the Police and Director of the BIA. I've never been invited to any court for that, and I don't call myself immunity, nor will I call. I don't like suing people, otherwise I'd sue a lot of you. I'm telling all of you. I could sue a lot of you because you said a lot of insults on account of me and my family. I'm above it, I'm watching us beat the DS, and you're watching you look better than us, even if it's the rest of the DS 100 years in power. You're taking care of KIM, and you're not going to sign SNS, even if it's not about KIM. You can throw away the ugliest words in this room. You have the favor and support of those who hold the session. Why did you forget what we said to those who don't win votes? That you're very good, beautiful and smart, only the people don't want you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59203	National MP Dragan Todorovic has been reported, this concludes a round of replicas. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Interior Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59204	I would just like to comment, since Mr Nikolic mentioned me. When I talked about the promises of the international community, I talked about the un Sincereness of those promises and it goes on for many years. I will remind you that Richard Holbrooke, who was the US's authorised negotiator, Slobodan Milosevic, promised at the end of 1998 and 1999, even signed that the United States would never recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, urging him, which he then accepted to have a verification mission so-called. Oh, oh, oh, You also know well that after the bombing, the Kumanian Agreement and Resolution 1244, which also guaranteed the sovereignty of our country, followed by ten, eleven years later, of course, were forgotten. Also, when Eulex was accepted, there was talk of how many points were six? Six points, over time, these dots were somehow lost from political discourse. Also, and now it's no secret, I didn't mention President Tadic here to criticise him, but simply to make the public know it, I don't know how familiar it is, I think that it was also publicly said that Serbia entered the dialogue with one promise from EU representatives, and certainly the US administration, that while this dialogue is going on, there will be no change in the real situation on the ground, and that primarily means in northern Kosovo and Metohija. This speaks of the insincerity of the international community, or of some major forces in the international community, which we must surely consider as one reality because when our arguments are very strong at certain times, of course, they experience a struggle with those who have clear arguments of strength. From that point of view, it is some reality that we must remind the representatives of the international community because what this attempt is now in northern Kosovo, rather than an attempt to change, a violent change in the real situation on the ground, which is not in line with what was agreed when the dialogue began. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59205	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59206	Dear President, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this direct transmission, I would especially like to take advantage of these two minutes, so that we can all ask ourselves together what from today's discussion of people at barricades in northern Kosovo can conclude. The document will be voted by the vast majority of MPs, the document is called the Declaration. Does that mean that what's written in the Declaration will only be declarative, since here the Deputy Prime Minister was talking about the red line. I'm looking for a New Serbia parliamentary group, and I believe it's the only thing that interests our Serbs who are now in northern Kosovo, in barricades, Mr Dacic, where is this red line, what is this red line? Can you, Mr. President, if you can't, I can understand that, too, say where that red line is. Is that one dead Serb, five, ten, fifteen or twenty? When the state of Serbia, as the proposal says, will do everything it can. If we want to, we can do a lot of things. So I don't want to be understood here to call for violence, to war. I'm just asking the most well-intentioned. Where's the red line? Is that a direct threat to the life of Serbs in the north of KIM? If you can't tell here in a direct transmission, you'll tell the Security Council. Call the leaders of all parliamentary parties and tell them, and let someone pass it on to that poor people and those Serbs downstairs. From what I can see, I see great courage in these people. Let's not encourage them in vain, officers, ministers who rule by force in this country. Let's not give them hope in vain. That's why I'm asking you to tell me where that red line is? Where's the red line? I think that's the most important question that in this superlative matter who will be patriotic, who will be declared a traitor, as a statesman. That's what you need to answer to this people in KIM, in the north, in barricades, tonight they're watching and listening. Where's the red line, gentlemen, brothers and sisters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59207	National MP Borislav Pelevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59208	Madam President, Mr. President of Serbia, gentlemen of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues. The government has long avoided having this assembly hold a session dedicated to KIM. Even Parliament Speaker Djukic-Dejanovic said just two days ago that such a session is not necessary, that trust should be given to the negotiating team and that the government has a good platform to address the situation at KIM. It now seems to me that the government wants me to transfer responsibility for the KIM situation to the Serbian parliament by adopting this declaration. What is incomprehensible is that the declaration was so badly written that it was amazing that the Prime Minister could sign it. Imagine when the preamble in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 states that Serbia is afraid of a threat that threatens because Kosovo will unilaterally declare its independence. That's amazing. It happened a few years ago, either we live in different periods, or you allow some clerk to just prescribe a preamble from a declaration six years ago. It's really unacceptable. In addition, today I voted on the KIM Committee for this declaration not because it is good, not because of the government, but because of those poor people who are waiting for tanks and armored KFOR vehicles downstairs. I absolutely well-intentioned wish that, I am sorry that the president left for a moment, to draw attention to something that a good statesman should never say and say, and he said at the beginning of this crisis that Serbia would not war. Of course Serbia won't fight. We all know that, but the president of one country can't say that. He can say that Serbia does not want to fight. He must say that Serbia wants to protect its Serb citizens with KIM who are at risk at the moment as well as in 1999. No statesman in the world, no president would say such a thing because this sends the wrong message to Hashim Thaci, saying that they are free to attack because Serbia will not war. Serbia does not want to fight, but Serbia certainly wants to protect its citizens on KIM. That's what this is about and it's not good statements. The situation of KiM is very difficult. Make sure these people are watching this assembly downstairs. The Albanians are looking at KIM as well. Be assured that they are interested in every word of ours and that our indifference that we have shown on several occasions today is, indeed, deeply, deeply touching their hearts. They're asking us for unity, at least half the unity they've shown there these days. There are no more parties there. There's no partying there. There's only one game out there, Serbia. Let's show them some tonight that at least for tonight, at least for a moment our party Serbia. Let's forget about this mess and the shame that we've shown on occasion today, making fun of practically those people down there who are on the barricades, who are left to themselves. No police, no army to defend them. They defend themselves, but they defend us. It's not demagogy. It's really like that. We need to learn from them how to defend the state. We need both Serbs and Albanians downstairs to show very clearly that we will not leave the Serbs on KIM at large. So today, we from SNS are going to have this declaration, and we are ready to take responsibility for it, because we want to be unique for a moment and to fight for our people and for our territory, KIM. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59209	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59210	Madam Chairman, I am giving up the debate, since the president of my party and Mr. Pelevic spoke as well. We've been discussing it for a long time, and it's basically all said in front of the party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have been given the amendment, the text of the amendment of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I ask the motionary's representative, is this amendment acceptable to the government, or to you, Mr. President? Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59212	Thank you. I have reviewed the harmonised text of the declaration and, on behalf of the promoter, I would like to say that this amendment is acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59213	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before I conclude a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used the rights set out in Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I'm concluding a unique search. After we did a unique search, before... What? I'm sorry, Mr. Vuceta Toskovic, if he's answering for a word. I realized no one wants off the list anymore. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59214	I'm giving up the discussion after our president has said something about this declaration. So I'm giving up the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59215	Thank you. I will not say again what I have already said, that before I conclude a unique search, and Mr Velimir Ilic still wants. You have four minutes left, Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59216	Madam President, we stayed tonight, here is now a minute until 24:00 to resolve one important issue and I am extremely disappointed as a folk MP with the views of individual people from the ruling coalition, their discussions that they have raised today and I can say that this declaration has more support regardless of what the Government has from the opposition than from the position. There have been some discussions here that have disrupted a current that was extremely good and quality to help these people in the barricades that are down there tonight. I wouldn't want us to leave the gym tonight and say something without knowing what's gonna happen tomorrow. I'd like the Prime Minister to be clear and loud. Here in the declaration mentions Resolution 1244, mentioned the SB that brought it, that we stand firm behind what we have. Resolution 1244 that it's crucial, what if it's a peace force breach? What if they go after the Serbs at the barricades? What will Serbia do at that moment, what will the government do, what will key ministers do, what will the president do? We're going to adopt a declaration, not this is the first time, but I don't want it to remain a dead letter on paper and that all those who sit here today watching this session don't know what the moves will be if someone breaks the resolution of the SB, which has been passed and which must be respected by the international forces that are down there. Gentlemen, we've heard Eulexes was introduced to a small door. What are we going to do about Eulexa? And I want one question to clear up here tonight, if the international force, if EULEX protects the government from Pristina illegally in its efforts to implement its programme and project against the SB resolution, will negotiations with the EU continue, in what way and in what way? Are we going to swallow that too and say-let's move on? You must, gentlemen of the government, be clear and loud. It is a difficult question but you must take responsibility and leave this session tonight with clear opinions and clear opinions. I am very pleased to hear the opinion of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic, who has made very specific statements and said what he thinks. But the rest of you, say, what you think and what you're supposed to say here tonight and not break up, we've adopted a declaration, and you down there Serbs who are on barricades see what you're going to do with yourself and what you're going to get from this and what you can expect from tomorrow. This parliament must be clear and loud. The foreign minister must also take some responsibility, both the prime minister and the president, and we must all come out of here tonight with clear views. What Serbia does and what situation it reacts to and how it reacts. Whether negotiations will continue, will not continue, we will send down some people who will negotiate, someone will receive them, hold them down, hour, two, at the crossing, control, review, etc. When they meet them like that, friends, how they're about to welcome the people who sit on barricades and simply seek justice. Should this parliament ask for justice from international institutions, whether the EU must be very clear and loud about what else it wants from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59217	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. I ask the President of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic, does he want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59218	Madam President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it has been an honor for me to participate at least as a listener in the work of this session, and now I have the opportunity to address you after the discussions that were numerous and contentable, have had a strong argument, from time to time, if you allow me my assessment that discussion has also received a lot of emotional content. At the same time, I can finally conclude that the discussion was constructive and I believe that from this parliamentary session dedicated to the crisis in KIM, above all to the northern part of KIM. The Republic of Serbia can come out stronger in the time of crisis, with its decisions, declarative acts, expressing its political intentions. The most important task for Serbia today and in the past especially after the difficult and painful experiences of the 1990s is to ensure peace. A peaceful policy is the only policy that can bring about the legitimate interests of the Republic of Serbia and the Serb people. Only in terms of peace can a sustainable solution be found for KIM, for all other challenges we face in the Western Balkans area. The conflict in Kosovo has been going on for decades and, of course, this is not a novelty for any Serbian citizen. This conflict is not only national, our and Albanian, it is regional, it is global because the conflict carries numerous dangers, numerous precedents, and this conflict can cause chain conflicts in other parts of the world. So our responsibility isn't just national, it's not about the space we live in, it's about our responsibility being regional and if you want global. That is why this parliament, the Prime Minister and his government, the President of the Republic has an exceptional responsibility in a very troubled and difficult time. We need to find answers to this conflict and the denunciations of another conflict whose destructive fact we feel from day to day. If there are ten years of destruction in one space, then in ten years, unfortunately, nowhere in the world has such destruction made it bearable, it has always taken more time, unfortunately, more time for this destruction to get its rational form and that region, that part of the world, to move forward. We are making a great effort after political changes in Serbia in 2000, to rationalise the political situation, to make a turn in politics and to make all those instruments that have shown and led us to unsuccessful solutions, to change and to implement one policy after many years of unsuccessful attempts and to set up a policy that leads to positive solutions. I say once again, not only for Serbs, but also for representatives of all other peoples in the Western Balkans, because we live on each other, and here I think of all the peoples of the former Yugoslavia, but I also think of all the peoples of the Western Balkans and even of Southeastern Europe. We live in one indivisible space, it's one cultural space, it's one economic and security space, and all those who think it's possible to satisfy the conditions or legitimate interests of just one national group, and not think about it and the other, have the wrong set in politics, they don't know enough history. That's what I mean when it comes to policy actors in this area, but I also think about international actors. International factors are not immune from mistakes in policymaking and understanding the political legality of Western Balkan space. That's what I've talked about in the past days and in the past, but we can't solve the problems we face without the world. This is witnessed by the history of the entire Western Balkans and the entire history of the Western Balkans. So, we have to solve problems and that is, in a narrow sense, the purpose of politics. The purpose of politics is not to win the election, the purpose of politics is when you come to an opportunity to solve the problem, to attack it, to leave it behind and to move on, to create new space and new chances for people. There have been many speeches here in the parliamentary debate on winning the elections and who said what in the context of his own popularity. I think I can join those debaters who have found that this question KIM has not, nor has it been, nor will there ever be a stake in election campaigns. All who count on such an option in advance have condemned themselves in politics to failure, because the KiM problem is extremely complex and, I repeat again, it lasts more than a century, it affects both Serbs and Albanians, and it affects other peoples. I'm not going back to that conflict, I'm going to do a brief analysis of this last conflict that happened. I'm not talking about a historical conflict, I'm talking about a conflict in northern Kosovo. I will also answer the questions of the MPs. Some have had an accusing character, which is completely legitimate, you are MPs and you have every right to make numerous accusations. It's also part of political life and elsewhere in the world. On the other hand, I'll try to give your attention at a time that's ahead of us, because the most important thing is to see how we behave in the coming time. This latest dispute in northern Kosovo has more levels. On the surface, that's the problem with the customs stamp. The history of the KIM customs stamp has not been since yesterday, since yesterday, not since this year, not since this government. I remind you that Mr. Hacker, as the UN Secretary-General's special representative in 2001 in May, brought a constitutional framework, giving temporary institutions jurisdiction in the administration and operational management of customs services in the KIM area. I remind you it was the DOS government back then. At the time, Vojislav Kostunica was the president of the Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zoran Djindjic was prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. In 2004 The UNMIK regulation declares customs law in the KIM area. In 2004, elections have passed, a new coalition was established, when Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica was established. There was a government in which G17 plus, the SPO, New Serbia, were also some other parties that supported, as the SPS provided minority support to the government. Mr Zannier, as UNMIK's representative, UNMIK is an institution that has special significance during today's discussion, and the SRS has given special importance to UNMIK because it is the only guarantee of implementation of Resolution 1244 on KIM, Mr Zannier has given his view on the consent of the Pristina administration's proposal on the appearance of the customs stamp. All of you Members of Parliament, it does not depend on whether you are members of the SRS, LDP, New Serbia, DSS, SNS, DS, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, G17 plus, the SPS, not to forget someone, the Movement for the Forest, the PUPS, the minority party, the independent MPs, all of you consider Resolution 1244 to be the basis for leading Serbia's policies to the KIM. Now let's put the discussion back into gravity, because this situation is very serious. Serbian citizens listen to us today, our countrymen in KIM listen to us and they want me to direct these sentences, but the international public listens to us, because the question of KIM is an internationalised issue in the 1990s. After self-declaration of KIM independence, Kosovo administration, so-called The government of the Republic of Kosovo has declared its customs stamp. Prior to that, Serbia has become the signator of an international act, CEFT, a contract on practically free trade in the region, which has defined the appearance of the customs stamp for UNMIK Kosovo. The CEF is now being managed by UNMIK Kosovo, chaired by the institution, in which Serbia participates. It is a document confirmed by the Republic of Serbia, by the decision of the then government, by all decisions of the Republika Srpska Assembly. The discussion and dialogue on the appearance of the customs stamp is being conducted and it is the subject of a dialogue that monitors and where the role of mediators is played by the EU, the EU in the image of Mr Robert Cooper, because the EU decides on its representative in the dialogue, not Serbia. The EU has been delegated by the UN to intervene in this dialogue, and we are a member of the UN, to remind you of that fact. I believe that we will be in the future, because it is our interest and we cannot separate ourselves from the world, because in these circumstances we are losing the opportunity to defend our legitimate national interests. Meanwhile, the administration in Pristina is introducing an embargo on imports, under allegations of Serb goods in the KIM area. It is an act the government of the Republic of Serbia reacted to, above all, to the CEFT. The government of the Republic of Serbia, we have received information today, will look at the consistency of its reactions, regardless of what the CEFT's response will be. However, in addition to the embargo that is contrary to all European principles and values and against which Serbia has raised its word, some international institutions have shown understanding, more specifically individuals from international institutions, for the introduction of such an embargo. I want to say it openly here in front of you, because in front of the citizens of Serbia and the MPs, of course, there is nothing to hide. I consider the President of the Republic of Serbia to support the embargo on the transport of goods from central Serbia to KIM very harmful, contrary to the basic principles of the World Trade Organisation and the free market for the movement of goods and services, if you will, in the end and people. However, it was not enough for the Pristina administration, but the Pristina administration, meanwhile, in recent days took a unilaterally violent action by the Rosa special unit, which wanted to master the crossings on Brnjak and Jarinj. Serbia is currently responding, all institutions of the Republic of Serbia have reacted. So, if it hadn't been for that kind of reaction, this operation would have been a successful, successful one. I remind you that at first she was only partially successful, and later the members of the Rosu special unit were returned from those crossings, with the diplomatic activity of the Republic of Serbia and the strong action of all our institutions. This applies to one of these administrative crossings, and when it comes to the second crossing, they never got to that crossing. Citizens of Serbian nationality have blocked approaches to these administrative crossings. At that time, KFOR took action, which has its jurisdiction defined by a UN decision. KFOR has its responsibilities and the responsibilities of all international institutions should be respected in the KIM area. The competencies of these institutions are defined by a mandate that implies status neutrality. Under these circumstances, Serbia has also accepted all international acts and UN resolutions, and only in these circumstances will Serbia continue to address the KIM problem in a way that provides peace and stability for all citizens living in the KIM area in our southern province. It's a very difficult situation. It is dramatic, as any situation in the Western Balkans area can especially turn to violence with human victims. Unfortunately, there was already one victim after an uncontrollable special unit raided Ross. I have expressed regret over the Albanian sacrifice, and that is what I want in this parliament, in particular to say to the Serbian Parliament. We, in democratic Serbia, who respects every national identity, want to build peace and stability across the entire Western Balkans, not only in Serbia's space, and we especially want to build peace in our southern province and our policy is above all peaceful politics and it will remain a peaceful policy. In that context, ladies and gentlemen, when I say - Serbia will not wage war, I think I speak a sentence that every politician in Serbia should say to himself every morning. Every other sentence or questioning of this sentence is dangerous because it does not represent a struggle for peace, but also legitimateises war as a means of policymaking in the Western Balkans area. By any chance, if we were at another point in the world, I would consider this position of legitimateizing war as a means of leading politics one of the instruments and possibilities, but we are in the space of the Western Balkans, the former Yugoslavia where the war took hundreds of thousands of victims, where the war mutilated families, destroyed human lives. I join the majority of the people of the Western Balkans, the former Yugoslavia who believe deeply and want to work on that only peaceful policy is the policy of the future and that peace has no alternative whatsoever. With that policy, I went before Serbian citizens several times in the election process. I'm not talking about the election of ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about the legitimacy of a policy. Even if I did not want to, it is my duty to implement such a policy, because it has supported most Serbian citizens, and I think that you honourable MPs should be proud that the citizens of Serbia have supported such a peaceful policy. Today when I perform in international institutions it is my strongest argument – Serbia is a country of peace, Serbia wants peace for all peoples in the area of Southeast Europe and we want peace for all peoples, not just for Serbs, but for all other peoples. This is the central point of our policy. Dear fellow MPs, with respect for your position, I am talking about individual parliamentary groups, because that attitude is legitimate, politically legitimate, that peace has no alternative, it must have an alternative. I want to tell you that if Serbia were to implement such a policy, that it would at present give up the deepest and most legitimate national interests for its people, not only in KIM, but wherever the Serbian people live. Evidence of this is the practical experience we had in the '90s. We have to learn from those 90s, and that's another important message to you, the honourable MPs, and that's what I'm telling the citizens of Serbia, it's that we have to learn from the mistakes that have been made in our policy, our national policy in a decade of our existence. If we don't learn a lesson, we're going to relive extremely difficult historical moments, new generations will be punished again. Look at your children today, she and their lives will be above all burdened with great dangers unless we find a different solution to the trials we face. When you speak in the political arena, in the Serbian Parliament, honourable MPs, when you are brought by patriotic words, when you think that they sound strong and that you will get applause or support, always think about your child, about another child, what kind of future he has after those words, and whether you may have questioned his or her life in your political attitudes. Dear fellow Members of the People, let me now, together with you, if you allow me to do so, send a message to the Serbs in Kosovo. Serbs in Kosovo should know that the Serbian parliament, that the government of the Republic of Serbia, is with them. I, as president of the Republic of Serbia, am today and all these days and, if you will, all these years, if you will, and 90 years ago with them. We are with them because they are faced with serious temptations. The government of the Republic of Serbia has its representatives among Serbs in northern Kosovo, but I believe a special message should be sent to Serbs who do not live in northern Kosovo at the moment. Our policy towards Serbs in Kosovo cannot be separated, it cannot be torn apart. In northern Kosovo and southern Kosovo live our countrymen and they deserve and need our support at every moment of their existence. Whenever we make a decision about national policy in one part of our country or in some other countries where our people live, we should always take care of that Serb who is the most vulnerable, who lives in a complete environment and who has no one else around him but representatives or members of other peoples who do not always show a friendly mood for him. I would like to say once again to you, since you have repeatedly expressed your dissatisfaction with my words of apology for the victims of other peoples. I have made words of respect for other victims, but at the same time I have created conditions to facilitate the lives and our countrymen in places where they find it most difficult, and in Gorski Kotor perhaps, Lici, Dalmatia, Baranja, in Velika Koča, in the vicinity of Zocist, in all the places where Serbs live on KIM. I deeply believe that this policy is above all moral, that this policy is in agreement with elemental human values, but that policy is deeply national and it is integrated. Dear People's MPs, allow me to say a few sentences concerning the conduct of international community representatives during this latest crisis in northern Kosovo. And in my presentation during yesterday, so to the public, I said openly that certain representatives of the international community encouraged the administration in Pristina to take acts, violent unilateral acts related to the taking of administrative crossings. I think it's a dangerous policy and international representatives bear their share of responsibility. Anyone playing with war in the Western Balkans is held accountable. Either he's guilty or he doesn't know what he's playing at. We who have experienced wars, bombings, victims, we know very well how dangerous such a political game is. We demand, I believe, that as President of the Republic of this House, I have the right to ask all representatives of the international community to be restrained in this political crisis and not take on the risk of taking responsibility for the new situation, but to clearly rule in harmony with their own mandate of status neutrality. If it is true that, by any chance, Mr Demarnjak today said that EULEX respects the Constitution and the laws of Kosovo and supports the establishment of customs controls, he has violated the status neutrality of Eulex and I want to make that clear. In this context, our negotiators Mr. Bogdanovic and Mr. Stefanovic, whom I would like to thank for the exceptional role in these crisis days and to congratulate them, have made it clear to their KFOR negotiators that any transportation of Albanian administration officials to Pristina, past the agreement with Belgrade, therefore, agreements that have full legality and legitimacy, to administrative crossings, is not in agreement with the status neutrality of KFOR, and I make that clear. So Serbia will also rule the future, as the government is today, in terms of that position, while I am the President of the Republic of Serbia, I believe, while this government is in its own positions, based on the Serbian citizens' decision. At the same time, I'll answer some questions right away. Of course we are not informed by the Kosovo administration of the Rosa action, a special unit, a unilateral unit that is an act of violence. But, at the same time, respected SRS MPs, of course you must know that every state has its own intelligence activities, of course, that we have collected all previous months of knowledge not only about Kosovo, but about the whole region. Of course, we've analyzed these findings from our conversational people in the world and, of course, I said that on the show, in the interview, during yesterday, that this operation "Rossa" was no surprise to us, because this operation was planned at a long time, months before it happened. That's my answer to my phone question from your SRS Parliament Club – did it all start two months ago? It's not. Let me also give my grade and confirm what is actually happening in several layers of political life, or political events, right now in connection with this operation. On the surface, this process is happening on KIM because of the so-called customs stamps and traffic controls of goods. Kosovo so-called The government says it is due to the establishment of a legal order in northern Kosovo, where disorder and lawlessness are allegedly ruled, which should imply that there is absolute order in the rest of the KIM. There is no international security service that does not know that KIM is entirely, therefore, the entire area of KIM, one of the biggest security risks to Southeast Europe at all because of drug trafficking and everyone who is fighting on a global drug trafficking plan. Serbia achieves exceptional results with its international allies in the area. We are also threatened by drug trafficking, but the threat threatens Europe as a whole. In KIM, all European reports, reports from the European Commission, do not have order, legality and law. In northern Kosovo, the situation is no different than in the rest of Kosovo. So that elaborate administration in Pristina simply doesn't match the truth, it's absolutely untrue. Essentially, the administration's interest in Pristina is to change the reality of northern Kosovo. However, there are long-term, strategic interests. This is when reality changes in northern Kosovo, when institutions from Pristina try to master northern Kosovo, as they succeed in some other parts of KIM, to then come through a longer time interval, to change ethnic structure. No one else in the Balkans is naive and we make it clear to our international partners. Serbia will oppose such a policy and will shed light on the real intentions of the administration in Pristina and the conduct of national policies from the extreme centres of Albanian politics throughout the Southeast European region. So, even in the interview that you're talking about, I said that I oppose the creation of major national states, in this context and in great Albania. I oppose, as you know, the creation of a great Serbia, unlike those of you who think, respected radicals, that it is a legitimate policy and you get the votes of Serbian citizens for this policy. I believe that the establishment of major national states in the Western Balkans area is leading this whole area and all peoples and all citizens to new conflicts and new deaths. But I said that Serbia, unlike other countries, can survive it, and other countries cannot survive such a policy. I said that Serbia is ready to seek a solution for KIM, whatever solution it is, provided that it is supported by Serbian citizens in a referendum, a solution that will lead to peace and that we do not have the right to put any legitimate solution to the conflict on KIM ad act. It is our duty to seek every possible solution because the existing is no solution because it is unnatural, because it is unfair and that is why it is unsustainable. It is not natural and just for one nation to get everything, but for another nation to lose everything in one place. These are also the cornerstones of the politics of the Republic of Serbia and the foundations of the policies that, as President of the Republic, I am leading in the international arena. Let me establish another principle, after these latest events at KIM. It cannot be accepted that a unilateral act of violence is benefiting from a party who has taken such an act. That's why I'm asking the international community to establish a previous situation at KIM. We have expressed that attitude on several occasions in the last days of our international conversation. If the act of violence is turned to benefit for a bully, then the principle that anyone else can use is established. If that happens, the entire space we live in can be immersed in new conflicts and new conflicts, again I say, and new tragic situations and experiences for all citizens living in this space, not just for Serbs, but for all other citizens. Our policy is peaceful and therefore we want to prevent any conflict. That's why our policy is responsible, and that's why the principles we're ruling on, we're asking that those principles stick to others. That is why we deeply believe that these principles are in agreement with European values. Ladies and gentlemen, let me sort of refer to the remarks I received from the MPs, although this is not a session of parliament or a session of parliament in which the President of the Republic responds to MPs because there is no such constitutional framework, because the Constitution defines our competences. The President of the Republic, namely, corresponds to citizens who choose him for their work, not parliament, because that is our constitutional system. Citizens are directly elected by the President of the Republic, but I am not running away from answering certain questions that have been raised because I believe that you are asking these questions on behalf of the citizens who vote for you. Which is a problem between the DSS policy and the policy I ran as the bearer of the list of ZES and in the presidential elections several years ago. I agree it's a long list, but maybe there's a chance that some of these dilemmas can be solved again, or you don't think I should, or you want me to shut up? I'm sorry, honourable DSS MPs, I won't grant you that wish. The DSS believes that Serbia should leave, don't, please, throw it to me, I've listened carefully to every one of your exhibitions. I'm telling you not because it bothers me, but rather because it introduces a bad picture in the international public about the Serbian parliament at this point. When the Presidents of the Republic or MPs speak in other parliaments, they all hear each other. In order to raise our credibility in the international public, we must rule and rule because then they will respect us. If we don't respect ourselves, no one will respect us. So I urge you to listen to what I'm saying, not because you have no right to question my views, and you need to question my views because it is your full right. So, you're proposing and proposing in all previous times and times when we were together in the government, and that's why there was an end to the functioning of our common government, you suggested that Serbia set up a different policy. Not that Europe has no alternative. I remind you that the policy we have run for Serbia's citizens - the EU has no better alternative. If she had, we'd consider her. We keep thinking about potential alternatives, but they don't show up. For what? Because I deeply believe that not only the issue of the administrative line, but all other issues of peace, we cannot solve better and more effectively, but by just EU membership, the entire space of the Western Balkans. Secondly, and allow me to answer now both you and the representatives of the SRS, I think you are unique in that position. If Serbia gave up its membership in the EU, it would not raise their chances of maintaining its sovereignty at KIM, because only by providing support for large forces, significant actors in international politics, Serbia can also secure its sovereignty at KIM. Any opposite policy, the elemental logic requires it, would currently distance Serbia from every right and opportunity to regain its sovereignty and establish full integrity in the KIM area. That goes for the U.S., dear friends. Serbia cannot secure its rights unless it is supported by the UN Security Council. In the UN Security Council, the dominant is played by great powers, permanent members of the Security Council. It has never happened in the history of the world that a country has provided its rights without having a clear support for the permanent members of the Security Council or for the silent support of those members. That's why our policy towards the United States should also be constructive, should be partnered, and even when we disagree on KIM. That's what we've made clear in all the conversations we've had with our American administration friends. As far as politics are concerned, war has no alternative or politics, we cannot just rely on a peaceful policy but we must always threaten somewhere from the end with a possible war. I have been listening to this remark for years and after the negotiations held jointly by the representatives of the DSS and DS in previous mandates concerning the future of Kosovo and now in this session of parliament, I see that this position is shared by you representatives of the SRS, the DSS has not been overly stated on this subject. Last time, not in this session, no, but in previous sessions, it certainly is. Mr. Nikolic has remained completely unspeakable on this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59219	I ask the MPs to allow the president to speak. I'd really like to ask you to go without comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59220	I'm trying to quote. I made it clear. I'm talking about earlier Parliament sessions. I'm talking political debate over the past two and a half years. So, gentlemen of the DSS, I'm not being rude. So, the DSS position shown by the advisers in the negotiating process, I'm saying now that I'm not being indeterminate, me personally and your today's parolees, is that you should never say a sentence that Serbia will not wage war. Dot. Mr Nikolic said, "If the commander-in-chief says Serbia will not fight, how will you protect the Serb people?" Mr. Nikolic, I find this sentence today expressed in parliament absolutely insecure and very dangerous. Because after this sentence, you're actually leaving a dilemma about whether there might be something else to say today in the Serbian Parliament. You said Mr Nikolic that it would be much more appropriate if I said that Serbia does not want to war, not a sentence – Serbia will not war. That's what I'm saying -- Serbia won't fight. It's a policy I run as president of the Republic of Serbia. It is a policy I will not give up on, and whether I will show my wishes in international relations, it is completely inadequate and there is no consensus, positive consensus, on Serbia, on its international reputation, and especially on the security of Serbia's citizens and on KIM. The very idea of violence in Serbia must always be politically attacked. That's my political attitude. And there can't be any misunderstanding about it. Mr. Korac, and Mr. Ostojić, so Mr. Ostojić, you said that the LDP would support the Declaration that we are talking about if it said that Serbia would become a NATO member. I believe that this declaration has nothing to do with Serbia's integration into some security structures, nor that any integration into NATO would solve this problem that exists now. Would some earlier integration of Serbia into NATO solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija can be discussed and that is a completely legitimate position, but I remind you that even during the Rambuje negotiations, Mr Milutinovic proposed to US counterpart Christopher Hill that Serbia join NATO to address the integrity problem in Kosovo and Metohija. But even then, such a message did not work, saying it was most likely not an opportunity for the Kosovo and Metohija issue to be resolved by such a single integration. I am sorry that Mr. Korac, who spoke on behalf of the LDP parliamentary club, has proposed a solution that Serbia no longer pushes citizens in northern Kosovo to unequal confrontation and has suggested that Serbia push or suggest Serbs in northern Kosovo to solve their problems with Pristina on their own. It would also be an unfair confrontation and Serbs from northern Kosovo would not have any institutional capacity to solve their problems with Pristina, particularly supported by international factors in establishing non-dependence. As for Mr Mirovic, I respect every MP and therefore answer those questions. Dear Messengers, you have appointed me. I answer to Mr Nikolic and to all those who have asked that question. My view is that if Serbia is set a condition whether to enter the EU on condition that it recognises Kosovo's non-dependence, I say, and yesterday I said my position as president of Serbia is no. Not only explicitly but also implicit recognition of Kosovo's non-dependence, it is absolutely out of the question and therefore we are conducting negotiations and we are looking for modalities, solutions that do not lead Serbia towards an implicit recognition of Kosovo's non-dependence. That is why there is a problem among other things, because we are fighting for the legitimate interests of the Republic of Serbia and for the interests of the Serbian people. Whether Serbia will wage a war, I have answered the question of how we will protect the population in Kosovo and Metohija, the war no one can protect the population in Kosovo and Metohija, we can only by peace, we can have constant interventions, the lighting of those who want war and violence. We can have continuous activity, thus protecting our population in the pogrom in 2004. Then diplomacy, then our uninterrupted activity gave results, then I was minister of defense, we will also this time, so we rule now and so we stopped this special unit intervention of Ross. Did we last year submit a resolution with the European countries after pressures related to Sandzak, i.e. the Raska area and other pressures, but we submitted a resolution with a deep belief that we can find a solution precisely in agreement with the principle of not recognising implicitly, explicitly independent Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia's path towards EU membership. To Mr. Dacic, to answer, did they promise that there would be no change in reality on the ground? It was our request, and I received assurances that it would be so, but we will never give up on that requirement because I believe that as far as the change in reality on the ground is concerned, it is possible only by violence, any conflict of violent policy is unacceptable for Serbia, and at that moment negotiations and dialogue between Pristina and Belgrade have been questioned. Now let me get this straight. Peace and stability are the first and basic policy setting of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, resolving Kosovo's problem through dialogue because Albanians and Serbs are essentially directed towards each other. Only through dialogue do we face the problems we can solve. Third, it is necessary to fight to legitimise Serbia's national interests and the Republic of Serbia in international institutions. This means that we also accept the legitimate interests of other peoples and Albanian peoples. Only in these circumstances can we fight for the full legitimacy of our interests. Fourthly, such a policy represents an upgrade of our policy in the area of the former Yugoslavia and it is a fundamental twist, which is the answer to you, Mr Ostojic, compared to all the traditional politics that has been led in Serbia's space in all previous years. Our policy is essentially peaceful. Our policy implies respect for the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia, but this is also a policy in which we are fighting to legitimise the fundamental, elemental interests of the Serbian people. In doing so, we respect the interests of every other nation. These are the foundations of the policy we're running. Fifthly, respecting the legal role of international institutions in Kosovo, which includes continued insistence, the continuing insistence that these institutions stick to their clearly defined status neutral mandates. We will have a very difficult and very serious dialogue with these institutions in the coming days. Finally, in order to continue such a peaceful policy, Serbia's integration into the EU and the whole region, the establishment of peace and security for the entire Western Balkans and for Serbia and in the area of our southern province, to be absolutely clear, we need to deal with the priority issue today. In the coming days, we need to be extremely active in KIM space, to focus on this conflict over administrative crossings getting its rational form, to get things back to the previous state and to continue the dialogue. Because only through dialogue and Serbs in KIM can have a future. Only through dialogue and citizens of Serbia and all people living in this area can have a future and only in the EU can we all solve the essential problems, the traditional problems of this common Balkan space. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-07-30-0.u59221	I thank Mr Tadic, President of the Republic of Serbia. I'm concluding a unique search. I thank the prime minister and ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, all MPs for their participation in the work. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a declaration in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion of the session's single agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Sunday 31 July 2011 at 00:50 a.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I thank you all. I ask the MPs to prepare to vote in three minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 155 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move to a decision on the 1st point of the agenda – a proposal for a DECLARATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA ON THE ACTUAL STATUAL ACTUAL ACTUAL INSTITUTIONS IN PRIVATES. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija following unilateral and violent acts by the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, in principle. Of the 203 MPs present, 179 voted for, 18 against, four abstentions, and two did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal for a declaration, in principle. National MPs Vlatko Ratkovic, Smiljana Milisavljevic, Maja Vidinović, Gordana Komic and Jelena Trivan withdrew the amendments they submitted to the proposal for a declaration. As the National Assembly accepted the proposal for a declaration in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. To the full text of the proposal for a declaration, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica" group. Please make a statement. Of the 203 MPs present, 78 voted for, two against, abstention, no one voted 123. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The entire text of the proposal was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica. Please make a statement. Of 203 of us, 78 voted in favour of, two against, abstentions. It didn't vote 123. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the whole text of the proposal for a declaration pursuant to Article 161(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Amendments were submitted by the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 206 MPs, 181 voted for the amendment. It was 18. There were no abstentions. It didn't vote seven. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Dragan Todorovic submitted the amendment to indent 2. Please make a statement. Of 206, 64 voted in favour of the amendment. Against four. Abstained one. It didn't vote 138. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At point 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Please make a statement. Of the 207 MPs, 64 voted in favour of the amendment. One against. There were no abstentions. It didn't vote 142. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At point 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 207 MPs, as far as we're concerned, 63 is in favour. Against two. He held on to one. 141 people's MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At paragraph 5, MP Dejan Mirovic submitted the amendment. I'm asking for a statement. Of the 207 MPs, 62 voted in favour of the amendment. No one. Abstained one. It didn't vote 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On item 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please make a statement. Of the 207 MPs, 63 voted in favour of the amendment. Two against. Abstained no one. It didn't vote 140. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the proposal for a declaration in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the current state of play in Kosovo and Metohija following the unilateral and violent acts of the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Of the 207 MPs, 181 MPs were declared. There were 20 MPs against it. There are four abstentions. It didn't vote two. I find that the National Assembly adopted the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the current situation in KIM, following unilateral and violent acts by the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. We move on to the National Assembly's decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by MPs during the session. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 30 July 2011, at 20 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Members of Parliament to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. We'll have to re-establish the quorum. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, obviously there's not enough of us to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so let me just close the session. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. I thank you for your participation in the work, and I want you to rest nicely.
