ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51827	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 66 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 89 MPs in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly prescribed by the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and after opening the session and setting out the number of MPs attending the session and before moving to a further debate, the National Assembly is working on the basis of Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states in the first position that the MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly and the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. Exceptionally, under Article 2, the President, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may also exercise this right under Article 1st, 286, at a session of the National Assembly orally, in one address, for up to five minutes, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the sitting. Before moving to a further debate, I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives would like to exercise their right to Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask all of you - what kind of country do we live in? You probably don't have all the information either, but today I will try to inform both the Serbian Parliament and the citizens of what is going on in this country. You know, for some things, I can say, it's appropriate that they happen in tribal communities, but in organized society, it's inappropriate, unless it's a dictatorship and a regime that doesn't run away from repression towards members of its society or citizens. Namely, this is about the closer and further family of Ratko Mladic. What this family is experiencing, it's just amazing that in the 21st century, a country can do this kind of thing. I'll just tell you about some drastic examples of what's going on with the Ratko Mladic family, first of all his brother-in-laws, or his wife's brothers, Bosiljka Mladic. It is a matter of Miroslav Jegdic, who was offered to choose the country in which he will live, the money, as long as it takes, only to agree to betray Ratko Mladic. Since a man had nothing to betray, or to subdue, they began to threaten him to burn down his house. Otherwise, a man came from Macedonia and since he did not agree to any blackmail, they cancelled his hospitality, expelled him to Macedonia, although he had an extended stay for six months in Serbia. Well, you all know how individuals get the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. With Bosiljka Mladic's second brother, Vukasin Jagdic, the situation is even worse. He was heard several times, beaten and threatened to take away his child. Afterwards, he had very large psychological traumas, ended up in the hospital "Laza Lazarevic". A man who had such problems, under medication, was detained, literally detained by members of some state services, whether the MUP or BIA, we will find out later. I'm looking for information on who was investigating the Jegdic brothers. They brought him into a bar, even though they knew he was under the influence of the drugs, they made him take alcohol and threaten to burn him and his wife and his house down. After that, he attempted suicide and ended up in the hospital "Laza Lazarevic". Bosi Mladic in February 2010 took money from her house. They were obliged to return it within 90 days. To this day, they have not returned a single penny. They suspended the pension payment of Ratko Mladic. He doesn't even have social security. Practically, if she gets sick, she doesn't have any money, she's doomed to die. She was accused of holding a trophy weapon, Ratko Mladic. Well, 90% of New Belgrade would be responsible for the fine, more or less, almost all families of military pensioners have trophy weapons, but only Bosiljko Mladic is tried. What is particularly interesting, the wife of Darka Mladic, Biljana Mladic, was fired on May 13th 2010, even though she was sick. Darko Mladic has a private firm. They're going around all his committees and threatening to inspect unless they break every contact with his firm. The other day, on Ratko Mladic's birthday, they arrested Prince Michael's boyfriend who held a picture of Ratko Mladic. See what's going on on the other side: some idiot wore a T-shirt with Jove the Wild, Purda got Jadranka Kosor... (President: five minutes. ) All those who killed Serbs have all the rights, only those who defended Serbs have no right and should answer. That should stop. We are looking for all information regarding the Ratko Mladic family, who has been investigating and what measures have been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51829	Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51830	Mrs. Komic, yesterday we had a debate about the government, we tried to talk as concretely as possible, but there was not too much room for all the topics we wanted to open. A question for the Prime Minister: who made a decision on behalf of the government on the participation of our country at the US-The Balkans summit to withdraw its decision afterwards because of the presence of Hashim Thaci as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Kosovo? We don't agree with official state policy. We think politics must be reasonable, rational, that it must strive to achieve those interests that are real. We have never been here in parliament or representatives of this government or representatives of some previous governments as crucially responsible for the situation that eventually led to such disturbed relations between Belgrade and Pristina and, realistically, the defeat of our state and the loss of Kosovo, but this policy has some continuity and foothold, from 2004 to 2005 to today. Serbia is more or more clearly insisting on territorial integrity, respecting the principles of international law and treating Kosovo as a province, in line with the preamble to the Constitution adopted in 2006. It was also known to the government when it decided to participate in the summit. It is very important that we try to formulate the way we treat the world. There's too much depravity and intrusiveness in our politics. We privatise NIS by selling its property to Russia, with guarantees or supporting documentation that testifies to some profit that remained in NIS, and then turns out that instead of profits, we have some debts. It's the same case with the partnership we're developing with China. We sign an agreement to build a bridge, and then we're the biggest obstacle to building that bridge we've asked the Chinese to build it for us. Then we finally come to this turn-off policy that was made in September of last year, a turn that is real and is compromised by what the government then does. At this point, it is acceptable for our country to hold talks in Brussels with the deputy prime minister of the Kosovo government, but it is unacceptable for our country to participate in the Balkan-US summit, which it agreed to several months ago. Where is this seriousness and where is the kind of approach that is necessary for us to first manage to protect the interests of the Serb community in Kosovo, to normalise our relations with that part of the world with which these relations are more than controversial and thus unblock that reality which is frustrating for our society and which describes Serbia as the country that is most isolated by analysing its relations with the EU, with the rest of the world, in the whole region? How can one government first say that they will participate in these talks, and then withdraw their consent? This cannot remain at the level of some personal attitudes, it must follow a specific responsibility. We think our country had a place at that meeting. We don't see any use to us in the fact that we have escaped from Thaci from the fact that we have been able to meet with important people from the United States and with the leaders of the countries in the region. There will be representatives, prime ministers, presidents of Macedonia, Montenegro, Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, all Balkan countries. There will be Hashim Thaci. There will be no one from Serbia alone. How can it be more useful for this country that it has decided to keep quiet and distance from encountering those who can have a very effective effect on solving the problems that we talk so much about, let's say the problems that shake up the Serb community in Kosovo? Are your problems serious? They did. How do we deal with these problems? Declaratively, with great concern but action – more than irresponsible. We have not helped Serbs in Kosovo or Serbia, and at least we have protected what I do not think can be truly protected, because it is above the normal life framework, and that is the flora about Kosovo as part of Serbia, even if it is only seen in myths and phrases that are filled with our daily policy. It must be sanctioned and it must be discussed openly. We never talked in the assembly about Kosovo, except the moment we hit our head against the wall in front of the International Court of Justice following the verdict and the court's stance on the legality of the Kosovo Independence Declaration. So if we have a parliament, if we have an institution to ask parliamentary questions, then it is not an opportunity for us to spend five minutes here to have an effective performance during the day, but rather an opportunity to open up large topics and offer concrete answers to them, not in written form, but to call, as vice-president of the Assembly, the Government and ask us on behalf of those who lead such a policy or an argument for such a non-serious policy, which I don't think has at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51831	Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51832	Madam Chairman, MPs, from the press and the media these days could have concluded that some procedure was being conducted, or some kind of procedure would be conducted, some kind of crime or something like that called - the political background of the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Since I don't really know as a lawyer what kind of crime is "political background of murder", or any crime, for one, I would ask Mrs. Malovic, the minister of justice, to explain it to me. And why is that? Because a special prosecutor called these days claiming that, therefore, as I called it, "the political background of the murder", among other things (in which capacity it did not say) would be heard by DSS President Vojislav Kostunica, who twice served as prime minister of the state and the first democratically elected SRJ president. So, what I'm interested in here, I want to remove certain obscenities from that whole story. In order to remove them, it is necessary that certain state authorities, primarily certain ministers, such as the minister of justice or the interior minister, give their statement on this, not to hear them in part and in the way that it was the previous days when it came to the interior minister. In fact, he said yesterday, according to what we read in the newspaper, that 20 people would be heard at the prosecutor's request, with no emphasis on who or in what capacity, when it comes to those persons who will be heard. Some names are listed, but not exactly who and in what capacity. In doing so, he said there was no request, or that the hearing request did not receive the name Vojislav Kostunica on the list. Again, on the third hand, we know that there is a private lawsuit against DSS President Vojislav Kostunica for this famous political background of the crime. What's interesting now, watching different shows on different televisions with national frequencies, like one called "Our Private Thing", on Saturday, we saw that there was obviously someone's private interest, under one, that it was politically discrediting. It was all like that, and so we treated it until the moment the prosecutor Radisavljevic called. That moment is no longer a private interest. We don't know what Prosecutor Radisavljevic's plans are until today. It is impossible for Minister Malovic to know nothing about it, it is impossible for Ivica Dacic to know nothing about it. We should be informed of that, of course, I insist. On the other hand, when it comes to such a floscule as "political background of murder", we need to be very careful, because when it comes to political background, then we have political qualifications, not criminal justice. In criminal terms, there are assistants, accomplices, organizers, instigators and others for a particular crime; it is called that name. If someone wants to refrain from calling President SRJ, the first legitimate and democratically elected, Vojislav Kostunica, an assistant for the execution of a crime, let them say that name, and we will see what is the basis and basis of what is the fact. Is the fact that during a certain period, the Democratic Party of Serbia was politically opposed to the government of Zoran Djindjic? It is a fact, but if it is a fact, then for any future unfortunate circumstance (don't let God let anything happen to anyone) any opposition party politically opposed to someone must be responsible or inspired by some crime. That chicken logic, I can understand, comes from our political opponents who deal with politics, but I can't understand that political opponents have the strength to push that chicken logic through the state's organs. That's what bothers me the most and that's what hurts and that's what this society pulls back. In doing so, certain facts, facts that have not been answered by today, are floating in the air. The prosecutor eventually released the murderers of Zoran Djindjic from prison, the same prosecutor to this day did not answer, because there is neither a liberating nor a conviction, as the proceedings are indefinitely delayed. Who did this, who visited people in Schiller, who was their friend? That's the key questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51833	National MP Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51834	Since yesterday in the debate on the reconstruction of the government and in the words of the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic himself, we were unable to hear operational measures and what will be the results... We know what the goals are, which are becoming inaccessible to this government, because they're going back and forth and it's getting worse and worse, these targets are getting further and further and further away. Thank you, Mr. Omerovic, for your interest in what I'm saying. I'm glad you're listening. Then, probably, he wouldn't have to promise to fix someone's disability pension. There are legal conditions for disability pensions, whether they are obtained or not. He can't get fixed up and secure himself. Otherwise, there are investigations and trials in this matter. To get back on the subject, since I was interrupted by fellow MPs. I want to ask a simple question, and I will briefly ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic. I hope that within the time period he answers me, because yesterday, the Serbian citizens couldn't hear, and I think these things that I'm going to ask him are really of interest to them. What will be the salary, and how many pensions, average, in Serbia by the end of the year? To tell us now, based on the work of his government, will it be 100 euros less, as so far, and 40 euros in pension, which was the result of his previous government, or will it be at least one, two euros better? Let him tell us exactly and the value in the euro, that he doesn't speak in dinars, because we can immediately subscribe to another sub-question: how much will inflation be in the course of this year? So, not to answer as much as expected, I'm interested in how much inflation will be at the end of the year. Then how many new employees are going to be without anyone losing their job in the meantime? Because 44 people, 44 Serbian citizens, lose their jobs every hour in Serbia. This is the result of Mr Cvetkovic's work so far. The next question for him is: How much will the bread “save ” cost on April 1st? Already today in some stores it costs 69.9 dinars. So how many loafs of “sava ” will it cost on April 1st? Let him answer that question for me. And, last thing I want to ask: How will the government of Mr. Cvetkovic respond to the rising price of oil in the world every day? There is no answer to today, while governments in the world react either by releasing their reserves (which we do not have), either by changing excise or tax policies. For example, Croats, our neighbours, have already reduced oil excises on Friday to make this fuel price burden easier, so that it will not be for their citizens and for the economy at all. Will such a measure be carried out by this government? I suggest that they do so as an MP. Or are they still gonna think about just filling the budget, which is wrong? Because if they leave these excises, the price of oil and fuel at our pumps and the suppliers of the economy will have to go up. It will increase inflation again, the budget will not benefit from that. If the excise duty is reduced, normal or increased consumption will be able to be charged through VAT and the budget will not be lost. But it seems to me that for such moves this government will not be able to do, as it has never been before. That's why I'm asking concrete questions, to see if there will be concrete measures, not to listen to a general story and fairy tale, which we've been listening to for three years, and even yesterday, about the work of the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51835	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives report for a word, to exercise their right under Article 286(2)? Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Snezana Samardzic Markovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, to attend: Dragan Vukmirović, Director of the Republic Statistics Institute and Zoran Jančić and Miroslav Jankovic, Assistant Director of the Republic Statistics Institute. We move on to a common principle and single search of the 4-6th agenda – Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Law on the List of dwellings, households and dwellings 2011. Year, Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the List of Polyprivred 2011. Year and proposal for a Decision on the Official STATISTICS Programme in the 2011 period. Until 2015. YEAR (convening) The moment in which we have interrupted the work is the moment when the debate is concluded in accordance with the statements for the word and order of the MPs, or until the moment I ask, since there are no more statements on the lists of MPs for the word, and before the search is concluded, whether the words of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Since that is not the case, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I conclude my rules of procedure a common principle and uniform search on the draft law amending the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in 2011, the Proposal for a Law amending the Agricultural List Act 2011 and the Proposal for a Decision on the Official Statistics Programme for the period 2011 to 2015. On the basis of Article 90(2) and Article 87, I shall inform the Members of Parliament that I am now setting a break, which will not last for the usual hour, but will continue the session at 1400 hours. The reason for the delay is the need to be informed of the representative that the Government has appointed to be at a session that starts at 1400 hours and to work, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so that at this moment we will not even open a joint principle and uniform search on the united points of the agenda, but will do so at 14.00 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 14.05]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our session in the afternoon. We move to item 7 - 13 and 28 of the agenda – THE PROGRAMME OF THE ‘HYPO-ALPE-ADRIA’ OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION AND USE OF THE COUNTRY OF THE KFW FOR THE HYPO-ALPE-ADRIA, THE CONFORMITY OF THE EU AND NBS, THE CREDIT OF THE CREDIT WITH THE CREDIT ON THE CARIN PURSUANTS, THE MEMORANDUM ON THE REGULISION OF THE LONG ALBANIA AND THE CONTRIBUTION ON CONTRACTION OF CONSTRUCTIONS (CERNAL and Unique Search) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Djejanovic, on the joint principle and uniform review of the draft law referred to in points 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13th and 28th agenda, in addition to the representatives of the proposed Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, Višnja Kuzmanovic and Aleksandar Kocic, advisors at the Ministry of Finance (Government of Public Debt), Dusan Puric, adviser to the Ministry of Finance and Dragan Ratkovic, group manager at the Ministry of Finance. In agreement with the National Assembly's decisions to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 28 and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group, and this is: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the United Regions of Serbia - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS - 24 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of the SPS-JS – 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group of New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Group of minorities – six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask all MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, as we are bound by Article 96. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would also like to inform you that according to these points of the parliamentary group's agenda, the following MPs: MP Zoran Kasalovic to the SPS-JS MP, MP Veroljub Arsic, MP for Serbia and MP Dejan Mirovic to the SRS. If another parliamentary group decides to provide information on an authorised representative, please inform us about this so that we can inform the National Assembly. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Taxes on Assets, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods, Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the “Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank” a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvečan and Zubin Potok, Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the German Financial Institution of KfW under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise of “Electroprivregation of Serbia” (Project of Rehabilitation of HE Zvornik), Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Credits between the EU and the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia, the Proposal for Confirmation of the Law on the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. Before I ask if the representative of Proposer Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, wants a word, based on Article 90(2) and Article 87. I am informing the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure that we will be working after 1800 hours today, and by the end of the debate on the very open common principle and uniform search, we will be working for today, so that tomorrow, 16 March, we will continue the work on the next item of the agenda. Does the representative of Proposer Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51837	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of the People, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to explain in the shortest lines these laws that are before you today, which are diverse, but which have one thread of financial elements that regulate public finances, as well as the financing of expenditures that both local self-government and central government have. I think it would be best if I said a few introductory words about each of these laws in the order presented to this respected home. As regards the law on amendments and additions to the Law on property taxes, essentially, this law harmonizes the elements with some other laws in order to ensure what is very important for the tax system, which is the principle of neutrality. In these amendments and additions, the provisions governing the tax on property shall be brought into line with each other. This must be brought into line because amendments to the draft legislation, which, inter alia, changed the tax rate in the previous debate, would also change those provisions when setting the property tax for 2011. So what's important here is that this law will ensure that this tax is charged on one basis, not two, that's not by what would be the rate of adoption of the law in this home and then at some other rate for the period that was before, but here it allows for a single payment of this tax for this year. What is important, too, is that, in order to ensure consistent application of the constitutional principle of taxation to the relative economic power of the obligor, here it proposes that more than ten acres of land in public property, i.e. agricultural land in state property, tax is paid for land, i.e. over ten acres. that there is an untaxed base up to ten acres, which covers a large part of our citizens. This is in line with the way in which the right to use building land in public property is arranged. In this connection, it is understood that, when taxing that land, more than ten acres of tax is not paid on its total surface, but the area of ten acres is exempt from taxation and that is the basis for taxation. Also, tax exemption is arranged for land under a tax-paying facility to eliminate the possibility of double taxation of the same land, i.e. by taxing the area of land under the facility and the very surface of that same facility. Finally, some legal-technical harmonisations of certain provisions are being carried out. What I can say, which is important to our citizens, is that up to ten acres is not taxed on the right to use and is not taxed on the right to rent land. At the same time, since there has been a lot of debate in the previous discussion in this esteemed home, I would like to say that the maximum rate, which has been discussed a lot, of 2%, is one maximum and is in line with the definition of the Republic of Serbia that we have one predictable tax environment for citizens and for the economy. Of course, it's not expected to be 2%. I remind the esteemed MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this is about the revenues of local self-government and not the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, and that within 60 days from now every local self-government will be able to determine the right rate, in any case, below 2%, which corresponds to the situation in the local self-government. This is how two equally important principles are aligned: the first principle is fiscal decentralisation in what is the original income of local self-government and, on the other hand, it is very important that predictability and the possibility that we do not happen in certain local self-governments to come up with large burdens which, in the medium term, would be at the expense of the municipality itself. As for the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxes on Use, Keeping and Wearing goods, here is essentially the recognition of a provision that brought one part, and that active part, of our citizens in a very difficult position. In fact, the adoption of this law is, above all, an opportunity for the taxpayer to unload the owner of a freight vehicle with a maximum mass of less than 3.5 tonnes. In other words, there were a lot of stories in our public and the media, those who had such vehicles (and were taxed as if they were not a working instrument) will now be placed in an equal tax situation with those businessmen who have vehicles that cross 3.5 tonnes. Of course, it's about those vehicles that aim at economic activity, i.e. services for the transport of light goods by entrepreneurs and other legal persons, by farmers, for the transport of agricultural products, as well as re-proportionals for the purpose of agricultural production. When adopted, this law will apply eight days after adoption. It will be a significant discharge for our citizens involved in these activities. We can say, it seems to me, that in this way the Government of the Republic of Serbia responds quickly to the problems observed in bringing our citizens together, and so we will continue to work; if there are any illogicalities, they will be corrected. This esteemed home, for example, works in the same law, when voting on the 2011 budget, also voted for a certain discharge for those who have ships. It has been seen to have been a burden for those who have very modest ships. In general, those initial provisions that were set did not hit the target, but they struck people who lived modestly and had small boats. That's consistent. It has been observed here that this provision of the law has to be changed so that those citizens who have small businesses, who deal with these services, have the opportunity to avoid tax burden, because, in fact, this vehicle does not serve them as a luxury, it's not some luxury jeep, it's a van of vehicles that people need to operate. Therefore, since they are now very well recognised in this law as a means of working, they will not pay a corresponding tax on them. Now, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to explain in the shortest lines these laws regarding financial arrangements. First of all, I want to run out of two loans that we have here today and which, in fact, (I will try to expose it in the least possible technical way) can be the beginning of something very important in the financial relations of our country and the EU. Why do I say that? Because before you, honourable MPs, there is a bill confirming the loan agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia. The total amount of this loan is up to 200m euros. Here, in essence, the European Union allows the Republic of Serbia to be in charge of the capital market under conditions that the European Union itself has. These are the conditions which, of course, would not be possible for our country unless we had one such financial approach to the EU. The European Union is not a state, but it is a legal person. It has a guarantee of all EU member states. It therefore has a credit rating AAA, or "tripple ej", as it is generally said on the capital market, and thus withdraws the most favourable conditions on the capital market. Of course, they depend on it from day to day, but here we have the opportunity to borrow interest that at this point does not represent more than 1% on the annual level and on the length of credit that is much more favourable than what our Ministry of Finance can achieve today on the domestic and foreign market. We also have another law, which is a bill on the confirmation of the Treaty which regulates the liability for compensation of costs between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Interestingly, the World Bank also recognized the need to support Serbia in a slightly different way. In other words, unlike what is mostly a World Bank loan, which has been in the last ten years... Although it's not ten years, actually, we started withdrawing our first funding from the World Bank in 2003, it's eight years. These are classic loans that are non-commercial. And let's remind ourselves, the World Bank has been giving us very cheap loans over the first five years. In the last few years, we've been getting into some more classic relationships with her. These were loans for specific projects or for covering our budget deficit. What's interesting about this agreement is that it actually looks like an agreement that we have with the European Union. In other words, the World Bank gives the Republic of Serbia a guarantee that it can be in debt of $400,000, with the World Bank's guarantee. The World Bank, as an international financial organisation that has the same guarantee as its shareholders, as well as the EU, has the best credit rating in the world – AAA or "tripple ej". Therefore, since it guarantees our country, it has ensured that our country is in charge. After the tender conducted by the finance ministry, the best conditions were given by the Sosite Bank to pay 400,000 euros... Unlike the interest, for example, that at the beginning of this year our Ministry of Finance and the Treasury achieved (between five and seven percent on the annual level, in euros), here we received an interest of 2.79% on the annual level. What are we saying? We are finding the possibility that, with the help of the EU and international financial institutions in the years to come, we will enter into a new, specific arrangement. What Serbia needs is to get a guarantee of those who have an extremely strong credit rating and that on the basis of that credit rating we can achieve very favourable conditions on the capital market. Of course, it doesn't come without certain conditions. When we look at the terms and conditions of this World Bank loan, i.e. The World Bank guarantees, or the EU loan, are the conditions: implementing the necessary reforms in the area of European integration, continuing the successful implementation of the arrangement with the IMF, in the words of the responsible macro-financial policy, which is in the interest of our citizens anyway. The World Bank, of course, needs further structural reforms in addition to the macro-financial framework. Let me just sum up these two loans, because for the first time they appear in this form in front of the National Assembly. As far as I know, at least in the last ten years, there's never been a similar arrangement. I'm sure you've noticed that at this point, there is a very active discussion; and I personally, as the coordinator of European assistance to our country and Vice President for European Integration... We are talking to the EU that actually this arrangement that we have here today, under the cover of macro-financial support (because that instrument is called now), and with the inspiration that is coming, and the engagement of the World Bank, we have a dialogue with the EU on macro-financial issues, at the moment when the IMF is not present. Of course, our idea is to step out of the crisis and step out of an arrangement with the IMF in the years to come. Why is that interesting? Because the EU itself at the December summit also reaffirmed those internal rules of economic governance of the Union several days ago. Pressed by the financial crisis, finding out the major financial problems some countries have, such as Greece and Ireland, the European Union has changed the way it provides financial support not only to euro area members, but also to the general EU. Our proposal is to enter into dialogue with the EU on the basis of this arrangement and experience with the World Bank of Serbia, but also with the Western Balkan countries, to enter into the mechanism set up by the European Union for members today. This basically means that each year, members present each other's budgets for the following year, as well as current projections of their pensions and other systems, in order to realize that no Member State is jeopardising the financial balance of the continent, and that in return, if such a situation is with our country, as it will be, we will get, but not on any specific loan like today, but as an EU support mechanism for the capital market. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am aware that for most of our citizens, what I've been talking about now may seem supremacy, technical and bureaucratic, but if we succeed in this effort to make Serbia a leader in it, the estimated savings for this decade for Serbia and its citizens are between 1.5 billion euros and two billion euros. That's how much we'd save on interest. That is how much we would get in the length of our duties and in the quality of the stability of our country's source of funding, regardless of who leads it. I think it's a topic worth fighting for. That is why it is good that today you have these two credit arrangements: one concerning the EU, where Serbia alone, with BiH, has this arrangement today with the EU, and the other, with the World Bank, where we are the same pioneers. This is the first time the World Bank in the region of Europe has one such arrangement, and that's something that's good. Let me conclude by commenting very briefly on a few of the other arrangements that exist here. You have before you a proposal for a guarantee law in favour of the "Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank" a.d. Belgrade, according to the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan and Zubin Potok. It is a classic sovereign guarantee for a commercial bank that will be able to provide 9.1m euros, significant funds for serious problems in the area of water supplying important municipalities of our country, for the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan, Zubin Potok, generally 9,021m euros, of which (and here the municipalities of Cosmet agreed) 4.5m euros should belong to Kosovo Mitrovica, 2.3m euros to the municipality of Zvečan and 2.3m euros to the municipality of Zubin Potok. I think that this is how we show solidarity to our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija, in the most direct way, which is to solve those problems that bother them every day. Water supply problems are also present in that part of our country. Finally, the bill on granting the guarantee to the German financial institution KfW, under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivred Serbia". It is a classic arrangement, but I want to say here that for seven years now, the German Development Bank KfW has been talking about it yesterday, which one of the models for the construction of Serbia's development bank, has been helping our municipalities, our cities; here in particular, in the area of the reconstruction of our 70m-euro plant "Zvornik". So it's about significant means. In this way, honourable Members of the People, we will be able to restore that central and extend its term of 30 years. This hydrocenter, one of the most high-quality ones, hasn't had a quality reconstruction since it was built, we can say it; not that people didn't want to do it, but the funds didn't. We've got quality resources here. Fixed interest, for example, is 1% on the annual level. So what we represent to the MPs is not commercial arrangements at all, but something that is significantly more favourable and thanks to the guarantee of the Republic of Germany, its Development Bank, because KfW also has this famous rating, the best in the world. Like the EU and the World Bank, KfW is able to deliver funds to our country under conditions that are not really commercial and with interest that can also be variable and can be fixed. If it's fixed, it won't cross 1%, so it's very good quality. We increase the time limit of operation of HE "Zvornik" by at least 25 years, but according to the estimates of experts and 30 years and, of course, its capacity is increasing. In this way, our republic, which thanks to hydrocentrals today has about 19% of the total production of electricity coming from renewable sources... Unfortunately, we haven't yet launched biomass, or wind, or sun as possible sources, but the hydropotential of our country, which, according to some estimates, was used just up to 50%... This is one way that is direct and efficient, economical way to extend the duration of existing hydrothermia, to increase through new technology its capacity, production and thus strengthen the percentage of renewable energy sources in our energy balance. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you are facing quality financial laws. I expect that, as most of them respond very directly to the needs of our citizens, from Cosmet to the production of electricity in the west of our country, as they open a potentially new era, through a mechanism where Serbia will precede, a new part of our relations with the EU for the future that they can have, as with these 200,000-euro arrangements for the EU today and $400,000 with the World Bank, can have at the level of a decade a great positive effect on our country's financial balance... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51838	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The Finance Committee, the National MP Branka Ljiljak, vice president of the Committee? No, I don't. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic? No, I don't. National MP Milos Jeftic? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51839	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Djelic, it is a pity that we lost all afternoon in the tuning that is due to the misrestruction of the government in which one important resolution, such as the Ministry of Finance, is practically taken over by a prime minister who can then not respond to the obligations arising from this new role, that, in addition to the affairs of the Prime Minister, he also performs very important tasks of the finance minister. As there was no understanding of the argument we offered during yesterday, there was no, Mr. Djelic, understanding or hearing of what we were telling you three months ago. First, let us move on to amendments and additions to the Law on property taxes and the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing goods. This corrects the government's misdeeds and sleekness, which three months after it proposed taxes, decided to change them now. That should be made clear. We have nothing against this initiative. On the contrary, we asked for such a thing when the budget was debated. There was no understanding. Here we are again, three months later, later cleverly, making decisions in the interest of the citizens of this country. For us here, the key question is what the taxpayer's money is spent on, how it's spent. Are there any misses? Are the state authorities in possession of citizens' money collected on the basis of different taxes sufficiently efficient, concrete? These changes and additions to the laws we have today only maintain one agony, which has not always been a feature of our finances. You remember, Mr Djelic, when you were the finance minister, and I was the head of the parliamentary group that formed the parliamentary majority, we adopted the final budget account in 2001, and in 2002, so the budget that we discussed in parliament at the time had 400-500 pages, compared to the last year's budget, which was four or five. More seriousness is needed in public finances, both order and clear plan. There is no serious European country where citizens cannot answer the simple question of how their money is spent. What kind of services do we pay the state? How is the Ministry of Finance... You are not the talker for this subject, although you are the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration, so on the other hand you take responsibility. How did the Ministry of Finance conclude to send us amendments and amendments to the Law on Taxes on Assets and the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods, and, say, refuse to adopt a proposal to amend and supplement the Act on Excises, which we proposed here in Parliament two months ago, aware that we have nothing to look for in Brussels, which can't tell us anything other than to violate the agreements we sign with the EU? From the point of view of the average man in this country are far more important savings that home budgets would achieve if excise policy related to oil derivatives were changed. But the government can't do that, because previously agreements to another country guarantee a different treatment than the one to which it has committed by signing an agreement with the EU guaranteeing free market and full competitiveness. It's this short-breathing policy, the policy of stop -- go ahead, follow-up policy, which then repairs the unnecessary damage. If there are changes and additions to the Property Tax Act, it is clear that these changes are good, that they make some differences, that they introduce to some extent what you are talking about, and that is the concept of economic justice, justice, justice. But you, Mr. Djelic, are a state official, your government cannot bring down its policy exclusively to the ideal of justice and justice, because it is not exact. To ask people who have lost their jobs in this three years in the construction industry how much understanding they have for the ideal of justice being achieved in this way and for the ideal of justice achieved through the sanctioning of the construction industry (perhaps it was the demagogue need of the government) in such a way that the Law on Planning and Construction was adopted, which 70,000-80,000 people left out of work, and we here in Belgrade, Mr Djelic, where our parties together exercise power (without too much conflict, affair, effective to the extent that is possible), we have not achieved any income, but another year, based on the fee for construction land. Could we have otherwise defined the relationship between the state, Miskovic and Beka, and not been so traumatic for the whole country in that definition of this relationship? From the point of view of people who have lost their jobs, believe me, it is a much more important issue of their economic future and perspective than the issue of justice that is being met in this way. It is this demagogue line, or much more of an expression of impotence within the ruling coalition itself, which we have no understanding of, above all, because we have never even criticized you for any measures that may have been unpopular, from the point of view of some general relations controversial, but have also been effective in the function of some goals that need yet to benefit our society. We didn't criticize you when we signed in advance and started applying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Some other parliamentary groups are. Just because we didn't criticize you at the time, we can't understand why our government doesn't respect that agreement itself that it's starting to apply. What else needs to happen here in Parliament to talk about amendments to the Excise Act, which artificially balances what is incompatible, good and bad fuel, and bad fuel, which is otherwise more expensive here in Serbia than what is good, which comes from Europe, favours what makes it quality more expensive. Europe has said that this is unsustainable, that legal standards, directives, rules have been violated. That's what we need to change. Why isn't this part of today's debate? What else is going to happen, wait for the visit to pass at the end of March of the month, I mean visiting the Russian prime minister and doing something like that? I think it's too much hesitation and it's devastating. You know, Putin is Putin for not letting Russia do what's done here. When we talk about taxes, we talk about the need of the state to create preconditions to meet some of its obligations. Is our country capable of fulfilling those obligations? We have 600 public enterprises. Some of them truly have an excuse for the difficult position they are in. These are severe anomalies and paradoxes; we are facing heat problems in Serbia that cannot collect their claims, they cannot rule out some hospital, nursing home, school, and we need to find some other, effective answers. Mr. Djelic, the oil industry of Serbia only in the previous year had a gross profit of 360.000 euros. It exploded oil and gas on Serbia's territory worth 750,000. We need to question the efficiency of the management that previously led that company, and responsibility. How is it possible that a company that was sold for 400,000, in a business that allegedly had a historical situation and significance for Serbia, in a positive sense, we criticised it, how can it change its "blood picture" within a year? Is that perhaps an indication of what we should do with other public enterprises? Because this money collected like this, through property tax, on movable goods, through the tax that we pay on the basis of our incomes, is spent in these party companies that have the only function in service of the party state. When we talk about the loans we're taking, Mr. Djelic, there's a strategy missing again. You came here with acceptable criteria, from an economic point of view. We take credit for macroeconomic stability from the EU, from the World Bank, we have some arrangements with the IMF, but can we define some criteria by which this country is otherwise in debt? Can we know what the criteria will be by which we will take the money from the Russian Federation, since it's about the railway loan we're going to get? Can we know what the terms of the Chinese loan are? Can we ask the question of the efficiency of the projects for which the money is provided and not withdrawing because there are no necessary preconditions for such a thing? There are a lot of things written in our press, but in a serious paper I read the information that speaks of this amazing paradox – that we are actually a poor society today, as a country that is in debt to get the necessary money, money we don't spend paying interest on the funds that we've been granted, but we don't withdraw them because there are no projects that are the preconditions to be paid to us. Since you mention the World Bank, we have a lot of projects with the World Bank. One of the most important is certainly a project that connects to our road infrastructure. Hundreds of millions of dollars are about whether it's 700 or 900, at this point I don't know; we tried to find that file, but we didn't make it. But I remember very well the percentage of our approved money – 13%. Do we not need that money or do we need those who are incapable of doing something concrete with that money? You were also talking about something that I think is a very important topic, but here she was never the subject of a serious conversation, and that stems from the absence of a clear plan. To what extent will our country be in debt, Mr. Djelic? We're compared to some other countries on average less in charge, now we're about 80% of GDP. There are countries that are practically obliged and through what they produce annually. I don't mean only Greece; Croatia is in such a situation. But what I think is alarming, which is a problem for this society, is the absence of a strategy, a plan. Everyone knows, when they take credit, what they'll do with that money and treat it carefully. We're talking about funding, as you call it, reparations or reconstruction or reconstruction of a hydropower plant. What's our EPS in? The EPS, which would have to be a highly profitable company, is the last line of our government's social policy. According to the EPS, this country was treated as it was treated with NIS yesterday. The biggest trustee in the state is the EPS, and the second one stands, the biggest debtor in the country is the EPS. We had an example of Colubare. It's a system in Serbia's Elektroprivred. Can we get this straight? We were together in the government that started doing it. This is where we asked for a debate on the work of public enterprises. Let us clear this up, so that every man in this country is clear that, with the burden we put on his back with these decisions being made in the congregation, we take responsibility for him to benefit from it tomorrow. Why do the Germans have money and we don't have it? Is their management structure in state-owned companies the way it is with us? Why is a very good company like JAT put in the position it is today? The scandal was to rent a 45-year-old plane that was supposed to be driving to London today, so half of them didn't want to get on the plane. And that's what happened. We would like to be able to formulate the values on which this policy would then be built: the final account each year, the Ministry of Finance, not in an accounting sense competently, but with political weight, respectablely, not because it stems from the fact that it manages finance, but that others respect it. One of the most understated persons in the government was the finance minister. Every time she comes out with some initiative, political interests shut her up. We've had so many discussions with her exactly the same attitudes, and what she suggested was the opposite of what we're talking about, and she agrees. In finance, it's impossible. It is true that these are good loans, but if we are talking about this stability that needs the National Bank of Serbia, look what the governor tells you. Who's the governor criticizing? Who does he see as a problem in this macro-financial and economic stability system? He recognizes the crisis generator in the government and governmental measures. The governor now criticises the Prime Minister for, say, the ambition to extend credit payments by making some deal with banks, and then leaving those who took credits with the possibility that the principal would not pay back, that they would only pay interest. Well, the governor responded immediately, with a very clear view that it would push inflation. As inflation grows, the governor must artificially raise the value of the money, changing the interest rate reference rate, and then we get the paradox that we have a reference interest rate of 12.5%, and, let's say, in the countries of which we take these loans 0.5%, 1%, etc. If we're in debt to keep our currency stable, don't take any moves that directly endanger what we're doing together right now. Of course it's in our interest to make a stable currency, but its stability can't stem from artificial measures, from demagogy, but, let's say, from such exact facts as the ones we're talking about today. We can spend as much as we create. If we have any, we have to work more. If there are no results, let's find those who will produce the results. Very simply, a country in crisis, such as Serbia, could not afford to have practically no finance minister. We recognize someone's mistrust and unpreparedness to get into the business. You were the finance minister in one government, you have experience; Serbia was not a paradise on earth when you took the job. We need a finance minister, not a prime minister who will take that title in order for Serbia to be without a finance minister. This is not the most important topic in which we need the minister, but the day-to-day person, ready to do the job more efficiently and better than Mrs Dragutinovic did, is what Serbia needs. We don't have that. We were waiting for four now for you to come here and defend these laws, although you cannot take responsibility for the fact that we asked for this in December, so no one listened to us, that we were then talking about a more direct tax policy, about lower tax rates, about tax lending, about helping young people through a different approach to employment policy. It was all about serious debate, and there was no hearing about anything like that. I think we should support what you have proposed as regards the amendment of the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods and amending and supplementing the Law on property taxes, but there is little use for local self-government, that is more than clear. They need much more property, which is not returned to them. What is very important, this will not win the justice that Serbia needs, these will only be clogged and covered by the mistakes previously unnecessarily made, because there have been enough instructions to show such a thing. What's very important, an effective state, with its costs, but also the results, is something we still have to work on, because this isn't how it gets to it. This is proof that we don't have her.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51840	Thank you. Before I give my word to MP Zoran Kasalovic, just to correct the mistake I made by notifying the time available to individual parliamentary groups. I apologize to the LDP parliamentary group, the time available is 15 minutes and 36 seconds, given that the mandate of the MP has been verified. National MP Zoran Kasalovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51841	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice-President and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS-JS Parliament Club will support the draft laws on amendments and amendments in the field of tax legislation, primarily on property and tax on use, holding and bearing goods, as well as one set of draft laws that make up a financial arrangement, as regards the granting of guarantees, confirmation of agreements or memorandas. First of all, I would like, in the context of laws that are on the agenda to talk about laws in the field of tax policy and one general public finance environment in the Republic of Serbia, to make a few views and share some of the dilemmas that have been emerging for several months or a year and are related to this topic. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, I would like to say that a few months ago we had legitimate protests from a number of citizens, users of freight vehicles whose maximum mass is up to 3.5 tonnes. We appreciate that this is the right reaction from the government, which also meets the promise of a resolute minister of infrastructure. This proposal exempts them from taxation. This is certainly the support and incentive for all those who use these cargo vehicles for economic purposes, for the transport of agricultural products, re-compromisations. Of course it will be a significant incentive for their action. When it comes to amending and supplementing the property tax law, I would like to say that the property tax is essentially not of great fiscal importance in one country, but as a rule it has one social and economic effect. We really want to support the measures and the bill that goes in the direction of proportionate taxation, according to the economic power of the obligor, and the introduction of the principle of neutrality, which was spoken of by the Vice-President of the Government, which means that we consider it justified to tax on building land in public property and to rent agricultural land in the state property, to tax the area over ten acres, i.e. to clearly specify that these ten acres are exempt from taxation. Of course, in this context, we support a clear definition that this change allows municipalities to have a discretionary right to decide within the proposed rates what is best for local self-government, but by estimating both the decision and the government's needs not to cause such a debt significantly higher on this basis this year and that it can be up to 60% if it is established at 2010 level. In the light of the law, we can read that this is one basis for higher municipality income, since property tax is the original income of local self-government. I know that the topic in professional debates was that the idea that local self-governments were in this way particularly motivated to work better and more thoroughly to determine this tax, and that in their territory they could better determine all taxpayers and in a fair way cut this tax, and therefore have significant revenues, however, I would like to say that this finding should be accepted with a certain reserve, because in practice we had different cases from the municipality to the municipality. Some municipalities, of course, more developed and richer, had infrastructure and professional people and were able to get into the business immediately; less developed, due to the lack of personnel, equipment and everything that follows, they later entered into one of these jobs, with all the problems he requires. Secondly, which is very important for these underdeveloped municipalities, and the very base on which this tax is cut, the market value of the property is small, and it should not be expected that this form can significantly fix the budgets of these municipalities. On the contrary, they are still very dependent on the transfer from the Republic of Serbia, that part of the transfer makes a significant part of the budget, and I think that this should be taken into account and thought of how to help these underdeveloped municipalities, with all these problems. When it comes to the general public finance environment in the Republic of Serbia, I used the opportunity to do more times when on the agenda I say that I really believe that the government has significantly improved, changed and improved one general environment, and above all by amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act, where fiscal rules have been established. Of course, by adopting this new budget, we had the results of these provisions. Of course, more responsible fiscal policy is being conducted in this way, public debt is being taken into account, and this is certainly a very significant determination to improve the general competitiveness of the Republic of Serbia. Last year the State Audit Institute started to work, we had the first report; this year a much better control of the use of the budget and each spent dinar was carried out. Of course, after such two reports, when it comes to budget spending, nothing is the same anymore. All those who are in a position to spend the resources of citizens have in mind that someone will control it, not only the deliberate use, but also the purpose for which these funds and results have been used. I think it's also important to fight corruption and crime, even in society. It's improved, so it contributes to one better environment. I would like to make certain views and dilemmas about what the subject has been for the past year – tax reform. The reform of the tax administration, the tax administrations, was one subject of conflicting views. In theory, among other things, it is a well-known principle of the stability of the tax system; it states that without undue need authorities should not define themselves for some significant changes in tax policy, i.e. tax reform, because the tax world is interested in having predictability and stability in this regard and that in these business operations it knows what it can expect in that country. However, the theory also recognises and gives a dilemma regarding the vision of these tax reforms, so-called. radical and partial tax reform. Radical tax reforms are considered to eliminate a tax form in full or replace it with some other tax form, while partial ones can be characterised as changes in tax policy and concern changes in tax rates, possibly some exemptions and exemptions. It is concluded that this principle mainly applies to these radical tax reforms. This is what I'm saying for the reason why, here, these tax laws and some that we had at the end of last year don't fall under this principle and can be characterized as partial tax changes. On the other hand, we had great dilemmas and discussions when the issue of tax reform and the observation of tax laws and tax forms took place in the role of the new growth of the Republic of Serbia and the issue of tax evasion. Thus, there is clear what tax forms are very suitable for tax evasion – tax on the income of citizens; with corporate income tax, this form can clearly affect the growth of the economy of a country. On the other hand, it is clear that the value added tax and excise duties are tax forms which are not subject to tax evasion. When proposals were made to implement certain tax changes on the income of citizens of such an idea and such topics were considered a very significant tax reform. In essence, the idea, which I also think is good, is going towards supporting the competitiveness of the workforce, with the desire to increase the non-taxable minimum and to consider the level and rate of taxes and contributions, because this non-taxable amount that would be increased would be exempt only directly from the income tax of citizens, until it is excluded from the particular tax, because it also spends on the value added tax. I appreciate that in this way, working on black and working on gray, which we have when it comes to income taxes, and we all know that... Working on black exists, without paying any legal contributions or profits, and we have that so-called. work on gray where employers usually pay the minimum which is not subject to any taxes and contributions, and the other part either does not exist or is paid to some flows that cannot be washed away. We appreciate that in this way there would certainly be some changes and improvements in these phenomena. It seems to me that when this tax form is at issue, we should think about another principle, which predicts the moderation of tax burden. It seems to me that the Deputy Prime Minister is really competent here. He's talking about that there's relative and absolute load and so on. Lafer's guilt in theory, which shows that with a lower tax rate and a higher tax rate, the same tax revenue can be achieved. So, in this tax form, we should consider perhaps increasing the non-taxable amount and reducing taxes and contributions to achieve the same income. We'd get more competitive labour, relieve employers and introduce all these flows into the legal sphere. It would be reduced, of course, by the tax ejaculation. I want to, and I have used the Assembly's pay phone several times, to present the information we heard last year, from now on former ministers, that tax evasion in highly developed EU countries is at 15% of the gross social product, with us reaching about 30%. If that information can be true and it is true, I haven't checked it out, I heard it, then it is certainly one signal that a reform of the tax administration should be considered. The tax administration is with us, I have to say here publicly, it had prosperity, and you know it, when it was in your jurisdiction (and I was working at the time). She has, therefore, experienced organisational and IT prosperity, but it seems to me that she cares about it and now there is room for it to improve organisationally, to train slightly professionally, to perhaps improve this system of evaluation and motivation of workers. Of course, here you can also think about other changes concerning tax and policy issues, it can be done to make certain tax solutions, simplifying the administrative costs of the tax administration, above all, into tax collection, which would significantly improve revenues. It is not unknown that we have certain problems here, because we are a small country. Large countries, with a large number of taxpayers, have fixed costs, which distribute to that large number of taxpayers, and they are relatively smaller, unlike smaller countries, such as ourselves. On the other hand, here's this income tax I was talking about... Some studies say that due to the payment of income tax to the taxpayer's residence up to 10% of the municipality loses it, because employers simply cannot determine their residence in this way of operating payment, or are not interested. There is a reduction in revenues that can be made by municipalities, so there is also the possibility of more effective collection, with less administrative costs. In the end, I'd like to share some more views. First of all, fiscal goals in theory are known: economic, social and political, health, but there are also demographics. The Republic of Serbia faces a major fall in birth and this is indeed a complex problem; in particular, empty border, border areas in our country. I appreciate that this subject could be considered; I know that tax policy is not the only way to act and speed up, but I think that it should be considered that this problem is solved by a bachelor tax, which once existed in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, France and Romania, or by some significant relief for families with a larger number of members, or children. It may thus give one impulse and a stimulant to speed up the birth rate in the Republic of Serbia. Here, with these views, questions, findings, dilemmas, I want to say in the end that the SPS-JS Parliament Club will in principle support this set of draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51842	Seventeen minutes and fifty-five seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51843	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djelic, today is your first time in parliament in a new role as Deputy Prime Minister. If I'm not mistaken, this is your fourth term, so you are entering the ranks of ministers who were in the highest government after Tomica Milosavljevic. I'm glad to see you here today, but, with all due respect to what you did when you were Minister of Finance and after that, I think today was extremely important for Mr. Cvetkovic to come, for several reasons. Mr. Cvetkovic has taken over the Ministry of Finance. Today we expected to talk to him about some of the details he said yesterday that the Assembly is not the place or moment of government's election is not the time when concrete measures are discussed. Yesterday, he pointed out several times that the government's choice needs to discuss the objectives, but such discussions are where the tax system is being discussed, where it is said that we should exchange views on the concrete measures that will lead us to the achievement of these declared objectives. You will agree that in every country, in every democratic society, the tax system is one of the basic systems. Minister Dragutinovic, who from a few days ago did not, began the mandate and spoke throughout the mandate, the mandate ended and failed to implement this comprehensive and thorough reform of the tax system. It was one of the basic things she pointed to, but unfortunately, it wasn't done. What is particularly worrying is that such important laws, such as laws that regulate the tax system, are so often changed. These two laws were in the process only two months ago. You know very well, you worked in some countries at a time of transition before you entered the Serbian government in 2001, that bad laws that don't often change are better than good laws that change very often. One of the basic conditions for attracting foreign investors is a stable tax system. If you change important laws that regulate tax matter every two months, even if these changes are in several members, then you send a message that there is no certainty and stability of one such system. You remember the announcement that the VAT will change to south fruit and hotel services. Finally, in the debate, some amendments were adopted. The President of the Republic returned the law, although it was included in the budget. In the end, there is no law. It's a similar thing with these double excises. Then we get into a situation where the costs for opening up Serbia's companies are one-time expenses, among the lowest in the world. They are hundreds, two hundred euros, in dinar equivalent. But that's why annual expenses, for example, are companies, among the biggest in the world. Now, what we've done to someone is we have a one-time fee, and every year we have a drastic fee, absolutely nothing contributes. The property tax law is extremely important. It's one of the basic incomes of local self-government. Tax rates are up. Whether it's good or bad, we can talk, but the point is that it didn't go into a comprehensive reform either, that it wasn't a complete reform of that system, but it was a slow change in certain provisions. The second thing, local self-government has been denied the transfer of 55 billion dinars in the last three years under the savings and global economic crisis, and then returned to them local revenues. You know very well that this administration is not working, that there are serious problems and that in this way it will not be resolved, as is the return of property to local self-government being delayed indefinitely. You've proposed two loans today. For this loan from the EU, you say it is extremely favourable, 200,000 euros. Here's a guarantee for another loan we voted here a few days ago. The basic question is, in the first two months, and that's the question of the public debt strategy... Unfortunately, you cannot answer that question, because it is a matter for the finance minister. When we look at the budget implementation data, I don't know if you've had a chance to see them, in the first two months, the total deficit of around 200,000 euros, and the public debt in the first two months, not counting these two loans, has changed by 500,000 euros. These loans are exclusively for the regulation of the budget deficit. With these two loans, that's another 500,000 euros. The public debt management strategy is defined in the Memorandum of Economic Policy. What changed in the public debt management strategy if we withdrew practically the total amount of this year's deficit in the first month of this year? What's the secret? It is a completely different approach than the one the minister had before it was clear that the reconstruction would take place and that it would be left without its function. Does that mean anything else? What's this about? What is the question for the Prime Minister, or Minister of Finance: what is the public debt today? When we look at the official report of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is about 40% of the gross social product. When we look at the National Bank and its reports, it is far more – the difference is three billion euros. When we hear Mr. Jaeger, he says the Ministry of Finance in the Republic Government doesn't account well for public debt and that he is several percent higher than the Ministry of Finance shows. I assume that you were at the interview with the IMF mission and I suppose he said that to you, as he said in an interview with the February 24th list. I agree that these percentages can talk a lot, but they don't have to be the most important. Whether the public debt is 41 or 42, the government of the Republic of Serbia said in the Budgetary System Act that it is 45 per cent of gross social product, it does not matter. It is essential that this debt is returned and that is the basic category of borrowing. No debt is free of charge. I agree there are less or more favourable loans. But what is favourable today for six months or a year can be very unfavorable. Many Serbian citizens who took long-term loans for apartments or other things a few years ago had favourable wars, so in two years the situation changed dramatically and those wars became far more expensive. It's a similar thing with public debt. Not counting the principal's payment, interest payments are 46 billion dinars this year, in 2008, it was 14, 2009 and in 2010 35 billion. It is clear that the next years of the debt payment will also be extremely high. Since you were Minister of Finance, I have had the opportunity to co-operate and the question was raised why the Serbian government and why the state of Serbia does not have a part in the finance ministry that will deal with the cost of certain loans. How much will each new loan increase Serbia's gross social product? There's no unfavourable loan. Let's ask Mr. Colakovic if we should be in charge of several billion more to increase pensions, Mr. Colakovic will say – of course we should. Ask Zarko Obradovic, about the educators, if we should be in charge of education, everyone will tell you that we should. But that's why there are priorities, and that's why, based on priorities, we need to define what's really favourable and what's not. The International Monetary Fund has told us that in the last two and a half years 423,000 people have lost their jobs. Official statistics, including those employed in the gray zone, report a decrease in employment — about 250,000. And when we look at the Memorandum, which is probably an official document, which the government respects and does everything, in 2011, the number of employees compared to 2010 will grow by a thousand people, which means that thousands of people will work more this year, the number of employees in 2012 will be 26,000 more than it was last year, and in 2013, the number of employees will be 65,000 more than it was. So in five or six years, we can expect all those who have lost their jobs in these two and a half years to get that job. What about those 19,000 companies that got the conditions to go bankrupt? Mr. Djelic, since you're in the business of economics, you know well that without new jobs and without employment, there is no repayment of public debt or other things. What we expected the Prime Minister or the finance minister to tell us is what the risks of our foreign debt are. Public debt is not what we know, because from different sources we have different data that differs by several billion euros, but we know that external debt has roughly reached that limit of 80% of gross social product, counting both private and state debt. In doing so, the largest part of that debt is in euro, about three quarters are euro, ten percent dollars, five percent Swiss francs, and ten percent are special draw rights. What's the risk of changing course and changing course on paying off this debt? Secondly, inflation is not only a problem for Serbia, but also a global problem. You know very well that Canada, Australia, a large number of countries have significantly increased interest rates in recent weeks, their central banks have increased interest rates. How will this affect our public debt? What was favourable at one point, because it was a strategy to solve problems, crisis, is already a strategy that has been overcome. The interest rates of central banks are growing, and this will largely reflect the interest rates to which our public debt is tied. You know very well that our public debt is mainly tied and agreed at variable interest rates. Every change in the global financial market affects the difficult payment of our public debt. The other serious problem is that it is obvious that the state record broadcasting strategy has failed. The auctions were extremely unsuccessful in one period. The government of the Republic of Serbia has begun broadcasting bonds related to the euro. On the one hand, the prime minister publicly points out that we are moving towards deeuroisation, the National Bank emits bonds that are dinar, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to fill the budget and solve the deficit problem, emits bonds that are tied to the euro and directly collapses the domestic currency. It's a well-known thing when banks buy government bonds and charters are credited as risk-free charters, as the state pays the safest. If the interest on these records is 15%, then who is it worth crediting to the economy and the citizens? Turns out the banking system actually credits the state. This is where the Budgetary System Act was passed. That Budgetary System Act has defined a lot of things. It was adopted on 12 October 2010, but we changed it already in December. Do you know why? Because salaries and pensions couldn't be paid as it said in the Budgetary System Act. What was a projection in October turned out to be no longer standing. This same Budgetary System Act also defines that our public debt should be 45% of GDP, but it also defines a maximum fiscal deficit; it is in the November rebalancing, which was adopted, far higher than it should at that time, just to open the space for 2011 and 2012. Now the question is how often are we going to change the Budgetary System Act? When we don't have a strategy, and we say there's no need to discuss strategy, then the question is whether we're going to change the Budgetary System Act first. Here, in 15 days it takes a new change, a new indexation of wages and pensions. Will this be compared to three months of inflation, as it says in the law, or will the Budgetary System Act be re-changed to do something else or will the government decide to break that law again? These are the important issues that we should have discussed today – how the government will fight inflation, how public debt will be managed, how we will meet these challenges for the internal financial market, how we will do everything that awaits us both in the year ahead and in the coming years. That's why Mr. Cvetkovic was supposed to be here today, and if we avoid talking about it all, then it's clear what the result will be – we'll get worse and worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51844	Fifteen minutes and twenty seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot help but agree that I would like to see the Prime Minister in this discussion, or Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic, too, because, as he said in his exhibition yesterday, Serbian citizens should be better off right away. I guess it's from today. New ministers have been appointed, some of them are old, the Government Act has been amended, the Ministry Act has been amended, but we are discussing the old laws and laws proposed by the old minister, who is no longer in this government, and I think that whoever was uniting the work of all ministries should also defend this law. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, as you said yourself, the property tax is not the original revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget; I fully agree. Tax legislation has been passed that regulates the original incomes of local self-government units. You weren't in that government back then, but I have to say that this law has deceived local self-government units, or municipalities. The Republic has kept all those taxes that are the easiest to charge. The tax on property is the tax most difficult to charge, it is the most difficult to establish tax bases and what property our citizens have in their possession so that they can also be taxpayers based on it. Local self-government units have inherited certain databases on the property of citizens living in the territory of these municipalities, and there may be a part of your responsibility, because you ran the Republic Tax Administration for a time, as Minister of Finance – there are very few municipalities where these databases are correct and where the tax bases are correct. I'm saying, conditionally correct, it means with some probability it's 70% or 80%. We had a situation that citizens were getting tax settlements for assets they didn't own at all, that they had to write objections to these tax solutions, that they paid taxes, and when they got rid of them and the funds came back to them -- who knows when and who's going to pay them back. The purpose of this law, at least as said by the Minister of Finance at the time, and our current fellow MP, who is not here in the O.R., because that's his law, I mean Mladjan Dinkic, is to decentralise the tax system and give one part of the tax revenues to local self-government units. You can imagine what it looks like when a municipality like Golubac municipality, with about 11,000 or 12,000 inhabitants and a budget of 130,000,000 -140,000,000 dinars, should make its tax administration, the department of its tax administration, should prepare a database that is property and who are all taxpayers, should issue tax resolutions, charge tax obligations and control tax returns and tax collection. That's how long this decentralisation system has been going, where this government has been leading us in some continuity for years. It was formerly the Transfer Assets Act, so each municipality stressed how much it should receive from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then we settled it with some general law, which we don't even adhere to today. Because the Republic, for its known reasons, does not forward funds in accordance with the law, resorts to an increase in the tax base of the property tax, which is charged by units of local self-government. All the weight of the incompetence of the Government or its spending of money, which is not proportionate to income, you are turning a large part of the units of local self-government, which must do various jobs that are its original business, entrusted by the Republic, to take care of the municipal infrastructure, etc. Not to mention how extremely good this tax is, for example, for Serbia's sake. I find it extremely funny to hear the criticisms of the current mayor towards some ministers here in the government, what they do and why they receive money, and in the budget of the city of Belgrade there are more funds for municipal activities, travel infrastructure than for the entire Republic. Then we get into a lot of trouble. The greatest burden of all these tax reforms and the biggest problems will be those municipalities that are poor and which have no developed economy. The question is, do we really mean well to our units of local self-government, to do these jobs that exist and allow them to do it, or are we going to put all the weight on them, under the pretext that these are taxes that they have to make? However, when the property tax, i.e. when taxes were made in the original incomes of units of local self-government, the coalition was not in power throughout Serbia, counting units of local self-government. Then he could have allowed that luxury in the government at the time, because she often blamed other parties for having to pay that kind of tax. Now, thanks to some coalition arrangements, good work and Minister Markovic, who in a rather violent way introduces DS to power in all municipalities, you sacrifice your people in a certain way because many citizens will see them and who take their skin off their backs. It seems that it is only important that the Prime Minister, here at Andric's wedding, and not in Nemanja, be protected and that he is not the one to blame for everything. Of course, everything that's going on in the country and how it's done with his blessing and his consent. Let you screw it up some time and say, "This law no longer applies, I said so." There is no amendment or addition to this law, to remove technical errors, but only at one point – no longer applies. When it comes to the law, Mr. Minister, about tax on use, keeping and carrying goods, it's your law. You were the finance minister back then in 2001. You made it up because there was a tax on cell phones back then. You've come to think of it... And the weapon, which was never charged, but on cell phones it was, so then you figured you'd call it a luxury tax. Mr. Minister, we now have amendments and additions to that law, where the luxury tax is abolished, and that is to have a freight vehicle whose load capacity is less than three and a half tons. You say -- here, I'm fulfilling my original idea, that tax doesn't exist, because a freight vehicle carrying up to three and a half tons is not a luxury, it's a means of working. But, Mr. Minister, it was introduced only two months ago, then you were in this government. Where'd you get that ex-sense? It was the minister from your party. Why didn't you tell him why these taxes existed? Why did you raise your hand as a member of the government? Now you're supposed to be helping the citizens out here, meeting them and cutting that tax. Let's be honest, why are we even getting to the point that there's a tax on freight vehicles? Because you have abolished the tax (or reduced it) on boats, yachts, rafts, aircrafts. To make up for the budget deficit, you remembered to tax the vehicle truck and van. You should be ashamed of that. It has nothing to do with luxury. You've just changed and supplemented the Law on Tax on Use, Holding and Wearing goods from December of the month, or you've significantly reduced the tax base. When it comes to these other laws, I would leave for the second part of ten minutes, as much as I have as an authorised representative, and for a debate in principle. I'd like the minister to answer some of these questions for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51846	The time used by the authorised representative of the parliamentary group is nine minutes and forty-five seconds. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51847	Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened carefully to the opening words of the Deputy Prime Minister. It is obvious that the only thing in which we agree on these laws is that the most important law in this set of laws is the bill to confirm the credit agreement between the EU and the Republic of Serbia and the NBS. Here you were saying, I don't know on what basis, that we're going to save 1.5 - 2 billion euros based on this loan and other loans, if I understand correctly. Even if so, I am not getting into it, it is enough for the Serbian public to know that every year we have a deficit in external trade with the EU, which is about 2.6 billion euros, from January to December of last year. So, even if what you said is true, we will save on taking "favourable loans", I am responsible for saying that it is an even greater number and greater damage only annually than the exchange in foreign trade with the EU. Because you certainly know that, according to the European Commission's latest report, 57 or 58% of trade is taking place between the Republic of Serbia and the EU. I am pleased that you have confessed, and I must agree with you that EU policies, in economic terms, according to the Republic of Serbia and the IMF, are conditioned, that they are common. Finally, the EU fama as a "good cop" and the IMF as bad after your recognition will no longer be in circulation, as it is clear that these two institutions, the IMF and the EU, are leading the same, harmonised policy towards the Republic of Serbia. The opening parts of the EU loan agreement already show that it is concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia... The governor represents the National Bank of Serbia, on the other hand, it is not clear to me how it is possible for the European Commission not to represent even Mr Barroso, who is the President of the European Commission, some of the commissioners, but has allowed you to be the Director-General for Economy in the process of negotiations on the other hand. I don't think it's the same level, and I think it's a kind of, I must say, humiliation for the Republic of Serbia. Also, I would draw your attention, if the European Council had already approved allegedly macroeconomic assistance, as it says in the opening parts of this loan, and you have told us here that you are the coordinator for this macroeconomic aid, from the members of this loan, from the opening part, from Annex one, from Annex two, it is not about any macroeconomic aid, but about a loan which, in order for the scandal to be even greater, does not know the interest rate. It is only known that the loan will be allegedly taken with the intervention of the European Commission, the European Council's order, and is not known from whom. I can only assume it's the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, because under this loan it says it's the UK's applicable right. From a legal point of view, it is total nonsense, you will admit, because yet the European Union, you know it, is based on another kind of and tradition of law, on continental law. I don't have to remind you, but because of the citizens of Serbia, I'm going to say that the UK is not in Schengen, it's not in the eurozone. And you know how much she opposed that very important document, the European Charter of Rights. I'm not clear from the legal point of view, but from the economic point of view, it may already be agreed that this loan be taken from some English bank, some American bank or from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is based in London and whose main shareholders are Great Britain and the United States. Also, if it is already an alleged EU macro-economic aid, I do not understand why you agreed to the European Commission as a mediator. Why don't you say it? This is seen in this book, whose editor is Tanja Miscevic, who cannot be said to be critical of the EU. You will see that the European Commission, which is gluffing here, still has less influence than for example. COREPER, i.e. Ambassadors to the EU or the Commission for the implementation of decisions. In that sense, it is again a kind of inadequate loan arrangement between the Republic of Serbia, the NBS and the European Commission or the EU, however you wish. I will not deal with this hierarchy here, but you mentioned that the EU is a legal person; then you should say that there are much more influential institutions in that legal face than the European Commission, for example. European Council. I do not need to remind you of the famous statement made by Jacques Delor, who was nevertheless the most influential President of the European Commission, who said that the European Commission cannot achieve much in practice and in the way the EU works. However, it is already one species, I will not say deception to the public, but incorrect information on real relations in the EU. The preamble of the loan says the EU Council provided macro-financial assistance to Belgrade at Serbia's request, in line with an existing IMF programme. It is good and it is good to finally remove the gloves and to know that what the IMF is looking for, more specifically its representatives in the Republic of Serbia, Mr Lissovic and the head of the mission for Serbia, Albert Jager, is also looking for the EU. What's concrete? It is enough to look at several of the latest statements by these representatives and you will see that these requirements are in line with the EU. So, Mr. Lisowik says it should sell Telecom because it would reportedly help reduce public debt. So we're selling something to pay off the debt, not to raise our competitiveness, as convinced by the prime minister. Also, he's against unwarranted union concessions. At a time when inflation is 10%, you'll admit it's not very good, it's even harmful for our citizens' and employees' standards. And, he supports NBS policy, which raised the reference interest rate to 12% at the time Governor Soskic says inflation is supposed to be 6%. So this does not agree with real practice, nor with real inflation in the Republic of Serbia. Also, Mr. Jaeger, means the EU, unanimously supports the increase in electricity of 13.5% and convinces us of something that is impossible, that it will not raise inflation, which you will admit, for every student of the first year of economic college of nonsense. In Article 1 Agreements with the EU, i.e. It is said to be delivered in two parts per 100m euros, however, that the duration of eight years is already in Article 3. The European Commission will be able to cancel the loan, which means it is a conditional credit, due to some emergency circumstances. What extraordinary circumstances these are in capital markets are is not clear and does not appear in this contract. It opens up a great opportunity for abuse. Believe me, I don't think that's well agreed because the Republic of Serbia in this article has no right to compensation. Also, Article 4 of this loan agreement makes it clear that the Republic of Serbia, i.e. its citizens, from the budget, pay the total amount of fees and costs related to financial transactions, as well as to prepare and execute this transaction. So, the preparation of the loan, the cost of the loan, and we'll see in the members following this, the arrival of the so-called. European Commission experts in Serbia will be paid by the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. So it's not about a favourable loan. Far from being a macro-economic aid; it is one credit that is more than favourable to the European Commission, which is an intermediary in this business. Article 4 speaks of an independent law firm that is acceptable to the European Commission. I don't know what that means, believe me. It is said that the EU is asking the Republic of Serbia that the Justice Ministry also confirm the contract, which is again inadequate when on the other hand it does not know who is signing the loan on behalf of the European Commission. It is not signed by Barroso, nor by the EU commissioner, but I can assume, because there is no signature or name here, that it is the head of the Economic Affairs Directorate. It is a directive that is beneath the ordinary member of the Commission, Commissioner, not to discuss the President of the Commission or the European Council, etc. Article 6 states that the European Commission will further condition credit based on its findings to verify that the economic policy of the Republic of Serbia is in line with the European Commission's guidelines, meaning the IMF and all that I have already mentioned. In Article 5. The Republic of Serbia is bound, I quote, "will not require credit reprogramming or any loan release". How is that possible? How are such detailed provisions possible, and no credits will be taken from anyone, no interest, no basic parts of the loan? It is also said in Article 6, it is scandalous that the Republic of Serbia will pay the interest rate in accordance with the written notice of the European Commission. This contract shows that the last deadline for the European Commission's written notice is 15 days before the first tranche is delivered. So, the Republic of Serbia, the NBS and citizens of the Republic of Serbia will not know what the interest is until 15 days before the fact that the first tranche of credit is delivered! It's a scandal in both legal and economic terms. In Article 6, I must say, it is shyly mentioned that it is also intended to pay a tight interest. So you don't know the basic interest, but it's known that a tight interest will be imposed at the height of the annual budget, which is now around 1.9%. I'll remind you, just a few years ago, in 2008, it was about 5%. So we know the tight interest, we know that it's variable, we know that it can be very unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia, but we don't know who to borrow from, how much the basic interest is. All we have are floscules and phrases, in terms of the famous that the EU has no alternative, that it is supposed to be EU macro-economic assistance. I am responsible, and the SRS, that this is not about any macroeconomic assistance, but that it is about a conditional loan, which is very unfavourable for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the NBS. In this interest-bearing context, Article 6 clearly states that the Republic of Serbia is obliged to pay not only a tighten interest, but all costs and expenditures. Also, in Article 7, again in the Libyan context, it is said that the lender, i.e. The European Commission or someone behind it, possibly the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, will not include an early repayment clause in the terms and provisions of this loan unless the borrower explicitly requires it. However, in Article 9, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to compensate for all costs and allowances, commissions, interest loss suffered due to early repayment. So, even if, by any miracle, the Republic of Serbia gets the strength and economic resources to pay for the early loan, which neither interest nor interest is known, it will be impossible. In fact, it will not be possible, because it is jeopardising this interest rate and all the administrative and other costs charged by the European Commission, our alleged friend, the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, Article 8 explicitly states that the Republic of Serbia will bear all the costs and expenses of the loan payment, as well as any other costs related to the loan. What are the other costs? Serbia must pay the costs, quote, obtain legal opinions, credit documentation, rating costs and, of course, travel costs. What does that mean in practice? That someone will come, for example, from the European Commission or from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, determine the conditions of credits, in which no interest is known, or whether all 200m euros will be paid, and those costs will be paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is the right European path, and that is what is trying to hide behind some phrases that the EU has no alternative and that we will live better if we join the EU. This loan and all economic data show that this will not happen and that we will not live as citizens in Western Europe, but as citizens in Romania, Bulgaria, not to quote other examples, as in Hungary etc. And you know what happens there, you know what the crisis is, and you know what Prime Minister Orban is doing -- he's trying to save the country from EU terms, the IMF, by introducing financial taxes to banks, foreign businesses from the EU. So that's the goal that you get when you go a path without an alternative. Also, the Republic of Serbia is obliged (it is not known to whom, as it is not known who on the other hand is signing this unfavourable document) to provide relevant information and documents to the other Contracting Party. Who? I ask you openly, who? Does Mr Barroso, who is responsible for finance, the European Council, which has real power in that institution, in that EU formation, any unnamed head of directorate who is under the EU's commissioner or perhaps these committees that have real power and which direct the real work of the European Commission? I don't see any detailed wording here either. In Article 9, the contract is conditioned that the payment of this loan will be a priority and will be conditioned to another, allegedly, as you say, with favourable EU loans. So, if it happens that the Republic of Serbia, because of the conditions of the IMF and the EU, comes to a kind of crisis, is on the verge of bankruptcy, such as Ireland or Greece, then the priority will have this unfavourable loan, which is not known how much interest there will be, and I am telling you that it will be more than unfavourable and that it deprives exactly the way the European Bank works to rebuild and develop and all those creditors behind it and behind the debt of the Republic of Serbia. Article 11 shyly states that on the other hand it will be signed by the Head of the Directorate-General for Economic and Financial Affairs of the European Commission. On the other hand, here we have a list of Serbian ministers, governors and, we see, we also have a guarantee of the minister of justice. You'll admit it's a little inappropriate, because yet we're a serious state, I hope, in that sense, we're humiliating ourselves, in legal and economic terms, that the order of the people who run this country is being arranged, and on the other hand, you don't know who that clerk is. I think that, since it is your partner, you should have talked to Mr Barroso or the Commissioner for Finance in the European Commission, so they could sign it and get some kind of seriousness, and this is more than unserious. Of course, Article 12 speaks of the real purpose of this loan, which is to regulate the conditions under which the EU will make available to the borrower. The Republic of Serbia has the money from the relevant financial transactions arranged from the EU's cost. So, the European Commission is just one kind of intermediary that will earn on this loan and that will allow someone, whether the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development or a private bank, to earn on the budget of the Republic of Serbia and citizens who are filling that budget. It is also particularly scandalous, from a legal point of view, that in Article 12. You are calling for a Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. To explain to our citizens, it's a Lisbon contract. The Lisbon Treaty is extremely unfavourable for new members and for the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to give you this book again. She's the editor of Tanja Miscevic again, and she has nothing to do with us again. This is an edition on European values, on EU conditions. It clearly states in the contract that the European Commission will be one-third smaller since 2014, which means that if one day, God forbid, the Republic of Serbia enters the EU, we will not have a commissioner in the EU after five years. That's what's waiting for us when we get into that supposed paradise. Also, in Article 42 of the Lisbon Treaty, which you are calling upon in this loan, it says completely unnecessary, that all EU members, so, in future, if Serbia, don't God, one day be a member of that organisation, will have to assist in the case of armed conflicts with other EU members in line, I quote, "with obligations under the North Atlantic Alliance". So the path to the EU is the path to the NATO Pact. This is clearly in the Lisbon Treaty, which you are referring to in Article 12. These are the same as in the case of the IMF, two related institutions, two related organisations and no phrases about the European Union without alternative, about any neutrality, cannot hide that truth. Also, the Lisbon Treaty can bring us another very unfavourable provision. You know it is forecast, not yet concretely realised, but is foreseen by the Lisbon Treaty to introduce a prosecutor to protect the EU's financial interests. Imagine now entering the European Union and that prosecutor here says that the good loans of European banks, which are the largest in Europe after Moldova. What are you gonna do? Nothing. Aki communitre will be above the rights of the Republic of Serbia. As you predicted in Article 13. The EU loan agreement that the Court of Justice of the European Union, which no one respects in the European Union, the first Germany does not respect it, is above the rights of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51848	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51849	A few elements, since there's been a lot of talk about this arrangement. You see, it's interesting to hear the political views of your party, which is quite clearly opposed to Serbia's entry into the EU. I must say that the radical party has a clear view – it is against Serbia's entry into the EU. However, by explaining this arrangement, you have given a large number of arguments that unequivocally indicate that any country that enters the EU is absolutely not giving up its sovereignty. As you said yourself, and the most powerful President of the European Commission in the last 40 years, Jacques Delor, you quoted him as saying again, he said how much this commission actually depends on the space that the member states are giving. And it is certain that the EU is not the place where sovereignty is transferred politically, in a way that is without a return. You mentioned the Lisbon Agreement. In some countries that are extremely Eurosceptic, such as the UK, a procedure has been requested not only to enter, but also to leave the EU. Under the Lisbon Agreement, there is a legally justified procedure to get out of that European Union if the people, who remain sovereign in the sovereign state, feel that this is no longer in his interest. That is why, when we offer a European path, it is a path in which both advantages and disadvantages are weighed. Nothing is perfect in life, but, as you have proven brilliantly, Mr Mirovic, on this financial case, it does not come to the minds of the EU member states that a commission is making their fate. That is why I think that the radical party should revise its own position, because you have now spoken from the perspective of the reality of the European Union. You are right, the European Commission cannot do much without the Member States knowing it and not being approved by KOREPER, which you mentioned, which represents the permanent body of ambassadors of all EU member states. Serbia, too, will have its own ambassador when it is a member of the EU, who will participate equally in these discussions. In this sense, the EU is actually one form of balance, a balance between those domains where there is an interest in working together and others where it is better to stay at national level. That's how it's gonna be in the future. Since you are a lawyer, I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Court of Germany in Karlsrue two years ago, at the time of the Lisbon Agreement debated, made a very important decision, which actually limited the future development of the EU, limited the possibility of transferring sovereignty to the EU and further strengthened the position of the German parliament, which must (here is an example for Serbia), as an expression of the sovereignty of the German people, to approve the German government's moves towards further enlargement of the EU. That, I am deeply convinced of, and will happen in November of this year, when the German parliament discusses the issue of granting candidate status to our country. But let me go back to a few technical elements. As for the Memorandum of Understanding, I had the honour of signing it with Ollie Rena, who, as we well know, was Commissioner for Enlargement, and now is Commissioner for Economics and Finance, so no mistake has been made in any way. We, by entering this agreement, had the need to negotiate. It's not easy to get this arrangement. I can tell you that I have initiated a discussion on this arrangement with another Commissioner, Mr Almunia, who is now Vice President of the European Commission and is engaged in anti-monopolis policy. Then he was in the place that Mr. Ollie Rehn is taking today, and that was the summer of 2008, when we first started talking about this arrangement. Why? Because that's when we saw the financial crisis coming. Because we wanted to provide our country with the opportunity to finance in the cheapest possible way. What it says here unequivocally is that the European Union doesn't make any money on this arrangement. A clear view is in the contract that those conditions they provide for themselves... Because she's going out to the capital market, she's issuing bonds, and that money is being passed on to our country without any profit. To that extent, nothing is earned that they felt the need to mention some less costs if someone comes to visit us and see how this loan goes. That's why, unlike some other arrangements, because these costs are embedded in interest and some other expenses, they're not here. That's why everything else was taxed. Eight years, by interest which, when you include everything, at this point cannot possibly exceed 2.5% - 3%. We will agree, this is incomparably better than Serbia can achieve today on both domestic and international capital markets. When you talk about those other elements, they are, and I know you know it very well, but you mentioned it as a specificity... Of course, when you're looking for a loan, there's always a provision that says that whoever needs to provide you with the money can't deliver it to you unless he himself was able to provide it. It is a "force mayeur", which you have quoted, and it is a classic element in any contract, even in what we now have with the EU. For that reason, Mr. Mirovic, thank you for proving that Serbia should enter the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51850	Right on line, MP Dejan Mirovic. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51851	I have to admit, you're an extremely funny man. I'll have you denied immediately, as far as interest is concerned. Annex 2 of this Treaty states: "Unless the European Union is able to obtain these conditions, it will not be in any obligation to pay off the funds. In that case, the Republic of Serbia can ask the EU to propose new maximum interest rates. “ This is remarkable for the lender. So, the debtor himself will ask the lender for the maximum interest rate. It is indeed something that is only possible in the EU, and in these supranational systems. You mentioned Mr. Delor. It is true that he did not have any independence in relation to Germany and France, but that is only compared to those two countries, which are the fact engine and supranational formations. What about Greece, what about Spain and all those who now agree to Angela Merkel's terms for getting help, i.e. The formation of a new four hundred-and-a-half billion-euro fund? Just as you happened in 1992, when just because of the pressure of Germany and Mr Kol, and Mastricht and everything, Yugoslavia was torn apart, something similar will happen to Kosovo. There will be political conditions again. I don't represent political views here. If I were to represent political views, then we'd be talking about kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija. I am only talking about numbers, and whether it is economically good to join the EU or not. I argue that it is not and that our only alternative is what is realistic – a free trade agreement with the Russian Federation, a further continuation of co-operation, not a kind of dishonest relationship, which will culminate one day before the visit of Putin, when you, Mr Djelic, and an EU partner, will have a meeting on the abolition of double excise duties in Strasbourg, it is a meeting with regard to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51852	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51853	Mr Mirovicu, I would suggest we work together on EU affirmation. You've made further arguments. Here's another big argument you've made. So, you said that these evils, Germany and France, which seem to have some autonomy towards that alienated Brussels, and others don't... Well, you see, at this point in European construction, it's naturally affected by the crisis, it's found capacity for solidarity. You mentioned the number, you're right, four hundred billion euros, but that's something that will now be revised and if necessary (it's discussed and agreed), that amount will be increased. Today, without this protection mechanism, a Greek would go bankrupt. Everybody knows that. Without this protection mechanism, Ireland would go bankrupt. Now I'm going to give one piece of information that may be less famous in our public. I'm talking about the eurozone. Greece is part of the eurozone, as is France, as is Germany. Ireland is part of the Eurozone, but the UK is not. Great Britain is not, but what is very interesting is that at the moment when the EU has decided to provide almost 100 billion euros in support of Ireland not to go bankrupt, to protect its citizens, to protect the possibility of paying, pensions, that the state will work, not to be left alone at the mercy of international speculation, because it is also something that allows this solidarity, this which is a financial instrument for showing solidarity between EU countries, this UK has nevertheless decided to expose its own public finances, amounting to some 12 billion pounds, to support Ireland. Is this one German, the Great Britain doing it because they feel a special dose of love, a sympathy for other peoples? Absolutely not. There's one common interest behind all of this. This common interest is the possibility created by a large market of 500 million consumers, which allows those who produce in the EU to have a larger market. If you look at the UK, even if it wasn't in the Eurozone, it participates in the mechanism of saving one Ireland, because its banks are at risk because of Ireland and because Ireland is the second largest export market in the UK. In that sense, don't look at me for a Euroentusian. He's gone. But there is no reason to invent problems where they are not, and there is no reason why we do not give any significant achievements that the European Union has formed, not because the peoples love each other, not because they want to convey sovereignty, but because they have discovered that in the world, where there is one America, where there is one China, where there are some other forces, which will become, there are some domains where it is in the interest of countries that are establishing a geographical Europe, and more and more EU, to work together. Today we have macro-financial support for Serbia. Today, this macro-financial support, according to currently available figures, is something that at the level of these 20m euros will save up to 60m euros to our citizens' interest costs, which we will not pay. No one can say that's not in the interest of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51854	Please don't throw it away. National MP Dejan Mirovic, as an authorised representative, has the right to replication. Please do not bring a mess to the session by breaking the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Dejan Mirovic, right on line. Two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51855	I see you've avoided talking about double excise duties, the Brussels directive. I won't remind you, but again I'm saying it's a kind of economic provocation and that you're unhappy, I won't say it consciously, but unfortunately you chose the day before the Russian prime minister visited. So we are driven by politics that the EU has no alternative. As for Greece, Ireland and other countries you mentioned, it's not about any philanthropy or any help, it's about loans from German and French banks given to those countries. They're down now, but they're still about four and a half percent. As for the euro, see what the governor of the Czech People's Bank says, see what Mr. Klaus says -- they don't think of joining the Eurozone. Why? Because the Eurozone is a political project. It's an artificial currency, because there's no budget behind it. There are no common European taxes, there are no common European excise duties, although you claim to exist. So it is one artificial project, which brings the most benefits to exporters from Western Europe, and the largest exporter in Europe, and the other in the world, is Germany. And it's not about any evil Germany, it's about the fact that it's about the excess of the product being directed towards Eastern Europe and destroying competition in countries like Romania, Serbia and so on. I don't want to mention the terrible scenes we saw in the Romanian Parliament, but it just shows what despair is there and what a real social situation is in those countries that have entered that supposed paradise called the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51856	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled and uniform search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the LDP Parliamentary Group, the Prosperity Group, Serbia's MP Group, the DSS Group of MPs, the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia. We move on to the course of the session when the word has been given by the MPs, according to the application for a word. First reported, MP Bojan Đuric. After him, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51857	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vice-President of the Government, I think that after this public period of anatomy of the European Union, it may be time to return to what are the fundamental themes of our debate today. A few laws are here before us. If we look at them, each of them is the Prime Minister, who sent them at different times, that is, in different months, the name of the second minister... Most of these ministers, or practically all of them aren't in their restaurants today, but good. Maybe today was a chance to show that new energy. You, Mr. Djelic, have, as always, brought some energy. I must note that in this last exchange of views, it may not have gone in the right direction, that it may not be the best way to convince radicals, but also Serbian citizens, however, see this, that Serbia's best interest to join the EU is that, after the Lisbon Agreement, there is an opportunity to get out of it. However, it is not the best way to promote the EU, regardless of how much of the things you have said are true, both on the interests of the EU, on money and on the interests of the single market, etc. Yet Europe rests on some of the values and you know it very well. They were not in the prime minister's exhibition yesterday when he spoke about the EU, there was very little here today and in what you were saying about the EU. However, it will not be possible for the largest European countries or EU institutions to intervene in cases of Greece, Portugal, Ireland exclusively for economic, political or commercial reasons. There is also some kind of solidarity, because without that pillar, the whole idea of the EU has nothing to rest on. It would be good for us to finally accept it, then perhaps we would not have problems with the Nobel Peace Prize boycott, with very often not leading an external policy based on EU foreign policy, especially towards third countries, etc. I think it's good to finally get back to these topics that are here today on the agenda. You, of course, crossed the first two points of the agenda relatively quickly. That, of course, is not the laws that you've worked on and which, I say, you're full of ardently to represent or defend here today in parliament, especially because there is still one unpleasant situation that we are less than two months after the adoption of the basic text of the law, and one and the other, and the Law on property tax and the Law on the tax on the holding, use and carrying goods, faced with the situation that we very seriously have to intervene in these laws, following serious public interventions. I don't blame you for reacting to such pressure from the public, especially when it comes to the tax on the use of freight vehicles carrying up to three and a half tons. Of course, there are all the reasons that this error that came to pass in late December and that there is no tax in the future, and for that law, the LDP Group will vote, quite unimportant whether, with a reminder that we talked about it in December, when the law was on the agenda, or without it. As for this second law, the Law on property taxes, of course, that it makes corrections to some wrong solutions, but I'm not sure that that argument given in the reasoning of the law and which you have partially repeated here is correct, or realistic, especially when you are talking about this practice that will come – that the units of local self-government, which, by law, have the opportunity to determine the tax rate at a significantly lower amount than the one that is maximumly given in both the basic text of the law and in this law that is before us today... That's what's gonna happen. You know very well, even though you are the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration, what problems most local self-government units in Serbia are facing. The story of this is always walking on a thin edge, where there's a danger of slipping into pulsism. However, it is 150 - 160 units of local self-government, most of which in the previous two years had a problem with seriously reducing transfers from the republican budget, where coalitions that are in power, such as or such, in many ways look like that, let me say, central or large party life. It is not realistic that these units of local self-government, or those holding control power, will think of them in such a visionary way as to define tax rates at a relatively low level to attract investments, etc. Everyone will watch how to survive this year, as the government does, among other things, and when it takes very serious loans. Thus, local self-government units will try to bind one of the few tax revenues they have as practically original income to themselves and charge it to the maximum possible amount. At one point you spoke of this principle of justice or justice, which, of course, is very important in taxation in general, in this tax especially, but I'm not sure it's going to come out as a result of this debate today, that it's going to be news. The news today or the moment the solutions begin to arrive will be that the tax settlements, i.e. the amount of tax obligations for the vast majority, practically for all households in Serbia in 2011, will be 60% higher than in last year. I'm not sure that citizens will have much understanding of the fact that the property tax, as it has been arranged for us so far, was really not a serious source of income. In some countries it is. I do not fully agree with what Mr Kasalovic said, that citizens will be happy that those who call themselves tycoons in Serbia will be able or obliged to pay 50, 100 or 200 times the tax liability than when it comes to them. People will, of course, look at themselves. Finally, this session generally runs in a rather strange way. There's a lot of agenda points, and we interrupted it because of the government's election. I would remind you that at this session we are considering amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction; there are several provisions that are important from the aspect of the provisions of the Property Tax Act. I refer you to the provisions of that law. Something we talked about with Minister Dulic, he didn't give a full answer. Namely, the Law on Planning and Construction provides for obligations, practical punishment, for those who have not entered the legalisation process, that in the next period they will pay a triple amount of compensation for the use of building land until, I say, the tax is incorporated into the Property Tax Act, through some changes and additions. If we've already changed this law, then we could have skipped here and legally and economically quite a suspicious ambition to practically impose this obligation through the Law on Planning and Construction through the property tax. In the end, I really have to get back to that problem. You did not answer Mr. Mirovic either, Mr. Jovanovic tried to get an answer to that question – what happens to March 22nd, the Excise Act, or the necessity to amend the law? You were the first in line to talk about it. We know how difficult it was for you to defend an unsustainable concept in front of the EU institutions, the European Commission, that is to say, meeting this disastrous obligation under that energy agreement with Russia. In the assembly, you have a draft law tabled by the Liberal-Democratic Party two or three days after the problem emerged in public, on January 15th or 16th, it is. He offers a completely normal solution, that the excise duty be returned to that amount before 1 January this year. If you go the other way, and it is clear to everyone that this will happen, even the positive effects of abolishing these double excise duties will be annulled, excises will be raised or evened at about 48 dinars per litre of motor gasoline, which will be 12 dinars more than currently in Macedonia, Bulgaria or Romania. Now only ten dinars are more excise than in those countries, which are most of the parameters similar to us, and 23, you'll have a problem. Yet you are a member of the government who is here, I think was in that second building on 5 September 2008, defending the same day and ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and ratification of the energy agreement with Russia. Those problems that we were talking about at the time or trying to point out to you today are coming at you for a checkout. It was the same day, today you have that difference from one day between March 22nd, when we have an obligation to the EU, and March 23rd, when the Russian prime minister comes, but you owe us the answer today, it is only eight or nine days until then, this session will not end, will the Serbian Parliament succeed in adopting the solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51858	It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51859	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I cannot disagree with Mr Djelic that this agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU does not guarantee Serbia any more favourable loans than it has been so far. Every time a question of credit is asked a second question, which is who will repay these loans. We are now giving certain guarantees to Elektroprivreds here; we have given them more than once, in each draft budget law or amendments to the budget law, there is one item on the bulky side of the budget where certain funds are intended to pay off loans based on the guarantees made, which means that as a state we have given a guarantee to certain public enterprises, to individual institutions that have not returned those loans; loans have been recovered from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. However, in no budget law or amendments to the budget law, I did not notice that there were inflows based on the guarantees reached, i.e. that the funds that went out of the budget in the name of the guarantee were returned from whoever took the loan. I ask the question, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister or whatever, will it continue with this practice and when it comes to these guarantees? I understand the municipalities that are in Kosovo and I understand the situation, they are mostly funded from the Republic of Serbia's budget – if they were to pay us back, we would have to forward more to them, and then they would return to us. But when it comes to public enterprises, where directors have a salary of half a million dinars, I see no reason why they would not repay the loans they took and paid them back in the end, the Republic of Serbia. Why not return these funds to the Republic of Serbia's budget? I think that practice has to stop. You spoke at one point and about our domestic development bank and that its establishment is in preparation, that it is done by people who are professional and from politics independent, etc. I'm asking a question, where are we going to finance this development bank of ours? Are we going to end all of our domestic banks that we have left and are not under the patronage of the Agency for the winding-up and bankruptcy of banks, to pool their capital and build a Serbian development bank? I accept that as a possibility, but don't make us build a Serbian development bank, and we're raising loans to fund it. Then we just have the director, the board of directors, we have the administration, we have the costs, they're going to increase the price of these loans we can get. Unfortunately, Serbia today is a hostage of the banking sector. You know this well because, apart from "drawing" certain laws off our aunt's couch, as you say, you come from the banking sector. I can't say that you haven't done anything about reforming the tax system of the Republic of Serbia, I would have wronged my soul, but you've invented taxes on everything and everything just to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and it's always forgotten who's actually filling the budget, whether it's full of property taxes or it's full of wages, profits, products? I think you're a little lost in that. Problems, i.e. slavery, which Serbia has due to banks begin from the time when then Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic invented state records of value. Until then, the budget was as balanced as it was. The only thing that was out of the source of the budget was the funds from privatising our businesses, leading to an increase in the number of unemployed. Then comes the story of the collapse of the Serbian economy, the Serbian tax system and the Serbian budget system. By introducing state records of value and the reference interest rate of 24% and the famous budget of 2007... It seems to me that even then, in that other government, you were some kind of minister, with the Democratic Party of Serbia, the government that fell apart in 2008. That was the budget where the surplus was shown because one, not to say a more difficult word, I'm going to stick around, one that imagined he invented hot water, showed that the revenues based on the sale of state records were greater than the return of the same securities from the value and showed that the budget was in the surplus, i.e.. he's got extra money. So he took more credit than he had to pay back in that fiscal year and shows he's positive, and more than positive. What are the consequences, except that huge funds are being allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget to pay the interest? The greatest consequence, which is the secondary consequence, which can be corrected in some period of time... But the primary consequence is that the economy and the population are competing with the state in terms of credit. Come on, and the population, they take as much as they can, and it's getting harder to pay back because of the exchange rate and the variable interest, but the economy, it calculates with the loans. If there is a disturbance in the course of the loan, instead of taking the loan and opening new jobs, increasing productivity, increasing and expanding the work cycle, it sets out its entire profits to pay the interest banks. You were also a banker at the time. We now have a situation where many of them have recalculated because they were first deceived by the NBS and secondly by the ministers who led this country. They started closing companies, and instead of having an increase in budgets based on real original incomes, without increasing tax rates and expanding taxation, we have increased and higher budgets from the Republic of Serbia to the PIO Fund, because pensioners have to receive pensions, and employees are getting less; we have increased and higher spending from the RS budget in the Health Protection Fund, because citizens have to be treated. He's, again, full of employees. This budget, apart from the credit, is filled with employees who achieve some business activity or receive a salary – whether or not the business entity is an intermediary between them, but the fact is that until the number of employees is increased, until productivity increases, we cannot repay these loans that we are taking today. Neither you, like this government, nor any of the following, if this condition remains, unchanged. As a top of all that, we have a global economic crisis in 2008 and a particular crisis in the euro zone in 2009, when it comes to Greece and later Ireland. Mr. Minister, why don't you just be fair and say that the citizens of Serbia were solid with Greece, too, when it comes to their crisis? Not by going on vacation to Greece, but because banks are from 2008 to 31. 12. In 2010, the unfavorables amounted to foreign exchanges from the country. With the government law and this change, someone jumped into their own stomach. We have stated that the Ministry of Finance, or the Prime Minister, is in charge of controlling foreign trade or external, as you say, foreign exchange. I ask the question – who does the service to the business? The National Bank of Serbia. No dinar, no euro, can come out of Serbia's payment system until the National Bank of Serbia gives it away. How do you think this government controls foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange operations through the National Bank of Serbia, which is an independent body? Based on what? That I was right that the banks were coming out of the euro state from our foreign reserve I'm going to give you an example: 10. 1. In 2010, the liquidity of the banking sector amounted to about 440,000,000,000 dinars. It was all included, at least according to the official NBS data. So, the reserves that are in the NBS, the bank reserves that are in the NBS, the balance on the bank's giro-accounts, how much paper they have on them, they're all summing up to 440,000,000,000. In October, this amounted to 210,000,000 dinars. During that time, 2,300,000 euros were sold from foreign reserves. Am I to say that this coincides with the reduced liquidity of the banking sector and that that money has gone without a sign of importing goods and services from outside the country? Why doesn't someone from this government finally say what our actual foreign trade deficit is? We are dealing with some figures that exports of goods between six and a half and seven billion euros, we are reading data that imports are moving between twelve and thirteen billion euros, but why does no one tell us what the evidence is based on the pensions of our citizens who have acquired this right abroad? That money's coming in here. Why don't someone tell us how big our foreign trade deficit is? I claim it is not 44% or 45%, as according to official data, it is now said to be significantly smaller. But the difficult situation in the country is justice by large imports and small exports. It's a recipe for the survival of this government, and for those before this, and for most governments as of October 5th, we say. You have this certain continuity. I asked one parliamentary question twice, and I never got an answer – which banks, in which amount, amounted to foreign exchanges from the country from September 2008 to November 2010? That information is unreachable even to us MPs. Then what are we talking about? Mr. Djelic, you participated, at the time you were Minister of Finance, whether you liked it or not, you participated in the collapse of the domestic banking sector, when four banks were closed to "Sartid" bowing to someone. You could have done it without closing the banking sector. Now it's a fact that we don't have a domestic banking sector, that we don't have domestic funds, from which even the budget can be financed, from which the economy can be financed. We have a monopoly of a small number of banks that make all of us here hats. Not to mention that when the world's economic crisis ends, our National Bank lowers the reference interest rate from 16% to 8%, and at the same time the government takes credit from the IMF, and based on that loan, it emits dinars to budget users, so you have that terrible leap at the end of 2009. Who profited from that? Certainly not profiting from the economy, certainly not profiting from the citizens. They don't even profit from the state, they only profit from banks. From whom was that famous loan of $400,000, or 296,000,000, from which bank? The ‘Sosite General’ of the Bank. Who is one of the main people in Serbia for the Sosite General Bank? Well, your former colleague minister in the government, Mr. Pitic. Then what are you doing here? Let's make sure some new bank, which isn't here on the market, shows up to bring new capital and money. No, we're taking loans just to meet the needs of a huge state administration, for the projects you've started, which have been missed. Not to mention that we're taking loans to make some deal with the "Fiita" that can't begin to be realized. We take loans to give 10,000 euros per employee, but not to all companies, but exclusively to foreign companies! There are 250 people here. Of those 250 people, I'm sure, at least 220 know how to open a company and build a factory if you give them 10,000 euros per employee. Then what's the point? Where does that lead us? So, we take credits, we collect credits for an economy that struggles to survive on the market to make certain projects. We're destroying what little is left of our own domestic worth. Soon I expect, Mr. Djelic, one rebalance. It's gotta be him. It has to, because this tax on use, holding and carrying goods reduces revenue. We also expect because of the Government Act and the Ministry Act. Now I'm going to ask one normal question, and that's: Mr. Minister, we had 120,000 000,000 deficits last year and a 1.5% GDP growth. At the time, Minister Dragutinovic Diana said the growth was even 2%. Now we have a budget deficit of 140,000,000. It's about 12-13% higher, and we don't have a real increase in GDP so we can track that deficit. That's why I doubt all these loans we're taking and all these guarantees we're giving someone will be able to repay unless something urgent changes in the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51860	Since the time of the parliamentary group, 17 minutes and fifty seconds have been used. The word has been given by MP Kenan Hajdarevic, followed by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51861	The Honorable President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the day after the government's reconstruction, the least we could expect, as MPs, is that in this debate on tax laws and laws which guarantee loans to some public enterprises we hear something about the fiscal policy of the Government. I think we really need to know whether this fiscal policy is changing or remains the same, or whether Minister Dragutinovic is collateral damage to personal conflicts within this government, or the ruling coalition. The law amending the Law on Tax on Use, Holding and Wearing goods for us from the Liberal-Democratic Party is acceptable. We really have no problem saying this, as we did not have a problem saying that we support and vote in favour of those proposals of the ruling coalition, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which are in the interests of citizens, i.e. those government proposals that enabled us to move faster towards European integration. These are, among other things, laws that gave us a visa-free regime, a law that allowed the extension of passports, anti-discrimination laws, a law that allowed the abolition of mandatory military deadlines, SAAs, etc. This is the fundamental difference between the LDP and other opposition parties, which together with you voted and supported those legislative proposals that always went to harm Serbian citizens – I will also remind you of an oil-gas agreement with Russia, i.e. the sale of NIS -- such as resolutions on Kosovo that have established the wrong policy towards Kosovo, resolutions that have, as well as, established military neutrality, etc. These two tax laws are due to the stupidity of the ruling coalition in December. We have to be honest here and tell the citizens who are watching us. This law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act explains that the law will have a positive impact on local self-government units by enabling higher incomes based on property tax. I think this is a strange explanation if there is one fact in mind – that this law affects about 5% of the budget of local self-government. Here we also need to hear an answer about the transfer funds for local self-government, whether the transfer funds will be allocated to local self-government in the amount prescribed by law or, as so far, by the Minister of Finance, or by the Government, to reduce those transfer funds and thus create social institutions from local self-government? Also, if we are talking about guarantees for the loan of public enterprises, I should point out to the citizens of Serbia and you that in the last year, thanks to the duties done by this ruling coalition, we have charged each citizen with an additional 230 euros per capita. It is obvious that in this year we continue to provide guarantees for loans from public enterprises, which we absolutely do not know how they operate, what is their business policy in the future, when these public enterprises will be restructured. Most importantly, citizens of the Republic of Serbia are also paying the party way of managing public enterprises. Most public enterprises, over 99% of public enterprises are losers and, most importantly, monopolies. Serbian citizens through the payment of services and monopolies finance, as well as through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so we give them guarantees on loans or their direct debts as subsidies. We pay for the ineffectiveness of these public enterprises. It seems to me that there is no more important priority for the government of the Republic of Serbia than the abolition of these party monopolys to manage public enterprises. That's what the LDP will keep insisting on until it changes, because it's a cancer wound to our economy, as public enterprises affect about 50% of our country's economy. The Liberal Democratic Party will not give up its attempts to pass the government and parties that do not want to reach an agreement with the private sector, with the civil sector, the unions, in order to finally give answers to all the issues that we have had to give so far as the state so far, and that is too much to go into a clear reform, a reform that must and should provide European standards, not only in the political but also in the economic system. If you are saying that the European standard is the price of electricity or something else, we must clearly say that the European standard also represents the salary that citizens receive. I think we're forgetting that. In this way, we compromise the idea of the EU, because the idea of the EU is not one bureaucratized issue, but it represents a better standard for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51862	Five minutes and forty-five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. You have one more minute at your disposal. National MP Milos Radulovic has a word, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51863	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Yesterday, the Prime Minister here, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, promised that the new, reconstructed government would work much faster and more efficiently and would enable citizens to live a better life immediately. However, from your behaviour and his lack of it here, he is also the Minister of Finance, the citizens and we MPs cannot conclude that. The session was scheduled to begin today at 10.00 hours, however, the speed at which you started is such that we began the session at 1400 hours and the session was attended by the Deputy Prime Minister, who, meanwhile, was disembarked because he was taken from the Science Resor. Mr. Djelic, I would like to remind you only of some of your statements that you have given in time, which are statements that, with the beginning of the economic crisis, Serbia has a developmental chance and that investors will rush into Serbia, ready to invest, because here the government, in whose composition you are, has created the best business environment. Also, I would remind you of the debate we had here, on a bile discussion about loans for scientific research institutions, when I told you that you obviously think that Serbia is Guadalajara, that everything is booming here, that honey and milk flow. You said a few days ago that Serbia is the most invested country in science. It may be the highest percentage, but thanks to the loans you took and debted to the citizens of Serbia. As this government does its best to show that from the beginning of the year, this is the second session, we take loans to cover the budget deficit. I will remind you, at the first and only extraordinary session in February of the month since the beginning of the year, you have entrusted the state with the "Sosite General", a commercial bank, to cover the budget deficit of 200m euros. Here, today, in this debate, we are discussing, among other things, the loan between the EU and the Republic of Serbia and the NBS of 200m euros to support the economic stabilisation of the borrower, or the Republic of Serbia, and the mitigation of its balance of payments and the budget deficit. Mr. Djelic, from the beginning of the year, or more precisely in the last five months, you've been broadcasting government bonds of 148,000 million dinars. Since the beginning of the year, you have been broadcasting state records of 60,000,000,000 indexed in dinars, or 300 million indexed in euro. With these loans, you've been in debt since the beginning of the year to the state for a billion and five hundred million euros. Because of Serbia's poor credit rating, you are becoming increasingly difficult to obtain credit, money, which is why you are increasingly reaching out to loans from commercial banks, and their price is significantly higher and costing the country and its citizens a lot more. In the absence of money, Mr. Djelic, this government emits government bonds with an extremely high interest rate of about 15%. Experts warn you that Serbia's credit rating is very low, i.e. BB minus, which is defined as follows: lower vulnerability in the short term, but high uncertainty in the case of unfavourable business, financial and economic conditions. BB minus is not considered an investment, but a speculative rating level. This means that due to high risk, serious investors do not buy bonds from Serbia, but are eventually bought by only speculators, who are willing to take high risks if the bond price is low and their profits are high. We have constantly warned you about the level of public debt, that the growth rate is much higher than the GDP growth rate, which can very quickly raise the issue of the debt crisis; that with this level of debt compared to GDP, Serbia has a modest credit rating and therefore has to pay a high interest in any new borrowing; that public debt is much greater than you showed it. That the allowed level of public debt defined by the law is close, of 45%, Albert Jager, head of the IMF mission, confirmed in an interview in a daily newspaper on February 24th, when he said the public debt at the end of 2010, was 44% of GDP, not 41.5%, according to the finance ministry. It's the same Albert Jaeger who claims, when it comes to the number of those who have lost their jobs since the start of this government's mandate, that the number of these people is 400,000, not 260,000. Since you, Mr. Djelic, are in power, Serbia's debt, all the loans you took during that time have increased by 4.5 billion euros. As a result, several times more money will go to repay the loans and interest taken, than is allocated to capital investments. The foreign debt of the state is close to 24 billion, or 80% of GDP, which is the limit, over that percentage of the country is considered highly in charge and with a very low rating. This means high credit risk, more expensive government borrowing, harder finding creditors, inability to pay off credit and all debts, and, ultimately, as many predict, bankruptcy, as the one that hit us in 1982. Then, besides the state, banks go bankrupt, as government lenders and, unfortunately, citizens too. Only interest from the Republic of Serbia's budget is due to be paid to 47,000 dinars this year, for the main 37,000,000,000 dinars, with some accompanying costs of around 85,000,000,000 dinars. The state and public enterprises do not at the same time settle obligations based on services performed and the amount exceeds four billion euros. A huge debt, indifference, over 400,000 people who have lost their jobs, many who fear that this does not happen to them, over a million poor, lowest salaries in Europe, and the highest inflation, the decline of citizens' standards, in 2010 alone, compared to 2009, out of 25% or one quarter, the rise in prices for the first two months of over 20%, these are the results of your government's work. In addition to price and unemployment, we have only growth, a huge growth in public spending, which I'm sure by the end of the year will be greater than the one foreseen by the budget. The revenues certainly won't be bigger. We have such a situation that I am sure that by the end of the year, the citizens of the Serbian state will live much worse, even in comparison to the terrible one, according to them, in 2010. Since the government's promise of a better standard of living, higher salaries, 200,000 new jobs, economic development, a free share of 1,000-euro stock, you have done nothing. Instead, 95 company owners question what they will do in 2011 – we will fire workers, because their business is falling radically, indifference is increasing. The economy is unable to hire, but will be forced to fire workers. Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic at the Kopalnik Business Forum, densed the geese bruskets, resented them for their disastrous statements. So full, presenting the government's objectives in 2011, he said that citizens expect an increase in living standards, halting unemployment growth, agricultural development, price stability, support for real sector development. It's the government. During that time, 30,000 people waited, as each day awaits, in front of the soup kitchens to share one meal and a half of bread. It's safe to have them, Mr. Djelic, at least ten more times. Prime Minister Cvetkovic said yesterday in an exhibition during the presentation of candidates and targets of the reconstructed government that he had the honour of leading a government whose most significant results are that the effects of the crisis against other countries are reduced to a minimum. The results and effects of this government's work are the minimum wage, i.e. the lowest salary in Europe. He promised that, as soon as possible, it would ease the difficulties of the most vulnerable citizens, that the government, so concluded and reconstructed, had knowledge, energy and responsibility to do the great work that lies ahead of it and achieves the objectives that are in the interests of the citizens... (President: National MP, with full understanding that the joint principled search implies a wide argument, the debate on the reconstruction of the government was yesterday, and today, however, on the agenda, please. ) Due to all these loans that we are discussing today and guarantees, and I will remind you that today we are discussing three guarantees, one loan, which essentially represents costs for Serbian citizens, Mr Djelic, of at least 0.75% per loan, the DSS cannot accept this argument, because it does not lead to anything good. For us, or for Serbian citizens, it is best to have new elections as soon as possible and to choose those people who will at least make life easier for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51864	Thirteen minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Dragan Stevanovic, has a word, followed by National MP Natasa Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djelic, you just, as my colleague Mirovic said, acted funny in a conversation with him. For the SRS, it would be much more useful, and for all of us, that as vice-president of the Serbian government, who we otherwise waited four hours for to come and begin the debate, at least in this house you behave a little more as a lobbyist of Belgrade in Brussels than as lobbyist Brussels in Belgrade. From the fact that you, as Mr Đuric said earlier, understand the EU's anatomy neither this nation nor this state have any use; at least they haven't had it in the last ten years, how current you are on the political scene, and I doubt they will have it while you are on the political scene, and I, as a Serbian radical, and my party will do everything we can to make it very short. It would be much more useful to stop spreading illusions about the European Union and European standards and to sit at the same time in a government that makes such a circus with tax laws that you have made from New Year's Eve to today. I wish, Mr. Djelic, that you, as vice-president of the government and the child of Brussels, would state a single European state that has become part of this European family by meeting standards, not based on political decisions, such as Bulgaria and some other states, in which one government is making a circus with taxes, as you have, I repeat, from the new year to now, so in three months, change laws that have never even been applied. First, you passed a law that the president wouldn't sign. You government people didn't have the credibility to convince your majority to vote for that law. It was the Value Added Tax Act. Not in the Assembly, it wasn't a mission, to convince them before the law enters the procedure that you suggested something rational and clever, that it was something that represents the interest of this state's fiscal policy or economy. You did not convince them, and you will convince us of Serbia's European path, as is honey and milk. Oh, come on! Now you will come to the Assembly, after all, to discuss the predictability of the tax system in Serbia. The predictability of your tax system, among other things, speaks about the level of investment in Serbia, Mr. Djelic. I don't know which country it's in, I repeat, the tax system is predictable if it changes every two or three months. The municipalities haven't even started harmonising the paper with your laws yet, you're already changing that property tax bill. You know what you were saying earlier – it will ensure that taxes are charged better with these changes and supplements, tax revenues from tax administrations will be increased based on this. As you understand, Mr. Djelic, and your government, the importance and meaning of the property tax tells us that after ten years of your authority still in Serbia there are millions of illegally built objects. As far as you understand the property tax, Mr Djelic is also telling the fact that income from the property tax is involved in the overall revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. And to bring it down to the local level, you know what it looks like – in the center of one city a man builds a house, according to the law, pays a fee for the construction land, lives in that house for three years and does not pay taxes on property. Do you think these changes can change that? Mr. Djelic, you have an incompetent tax administration at the local level, because you could use it from your pre-accession funds to use it in vain, obviously. The level of administrative capacity of local self-government is poor. There are rare and controversial local self-governments that have understood and raised this matter to the level necessary, and this is because of the fact that you as a government have not raised your awareness to society or the state, as this business should be treated. Then there's a change of tax laws on these movable goods, and you say, "The government is meeting, you're going to meet the businessmen." Why didn't you meet these businessmen before you passed the law, so if anything, they listened to them, but made you change this law by going out to protest and strike? Now you're good, you're responsible, you understand the economy, you understand the needs. I wish you understood the anatomy, needs and problems of this nation and this country. We wouldn't live our lives, Mr. Djelic. It's nice to be dragged into these European facades, stories, dreams, but it's not life in Serbia, Mr. Djelic. What are you talking about, a favourable loan from the European Union? What kind of interest is 1%? Where does it say that interest is 1%? Maybe you made a lapus. It doesn't say anything, Mr. Djelic. What favourable payment deadline, eight years? In this assembly we have adopted agreements in which the payment deadline is fifteen-six years. We're criticizing you for the fact that we're paying your debts in 2031. Do you know which credit is good, Mr. Djelic? The one who's a smart spender. There's no good terms for credit, no grace periods, no payment deadline, good credit for the one who's a smart spender. Commend yourself, Mr. Djelic, what you finance – budget deficit. Why does it come into existence? Because of public spending, because of the political projects of individual parties from your government. What kind of favorable loans? What are you talking about? Yesterday we told Mr. Cvetkovic, there are no people here who grew up in trees. Take a look at that story of yours and promote European values. You've been telling us these fairy tales for ten years. What about the standards in this country? That's what we're interested in. You give guarantees to public enterprises. We do not dispute the need for public enterprises to be reconstructed, we hope that you will not reconstruct them as a government, but when you take the level of dirty money in public procurement we can only assume what will happen to these 70,000,000 and how much will go into black flows, black roads. No one here is crazy and everyone knows how to wash and what to do with money in Elektroprivreda. After all, we're listening to what's going on at the Colubary. We're all witnesses, we all have experience with them, setting up construction works and what's done. We do not dispute the need to spend money on construction works, to raise construction operations, but, here, and these from the European Union in the document have written that they will check your proclivity for fraud, it says openly. Find it in the document, it says, Mr. Djelic. I'm not telling you personally, of course, don't take it that way. I'm talking about your government's political profile and all your weaknesses. You guarantee Kosovo and Metohija. We are happy that money will be spent in Kosovo and Metohija. You found the possibility here in the Constitution and the right to do something like that, and that's good, and even the Public Procurement Act, but I'm asking you, Mr. Djelic, to tell us... A year and a half ago, your former colleague vice president boasted in this assembly and in public that the state had released a ballast of $400,000 against the Paris or London Club, and I don't know who, for debts in Kosovo and Metohija. Look at the mechanism, the economic mechanism of our sovereignty in that part of the territory broke out of the hands of our own state, in which he was Deputy Prime Minister, and we are now holding on to nine million euros, and it can serve as an argument tomorrow that we have every right to protect the Constitution, constitutional order and sovereignty of this state. Stop playing with these people and this country. Someone just said, I can't find it right now, I wrote down here, about responsibility and seriousness. I've been listening all day yesterday. That's not how you run the country. My colleagues have said X times, the state is a serious matter. You must find a measure, as well as a bunch of your colleagues, how you will present laws, how you will promote them and defend them, and always look back at the life around you in Serbia, to see where reality is and what is real and what is done to you. But you're running out of time. We hope, we believe in the supremacy of the Serbian people, its future and perspective, without you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51866	Ten minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP Natasa Vukkovic, followed by MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51867	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. It is true that three months ago we had the opportunity to talk about a more comprehensive change of this law, which was then explained by the idea of increasing the scope of tax payments based on property taxes throughout Serbia and, secondly, to reduce the tax rates that were extremely high in the previous law, which was no longer applicable in view of the numerous changes that occurred on our real estate market and in real life, but we also had the opportunity to talk about some of the basic conceptual sides of the tax system and the property tax system. Today we are talking about how to align the application of these progressive rates, given the need for local self-government to gain much more rights, i.e. powers in determining their maximum limits, on the one hand, and on one very important subject, which is how we will tax property rights on land. I don't think we've talked about this debate so far. When it comes to taxation of property rights on land, it is very important to remind ourselves that in our Constitution there is one principle of equal treatment of different forms of property. The law we adopted in December predicted that when taxing the right to use land in social property would not pay tax to the surface of ten acres. The proposal now provides for amendments and additions to the right of lease in public property tax not to be paid if the land area is up to 10 acres. I think it is very important to have in mind the need to equalise the treatment of private and public and social property and to implement some of the amendments that we have provided for such equalization of the treatment of property. I think this is more important because until now, taxation of the courtyard, the garden in Serbia has never been in practice. Given the announced increase in property tax, the truth is up to 60%, as foreseen in this year's law, taxation of courtyards, gardens, etc. It would be an additional burden on citizens and this should be prevented in every way, as I said, in order to implement the principle of equal treatment of different forms of property. This is still a chance to talk about the concept of the property tax law, because this law is actually applied based on several parameters. One is the ones that are set by law, the other are the parameters set by sublaws and the third, as we say today, the authority of local self-government to determine the maximum tax progressive rates. Citizens are quite concerned that they do not know what their tax burden will look like in 2011, and especially in 2012, given that by then there will be no such protection clause of 60%. I think it is very important that we talk about the application of these different parameters at a different level of determination can lead to some negative consequences, especially in the central city, Belgrade municipalities. I have to say, based on the experience I have from the MP's office and the municipality where I represent citizens and the city's central municipalities, that citizens are really a few concerned about announcements and some simulations so that these tax burdens might look like. It is very important that we stress that every tax, in order for it to be really chargeable, must be proportionate, that it must be durable. If that's not the case, we're actually going to have a big tax ejaculation and we're going to have to come up with other ways to cover these shortcomings. There are some simulations that, for example, for a 100-square apartment in the central Belgrade municipality, the tax is about 5,000 per month, and if, for example, is an extrazone, it will be 10,000-12000 per month, which in today's economic crisis of citizens is quite worrying. If such announcements and simulations are correct, I think it is very important that we take care of it, given that everyone is exposed to the consequences of the economic crisis, that many have lost their jobs, that their real wages are reduced and that such impositions would certainly not be painlessly experienced by citizens. What is very important is that we also take care of the principle of legal and property security. On the one hand, for years we have been talking about it and implementing measures to encourage investment in housing and construction. The property tax must not be destabilising. He must join the investment and investment policy in housing and construction. It would be quite wrong for someone to conclude that it's better to buy pictures or gold watches here instead of investing in real estate savings and profits. I think it would be a shame for the entire community and for the state, in the extreme line, because when someone invests in housing, then he hires the construction industry, pays the value added tax, etc. What's also important to bear in mind is that living in Serbia has always been a kind of social category, always had elements of the social category, and we can't just out of one such state introduce full market principles. What do I mean? We even had a principle of housing rights in socialism, there was a standard for, say, four-member families to be given an apartment for use, twenty square meters for a member of the household. This was considered a standard of good, desirable housing. Each country in the EU has something called a desirable standard of housing and defines a number of squares of living area for each household member. After that, in the 1990s, we approached the purchase of these social apartments, again at very good prices, taking care of social opportunities, making sure that in the most favourable way we allow citizens to acquire property over the apartments they lived in. As you can see, that social category has always been there. I think it's very important that we make sure that we don't create a wrong picture and that because of what they've acquired over the past decades, they're being punished in some way. We talked a lot when we passed the Law in December about the tax credit problem. Thanks to one amendment, Mrs. Comic, we managed to increase the tax credit, compared to the government's proposal, from 10,000 to 20,000 at the annual level for the immovableity in which the debtor lives. This has protected a very large part of the socially endangered world in Serbia, but it is very important that we bear in mind that in this way we have not fully produced the effects that a socially responsible housing policy on the other hand must implement. We have to take care of the principle of family protection, because if you've actually evened out the person who's betraying the apartment and the person who lives in the apartment, so you've evened out the person who lives alone in the apartment and who lives with two or three children, that way we may not have sent good messages. There are opportunities to amend these provisions and achieve some socially more responsible elements in the tax policy itself. We have already heard from several sides and from my colleagues that the property tax does not provide in most European countries, nor with us, any significant tax revenues. Although we are making a picture in public that the state can profit greatly on the receiving side, at the same time a wrong prejudice is being created that in some ways in the case of property tax everyone who has somehow acquired something in this country should be punished. It seems to me that there is a tendency in our media, and sometimes even among politicians, that something that is social responsibility, meaning, a socially responsible policy, we replace with a kind of demagogy, we want to say – well, now everyone who has something should be punished in some way. That wouldn't be good. That wouldn't be good because we don't want to build and build such a community. We want to build a community where people are entrepreneurship, where the entrepreneurial spirit of those who want and can practice, hire other people and thus make income for this community, and if they acquire something, they must not be punished for it. Of course, it doesn't occur to me that in any way I defend those who have acquired something because they have some state privileges, because they have violated certain regulations, but even in those cases, property tax is not the way to correct it. Then we have to apply criminal investigations, criminal proceedings, we need to see if they're responsible for tax evasion, whether they broke the law in any way. So, to be clear, it is certain that the wealthy should pay more, but it must also be a proportionate and durable tax. It's something where we have to find a good formula to get to. Finally, I want to say something else, and this is about some of the messages that have appeared in our public, in our media, that have been sent to pensioners, who have even sent some of our liberalally-oriented economists – move out of your apartments if you don't have the money to pay the property tax. First of all, this is about a serious misunderstanding of political correctness. It is age-based discrimination, it is something that is very serious in Europe today, and when we talk about the EU, we need to take care of it. Secondly, it's a pretty big social insensitivity. First of all, these are the people who have earned their pension; therefore, we give them nothing today which they have not earned, on the one hand. On the other hand, during their lives they have been saving, whether they intend to leave something to their offspring, whether they live with dignity in old age. Those aren't good messages. If some journalists or economists think we should promote the migration of entire city districts, it's simply unacceptable. It is said in some of our media, it was one title: “Pensaires tremble in salons. ” So, I advocate that in a very responsible way, our government and our local self-government are doing everything possible to ensure that these tax burdens are primarily even, fair and reasonable, proportionate to the incomes, because that is what shows the particular economic strength of each taxpayer. Of course, we are not exacerbating the standard of living of citizens, but we are not sending any wrong message that the work and acquisition of property in any way is being punished, that savings in Serbia are not being paid or that investment in Serbia is not a sure thing. That would be a very bad message. I believe that this government is socially responsible, I think it has shown it in part through this law, as well as through other projects it implements, but I also believe that this government wants to create conditions for normal privatisation, for increasing wealth, for investing, for investing in this community. I believe we'll find the best solution to make it happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51868	Twelve minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Vladimir Milentijevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51869	Madam President, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have before us a joint general and unique search on eight points that, and the Vice-President of the Government has agreed, do not have much in common, but it is not a novelty, it is an old practice that in one point of the agenda, taxes, and guarantees, and agreements, and loans, and memorandas, and contracts and I don't know what else. I would refer to this Law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank" a.d. under the responsibility of the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan and Zubin Potok, and in order to regulate the water supply problem and three municipalities in northern Kosovo and Metohija. This is exactly one technical law, which addresses the life issue of three listed municipalities, a water supply project covered by this law. It would be all right, we heard here today that everyone is happy that such a law was found before the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I think it's a unique law when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, of this kind, that has been passed in the National Assembly since 2000. That would be quite all right, there would be no objections on either side, but some tones related to the project were heard where it was trying to transfer it to the policy field and show that the project would inform the local authorities of the three municipalities. Why the local authorities of the three municipalities? Because the local authorities of the three municipalities do not belong to a coalition of government in the Republic of Serbia. Since these tones have been heard backwards for as long as the project is going to last, for the sake of the public, I will say everything about the transparency of the project. We are witnessing that the 2009 Budget Law provides for the possibility of borrowing the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvečan and Zubin Potok to build a regional water pipeline of these three municipalities. The amount of about nine million and I don't know exactly how determined it is, Mr. Prime Minister, based on the possible responsibility of three municipalities under the Public Debt Act. This law is nothing epochal, because in Article 3. The law is decidently said - loans are paid out by borrowers, and loans are three municipalities in northern Kosovo and Metohija. At that moment, there was an idea project by an Israeli firm that offered municipalities the construction of a water supply system under the "key in hand" system, subject to the provision of a state guarantee. However, the project proposal could not have been accepted by municipalities for the following reasons: firstly, because of the poor proposed technical solution that involved water pumping at high altitude angles, which requires large electricity consumption and pump maintenance; secondly, due to the high pre-calculation value of the total investment, which moved around 15m euros; thirdly, due to legal restrictions on the level of debt; fourthly, due to the necessary legal procedure in the process of borrowing municipalities in the case of this loan. After that, the municipalities, on the basis of a mutual agreement on joint construction of the regional water pipeline, made a joint contract and entered into the project, launched a procedure for public procurement of financial assets and credit services in accordance with the law. Three banks participated in the tender: "Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank", "Banka Inteza" and "AIK Bank". The most favourable offer was offered by the ‘Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank’. She offered the best conditions and signed a financing contract with her. Meanwhile, municipalities have launched a public procurement process for the construction of a regional water supply system. Five design houses participated in the tender: "Energoproject" Belgrade, the CIP Transport Institute, "Great Morava", "Vodotechnicals", and I don't know exactly what the fifth firm is. The best conditions were offered by the CIP Traffic Institute. After the completion of the project, a public call will be called for the performance of the works, with the legal obligation to publish the previous call. This procedure through which municipalities went through was carried out with constant consultation and agreement of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. Public Debt Administration. So much, gentlemen Members of Parliament, for the transparency of this project. It is good that the project will be realised, but a bitter question is raised – will the current relationship between the president of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the coalition in power allow us to use the water line in our country or will it remain in an independent state of Kosovo?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51870	Six minutes and fifty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Smiljana Milisavljevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51871	Article 104, the dignity of the National Assembly, because criticism and falsehood have been made. After the previous speaker's presentation, I can only ask one question: how is this, and we all know that the pipeline is very important for the existence of the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija, not realised during the rule of Vojislav Kostunica? So he never went into the budget once. I can only assume that either MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have not submitted amendments to the construction of the water line or have not been accepted by Vojislav Kostunica. We know that Kosovo and Metohija are at his heart. So my experience is different. In 2008, I submitted the amendment and the government immediately accepted it, and two years later, when I saw that the funds would not be used... So, the local authorities didn't have the will, maybe even the personnel, to use the budget funds and build a water line. I asked the finance minister to make some coordination and the government to find a solution. The solution has arrived. The law has arrived in an emergency procedure. So the government shows that it really solves the problems of Kosovo and Metohija citizens. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51872	There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, for a very simple reason – the MP has the right to state his position. I can't appreciate the fact that it's true or not, I can only react in the event of obvious insults. National MP Vladimir Milentijevic, right on line. Just sign in, please. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51873	I think I've made myself clear and I have no intention of being clear to Mrs. Smiljani. I want to be clear to the end with this project, as far as this National Assembly and the citizens watching this transmission is concerned. Since Mrs Smiljana always has mixed feelings when she talks about Kosovo and Metohija, the class speaks in the interest of the citizens of Kosovo, the hour regrets the burned Albanian checkpoints at the administrative crossings, I really cannot understand her. It is quite clear here, you, Miss Smiljana, exercise authority and you need to exercise authority, not stand up for it, or help with amendments or demands. You must exercise authority and serve as a service to Serbs living in Kosovo. You haven't done anything epochal, because this state has given a guarantee of a loan that will repay the municipalities. I did not criticise the state of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia. I even spoke positively about this project, which is a positive one. I simply didn't want it to remain uncleared and that the tones you've been making over the past year or two days are tied to that project when it's not true. Who bought apartments in London? Who needs to get rich on this project? You need to know that, and you need to exercise authority, find those culprits if they exist, and bring them to court. You have the D.A.'s office, you have the police, you finish that story once. Don't be a member of the orchestra that orchestrates this story and this campaign against the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51874	National MP Smiljana Milisavljevic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51875	Sir, we are the government in the Republic, but you are the government in the field, in the bar. I can't build a water line. So we've provided you with all the resources. If you don't have people, if you don't have personnel, get out of the way, leave it to us. I guarantee you that a water line will be built in record time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51876	National MP Vladimir Milentijevic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51877	I have no real intention of plowing with Mrs. Smiljana, but I must conclude that, Ms. Smiljana, you should once be aware that the funds are set aside by the Republic of Serbia, not Smiljana Milisavljevic. I told you that loud and clear. You must exercise authority and serve as a service to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You do, but you don't give it out of your pocket. All the negative things that you've been putting into this for the past two years, you have to prove it, or you've got to get out of this whole business to keep accusing someone when that's not the case. Shall we go back and get all the stenograms, where you accused - and that kind of crime, and this kind of crime... Come on, I'm telling you, you've got the police, you've got the prosecution, you've got the thieves, you've got them, you've got them, you've got them, you've got them, you've got them, you've got them, you've got them, you've got them, you've got them, you've got them, you've got them, you've got them, you've got them, you've got them, you've got them, Don't brag now that you've provided the funds. The state of Serbia has secured the bank's guarantee, where three municipalities in northern Kosovo and Metohija are in debt, which must return the loan as a whole. What's so controversial about that?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51878	Right on the line, the folk emissary Smiljana Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51879	I don't brag that I did it. I think I made myself clear. It was done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and it is undeniable. On that behalf, I thank the government on behalf of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija. As far as crime in Kosovo is concerned, we all know how much money has been embezzled, but it will be "Insider". We'll enjoy it. You might be less, and I might be a little more.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51880	The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic. After that, MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, have brought together eight points of the agenda in this debate. This is not done because these proposals for acts are just so mutually conditional and the solutions in them are interrelated, nor because the National Assembly lacks time, but that the MPs of the opposition would not have enough time to talk about these points of the agenda. When this session is over, the Republic of Serbia will be more in charge of 200m euros and will have guarantees of 70m euros. This largely reflects the government's work and therefore does not want Serbian citizens to listen individually to each point, so they are merged into one debate. In a desire to provide higher revenue in the budget through tax, and to present it as something that will not constitute a new imposition, and that significant, rather wandering, is required to implement it. We have an example of the Law on Tax on Holding, Use and Wearing goods, whose amendments and additions came into force on 1 January of this year. Here, after two and a half months, we're reviewing his changes again, in the sense that certain provisions return to the previous state. In that case, the amendments to the Law define that the tax on the use of motor vehicles is also paid by the owners of goods vehicles whose maximum mass is less than three and a half tonnes. If these changes only applied, as the Deputy Prime Minister said, to the owners of luxury jeeps, that would be fine. Why am I saying this? Because the owners of the jeeps figured it out, i.e. They found the possibility of simply removing the last three seats, darkening the rear windows, or somehow blocking them with manual curtains, performing additional tests, or atest and changing the type of vehicle from the passenger field to the freighter. That's how they avoid paying taxes to the state. The state, likely in its desire to reach them, brings amendments to the Law that it brings them to a category that will have to pay taxes, but it wrongly affects other owners of goods vehicles whose maximum mass is less than three and a half tonnes. Thus, during these two months, approximately the same amount of tax was had to be paid by both luxury jeep owners and owners who use their vehicles for economic activity, such as the van of vehicles to which bakers, for example, carry bread, or popular "tamics" to which agricultural producers drive their products to the market. When you realized how much injustice was done to this second category, to the owners of vans and trucks for the transport of agricultural products, here in front of the National Assembly of this bill to get everything back to the way it was. Those whose registration time has hit precisely in these two and a half months paid a high amount of tax, or did not register these vehicles at all because the tax amount literally exceeds the price of the vehicle because many vehicles are old and small. Now this law is presented to us as a discharge from these obligations, and it should be welcomed, but together with them, the obligation to pay taxes and owners of luxury jeeps, which have found a way to register them as freight vehicles. There's no justice, so there's no justice. You have not found a way to enforce taxation according to the economic power of the debtor. Many laws in Serbia are such that there are always certain gaps that one can exploit and that the state remains denied for certain revenues. To return to what I said at the beginning, that after this session, the Republic of Serbia will be more in charge of 200m euros and have an obligation under the guarantees issued by 79,000,000 euros. In addition, under the draft law on the confirmation of a contract that regulates liability for cost compensation between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a commitment was made to pay the International Bank's commission for about 2m euros. At the previous session of the National Assembly on the agenda was the loan agreement with the "Sosite General Bank", worth $400m or 292.6m, with the World Bank's guarantee. It was precisely the guarantee that tried to present itself as something thanks to which the Republic of Serbia received allegedly favourable credit. As much as it is a favourable loan, we talked at the previous session, about the terms of the loan, about a six-year period, about paying off the principal once after the six-year period, and I won't repeat those details. As for the guarantee of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we in the Serbian Radical Foreigner cannot agree with the fact that representatives of the Ministry of Finance are trying to convince us that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has done a good job to the Republic of Serbia. They're not doing it to make Serbia good, they're doing it to make money. This contract, which regulates the liability for costs, confirms that. In order for the bank to appear as a guarantee, Serbia has committed to pay two types of fees in advance, a commission to provide a guarantee of 0.50% and a commission to provide and service loans of 0.25%. In money, the first commission is 1.463,000 and the second 731,500, a total of 2,194,500 euros. So much Serbia has to pay the International Bank in advance, so that it shows up as a guarantee. Also, the contract ensures that Serbia will regularly serve its obligations. Otherwise, the bank has a plenary right over the public property of the Republic of Serbia. All this talk enough about what's so-called. The International Bank's charity, amounting to 2.19m euros, which it will charge in the name of the commission from Serbia, says even more. I'm just going to say that this loan from the "Societte General Bank" is being taken to finance the budget deficit and to refinance the debt. The SRS, during each new borrowing, cannot agree with such decisions by the authorities, as no project can be financed by its own resources, but in order to do anything, it must be in debt. Our biggest embarrassment is precisely in these cases, when loans are made to compensate for the lack of money in the budget. It is kind of different when it comes to a project, when something is being built, such as, say, the construction or repair of the waterway in the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvečan and Zubin Potok. Here, in fact, the Republic of Serbia only appears as a guarantee of their obligations. It's about time something was done to improve the quality of life of people living in these municipalities. Like I said, when money is taken for this kind of purpose, you can somehow find an excuse, but for funding the budget deficit I really don't see an excuse. In addition, the State Auditor's reports, which twice worked on the final accounts and both times identified a number of irregularities in spending money from the budget, also said. Another item of the agenda that has been merged into this joint debate is the one that has been mentioned several times, the EU, Republika Srpska and NBS loan agreement, worth 200m euros. This amount will be used to finance budget deficits and foreign reserves. There's been a lot of talk about him. I'm not going to say it again. I'll just point out that this is the first debate to be held in the National Assembly after the government's reconstruction and, behold, the first debate is precisely about new borrowings. That's how it started this year. The first debate in February at an extraordinary session was about borrowing. Here, again, the proposals for the law of the old Serbian government before the National Assembly, again the first discussion of borrowing. That says a lot about what this government is like in Serbia. Some colleagues who are representatives of the authorities do not like that the opposition is giving some criticism. I would like anyone who has read the State Auditor's report to convince me that there is no need to criticise so much unintentional spending of taxpayers' money, and on the other hand, continuous debt to finance budget deficits. Anyone who resents what we're talking about should think carefully. If there weren't so much unintentional spending on funds, would there be this much need for loans? In the end, I will not talk in detail about amendments to the Property Tax Act, which is one of today's items of the agenda, but I will talk about some life issues, more specifically how it is handled by citizens of Serbia, tax bonds. I was approached by a single mother who went to the tax administration counter. She asked for confidence in the size of the living space. She needs that confidence to exercise her right to a child's allowance. She received an answer that no belief can be issued unless the debtor has settled all his obligations in all his tax accounts. This rule came to life last year. A single mother in Serbia cannot exercise her right to a child's allowance because she has failed to meet obligations for the first quarter of 2011, and cannot even reconcile them because she will now remain without a child's allowance. The government, which for three years, and especially yesterday at the session, speaks of itself as being socially responsible for such examples in practice deny itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51882	Eleven minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic, followed by MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51883	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vice-President of the Government, I certainly support the fact that we're going into tax reform and I think we're on the right track, with the tax reform, especially in the area of property tax, not ending today. I think we should talk about that and see what concrete solutions we can find over the next year. It is good in this law that there are progressive rates that tell us that those who have more value should pay a higher tax, and those who have less value should pay a lower tax. I think that's fair. What is a new quality is, as the Deputy Prime Minister said in the law, that this law only determines the maximum tax rates, and that local self-government has the opportunity to set lower tax rates on its own. I don't think that's meaningless at all. We have a very clear decentralisation for the first time, where we allow local self-governments to determine their own tax rates that will correspond to what incomes are and how many incomes are received from citizens living in certain municipalities. Serbia is not evenly developed, and not all in all areas and municipalities can pay the same amount of tax. I think we should appeal, all of us, and MPs and citizens, to the local self-government to re-examine the levels of tax rates in their municipalities and cities within the next 60 days of this law's adoption. It is good that this tax makes it very clear that there will be no tax on the right to use on land up to ten acres, the right to lease on land up to ten acres. I think there was a failure that was in the previous law, we introduced it last time by amendment, and now we have again submitted an amendment to even the property tax on land. As our citizens know, we have allowed the Law on Planning and Construction to exist private property on land for the first time since World War II. Citizens will make a conversion, become landowners where their houses are located and we believe that up to ten acres of tax should not be paid; it will not be paid when we adopt an amendment that has already been submitted. Also, we've been having conversations about some sublaws. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to meet the representatives of the Ministry of Finance who are here to discuss the need to amend the Regulation, which is usually changed after the adoption of the Property Act, especially in that section relating to the coefficients in relation to the zones. In many cities in Serbia, there is an extrason. There are two coefficients in the extrazone. In the first zone, the coefficient is one. We think it's too big a difference, that on the one side of the street there's a double tax, and on the other side of the street twice as big, because that's how the zones border us. I think we should all pay attention to this together, when the regulation is changed after this law is passed, that the extrazone coefficient is smaller, because it's extremely unfair. We don't have twice the richer citizens on one side of the street than those who live across the street. We're going to have a serious debate about this whole thing. In the Serbian Parliament, we intend to organise a round table to which we will call both the finance minister and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the cities, or the Permanent Conferences of Cities and municipalities and MPs to discuss the very concept of tax credit and tax relief. It's not open with the law now, so we couldn't react in that part. I believe that these reliefs must absolutely be greater for those who live in apartments than those citizens who own the property and do not live in it. We have to make a difference between whether a four-member family lives in one apartment and how much they have to pay taxes, compared to no one living in an apartment and giving up that apartment. That's a big difference. I think we need to put the social component into this law and think about it by the end of the year, and eventually make some changes in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51884	Four minutes and forty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51885	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to answer a few questions and thank you for the quality of this discussion. As far as taxes are concerned, those MPs are right to say that we must find the right balance and make a rhythm to strengthen that part of our tax system that economists call direct taxes, i.e. those taxes paid directly or directly by a natural or legal person and which relate to the economic strength of that natural or legal person. Of course, when you go that way, then you come across quite a rough terrain. And in the debate that was three months ago, and even today, as far as the property tax is concerned, we saw that it's not easy to inherit a certain situation, a certain structure, social, economic, various zones, and then think that it's possible to move overnight into another system. It's simply not fair or sustainable. Because, in order to be accepted and paid, the tax must be understandable and tolerable, as it must have within it that element of recognition of the reality in which we live. Because of all this, what is proposed here, and that is the maximum rate, the flexibility of local self-government to determine what is valid for a specific zone, at the same time maximising not only the rates given but in the dynamics of one year, the maximization of tax increases to 60%, that is all that needs to ensure that this transition is acceptable, and therefore accepted. In that light, and I'm glad to hear on behalf of the government here encouragement, these changes and additions could have come sooner, it's true, but they're here today, and that's it. We also see that we have an element that provides, if the MPs adopt this law, that we do not have two moments in 2011, from January 1st to the moment of entry into force, and later, than that what is adopted today is actually the system, and the rate and amount that will be paid for this year. It is noted that there is a consensus that for those who have an activity that requires the use of vehicles that have less than three and a half tonnes and which use not for their own purposes but for business activity, equalise tax treatment with those larger vehicles. It is something that will make it easier to work in this difficult year for those who are engaged in the transport of agricultural products and other activities. It seems to me that it would be directed, if possible, to reach a consensus on these two tax laws, because it's only about technical objections and all in order to improve the functioning of our tax system. As far as financial arrangements are concerned, of course it would be best if Serbia could be where the Budget System Law, which changed this home in autumn last year, predicted to be in 2015, is that we already have a budget deficit of 1% of GDP. However, as with taxes, it is also important to have a balance in the domain of public finances. At any moment of this severe crisis, we must have a good balance between, on the one hand, the necessary activities under our circumstances, which public finances can provide, in order to, for example, encourage construction and, on the other hand, the risks that any major deficit poses to one country which, unfortunately, does not yet have a strong export sector, i.e. where the export sector is relatively dependent on imports, where any stronger deficits in public finances are poured into the imbalances of our foreign trade, and therefore the balances of current payments. In Serbian, that means we spend more than we earn. The only way to bridge this is to donate, credit or, ultimately, cut foreign reserves. Because of that, it seems to us that if we look at this approach... There was a rumor that there was no strategy. There is a strategy, in the sense that, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, a macro-plan has been prepared, which is quite precise, which even has very clear assumptions about the type of debt, the type of investment, the type, though smaller, donations, we hope is something greater in the EU, which can provide the development that is foreseen in the plan by 2020. So I think that the gap between criticism should be reduced to five or ten years and, on the other hand, the desire that there is a clear assumption of what growth we will have and how we will finance it. The plan the Prime Minister was talking about yesterday spoke clear assumptions and at the price we think we'll pay for our duties. Today, if we look at the quality of these resources for the deficit that Serbia has this year, which represents 4.1%, that is what you, respected MPs, voted in December of the month, is one of the lowest budget deficits today in Europe and that is something we must finance and here is the source of funding. I just want to say that there is very little to talk about; one of the conditions of this financial arrangement with the European Union, which is extremely favourable... These are the best conditions, both the European Union and the World Bank, and its guarantee through the rating of "triple A" (AAA), the best possible in the world. These are the things that allow us to have low costs of financing the remaining reasonable budget deficit we have. On the other hand, we see that these infrastructure projects, water supply in Kosovo, are able to strengthen renewable energy sources, i.e. The hydropotentials of our country on the Drina, these are all things that unequivocally improve the everyday life of our citizens and bring us closer to something better and sustainable in the domain of our energy, where we will all agree, far from the optimus and in the mix of the sources of our energy and in our energy efficiency. This is one step forward. Since there have been many other aspects of our finances and international sources, I would like to say something. As for the Chinese loan, it was one of the questions of MP Cedomir Jovanovic, something that was clearly indicated at the time when the law concerning the loan was ratified in this home. Let me remind you, the so-called Chinese loan for building a bridge in Borca has a period of 18 years, 15 years with three years to start. It is expressed in dollars and represents $217.00,000, interest is 3% a year. It's something that's not commercial at the same time, which has a donation element, at least in the financial sense. The whole art is that such favourable financial conditions are also followed by very favourable technical conditions in the construction of the bridge itself and in the dynamics of what is happening here. According to what is happening here, according to the last development of the situation and what we hear from our European partners, they think that this project is going in the right direction and is in the interest of our country. If we consider other elements, and it was a question of what the "Sosite General" will provide us, one thing has gone unnoticed in this discussion; it is that for the first time on this scale we received $400,000 as a country, there is no equivalent in Serbian, and it is a "bulet" payment, i.e. One-time payment, i.e. The possibility that over six years, the length of the payment of this loan, we pay only interest and that the total capital of $400,000 is paid at the very end of the loan. Why is it important to point out here? Because this is the first time that one trustee gives our country such a large loan, with the confidence that the conditions of payment, our country's financial bonus in six years will be such that, with the other obligations we will have, Serbia will be able to repay $400m. It's a quality higher. That's why I want to underline tonight for our citizens, not to say that loans are good in themselves, but the quality of this, by the modest scope of what we can afford as a deficit, is for more than two shades better than we could get a few years ago. There was a story about the ratings. Can we be satisfied with the BB minus our country rating? I'm open to it -- no. How is that measured? By looking at those countries that have the same credit rating as Serbia. When we look at this group of countries that have the same rating as us, we realize that we have a gross domestic product per capita that is 40% higher than the average of those countries. This shows that, unfortunately, there is still a perception of the risk in our country that is greater than in those countries that get the same credit rating as we do. On the other hand, no one can be unhappy that our country in the previous year is from the perspective of that rating that was negative to a stable perspective, and even less because of the fact that in February last year, the OECD, i.e. an economic co-operation organization based in Paris that holds a model of little public knowledge, which serves as a credit rating base for all business insurance agencies with our country... Some of them are known as Hermes, Kofas, German or French. They provide business with our land for their companies and their banks. Therefore, the fact that the OECD has raised Serbia's rating, as the only country in the world that has been raised in that year, is something that is positive and shows that in this domain of rating, where I underline, we cannot be completely satisfied, we are still going in the right direction. There were stories about how that bank or this bank got that job. It's very simple, when an agreement was made with the World Bank, they agreed on an ad in our "Official Messenger", on the one hand, in the Financial Times, the world's most read daily list in business circles, on the other. A number of banks reported, "The Societte General" gave the best conditions, and not this local one, because this local one doesn't have enough money to wash one of these out on its own. There were also "Siti Bank Europe", "Dajce Bank", "Credit Swiss", "JP Morgan", "Banka Intesa" and "Rajffeisen". Simply, the commission compared it, it's not hard to do, because there are criteria quite simple, it's about money, what's cheapest and that offer was the cheapest and it's accepted. Let me just say something about this guarantee to build a water supply system on Cosmet. Who can be against it? I guess that's more than any other declaration, a statement, the way we can deal, regardless of ethnicity, the lives of people in Kosovo. I am sure that by working this concretely, not with local self-governments that are the same political colorations as the Republic government, we respond to what the real needs of citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija are. That's why there's no need for any politicization. Regardless of who these people vote for and what their ideas are, they need drinking water, they need a normal life. In this way, after many years, the Republic of Serbia is very specific, with ninem euros intervened and improved their lives. In that sense, this is one serious thing. Finally, I would also refer to a number of questions raised during this discussion, which were not directly related to the laws that are before you today. You asked the public sector question. Yes, the question of restructuring the public sector is a question that remains with us. It is not true that nothing has been done in Serbia for the past ten years. Here and there, it is better to work quietly with a medium-term plan, without social earthquakes, than to have some thunderous plans that then break down on social resistance and never be realized. It is important to know that both the "Serbian Railways" and the EPS... And the EPS, by the way, has returned the last ten years to the last dollar, the euro and dinar of the debts it has had, however, is often criticised. This is not the case with "The Railways of Serbia" and "The Ways of Serbia". What's true is that these public enterprises have done a certain part of their own restructuring. Far from the end. As a result, the Prime Minister mentioned during the exposé that the abolition of the monopoly and restructuring of the public sector is something where perhaps more engaged and energetic should go in the weeks to come. As Vice-President for European Integration, I would like to say that in the coming days, because on Tuesday we have a Committee for the Implementation of the Transitional Trade Agreement with the European Commission, until then, of course, we will make certain decisions. There has been a reconstruction, it is now a reality, and with the Prime Minister we will make the right decision in the days to come. Of course, the most suitable is where there is a common interest of all interested in this issue, that it is realised, if possible, to make such a compromise. But one thing is certain, I guarantee you – the government of the Republic of Serbia will not allow anything to endanger our European pathway, we will not have at any cost any dispute with the EU that could lead to a negative development of the situation for our country before the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Replica, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51887	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djelic, I'm afraid at some points we didn't understand each other. First, to specify our position on EPS. We have no objection that would stem from the condition in which the EPS is located from the point of view of analysis, let's say, the time it used to be in. We have a problem with the government's relationship to the EPS. We see that as a problem. It is true that the EPS has paid back the debts. Imagine if the EPS were released from those social roles, which is unfairly played in a society where the burden of responsibility is not distributed evenly, but is passed on to those who cannot avoid that responsibility, whether it is "Srbigas", whether it is an EPS, it is in itself not so important in this debate. We said that this was an opportunity to remind once again of a whole series of mistakes and failures that seem without any reason. We asked you a question about excise policy. Here, our third month law here is in the congregation drawers. There's no reason not to adopt. The Chinese Bridge, it's true, it's a good loan, but where are the problems? We don't respect our obligations. In April we signed the contract, we didn't do anything in the meantime. We made a commitment to the Chinese partners that we wouldn't charge taxes. We charge them taxes and taxes. That we will liberalise the policy that is the prerequisite for their labour force's arrival. We didn't liberalize. Now it's a problem for the MUP, which has nothing to do with building a bridge. There's a whole series of such anomalies. The World Bank, the level of appropriations, the level of funds realised, the reason for borrowing, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, abandoning the potential and the resources at our disposal. It's nice that the prime minister comes to parliament and says he has a strategy, he just can't announce it to us, so we're sitting here today on the computer reading statements about how the strategy is still in the domain of the secret, but it's going to be announced tomorrow. It's not serious enough for the situation we're in. It's a good thing these laws change. We asked for it three months ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51888	Time. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since the general public is familiar with the two addresses of the RTS Information Programme College to the National Assembly, I will read you both the same address. It first arrived last night, at a time when our ministers took an oath. I really didn't think it was right for me to read at that point. The other came today. In the meantime, I've sent a college of RTS's information program to a stenogram, which is probably where two addresses are addressed to us. "Dear Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, please read our correction tonight on a direct TV broadcast. The correction refers to a brutal untruth brought by LDP MP Ivan Andric in the assembly debate. In a direct TV broadcast, MP Andric said that February's rally in the media received great attention, and Saturday's walk in connection with the anniversary of Zoran Djindjic's murder organised by the LDP for a second at RTS. In all the information shows, we regularly reported on the memory walk organised by the LDP, including the contribution in the second Dnevnik. We note that in front of journalists at the National Assembly of Serbia, MP Andric listed one other television, that she did not give even a mass walk, but in a direct transmission, he unwarrantedly defamed Serbia's Public Media Service. We are sending the correction because of multiple repeated attacks by MP Andric on RTS and because of the obligation of MPs to bear responsibility for the accuracy of their own statements in the highest legislature." A few minutes ago, a new address arrives, saying: "The review of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's stenograms since 14 March 2011 found by the College of the RTS Information Programme that news agencies misread and incorrectly conveyed the statement by Ivan Andric, the LDP MP, that the LDP's memorial march and Serbian citizens in the memory of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic had not been broadcast on television for one second. The agencies misidentified RTS as the target of the MP's criticism, as we regularly reported on the memorial march in all the information shows. Viewing our obligation to correct any inaccuracies in our programme, regardless of what has arisen in this case with the responsibility of others, the College of the RTS Information Programme withdraws the request to read yesterday's correction sent to the address of the President of the Assembly. We apologize to Andric, and we will send this apology amendment to the address of all the media who published our text yesterday, including the RTS information programme. College of RTS Information Programmes. “ I had a need, regardless of what was not in the agenda, to inform you of both texts, because the interpretation of what is heard in the House of the National Assembly is sometimes such that it causes controversial experiences of Serbian citizens. I give my word to Cedomir Jovanovic. I'm asking that in the time that's limited, please address this.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51889	Madam President, how long is this?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51890	You advertised the Rules of Procedure? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. Well, just then, Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51891	Of course, I think it's obvious what nonsense it is. Where are the problems, Madam President? In relation to this House. I think most of us here have given our maximum to make this the institution that our society needs. After yesterday's attack, there is no ambition to point out an irregularity in the work of members of our MP Ivan Andric's group, but a desire to silence this parliament. People who sent you a letter yesterday insist on the concept of responsibility, and today their more than irresponsible behavior justifies the news reports of other agencies. That house directly conveys our daily sessions. This isn't the first time you've done anything like that. I think we need to define a strategy that will in a very clear way establish the principles of both mutual rights and mutual obligations. There are other places. It is not the Assembly's place to clear up such a big issue as the political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder. We are not satisfied with the way the Public Service has acted and treated us, not us, but thousands of people who have nothing to do with the Liberal-Democratic Party or us personally, but not to edit RTS. Ivan Andric is a member of the Programme Council. This parliament has authorized him to do so. He has the right to express his professional criticism as long as he performs that function. Those who expect us to accept the packs of nonexistent organs... That college doesn't exist. There is a business college, there is a programme college, but this editorial college is a fiction behind which a man who deserves the least in Serbia, who has European ambitions, Mr. Djelic, is the director of RTS. I don't want to mention at all everything he said in his professional career, but I want to say once again that Tianic will never silence us, that this is just another one in a series of evidence that gives us the right when we say that this person is unworthy of such an important job, which he does primarily thanks, Mrs Kolundzija, to the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51892	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51893	I answered before you started your statements with a replica of what Mr. Djelic said. Mr. Djelic, you are likely to have lost weight, as has been the media public service of European Serbia, European Serbia, for ten years. The other day, it was an assassination, my personal observation, a personal story, so I hear he said a man -- there'll be someone who'll lead us into the EU after ten years. Here he is, taking us back to the EU. Every Indian's dream is to become chief. It's all proven. The contractors are in action. Mr. Djelic, you've been screaming in this assembly here since December that changing the property tax law is the most important thing. And with the same intensity of the rip today, in mid-March. So, when are you guys real? I know, you will swear every day here in European values, in European... Everything according to standards. As long as the transmission is valid. When the cameras are turned off, the session is over, it is not valid, we go with the next story and again swearing: Europe, Europe, Europe. No one will stop the European path. And you haven't said a single moment – we will stop the decline of the standard of living of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's not in those eight points of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Please stop that media service. You are the media service of European Serbia. (President: Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51894	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51895	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on property taxes, an analysis of the characteristics of the existing property tax system in Serbia, we come to the conclusion that it is indeed such a model of taxation that is extremely unfair, I would say economically inefficient and, of course, not sufficiently issued. What is worst, not even the goal of the Ministry of Finance, while Ms. Diana Dragutinovic was the primary in the announced reform (if at all it can be called reform) of the tax system, which is the increased tax burden of more wealthy citizens, will not be achieved at all, or only one small part will be achieved, and the real effects of the amended tax on property will certainly be the opposite. There were even some jargon hints of that law, like Robin Hood, but it's clear now that it's full of disadvantages. One example of the whole system is that taxation is focused exclusively on natural persons, but not on legal persons. This means practically, we in the SRS Group have already pointed out, that more property will be paid by citizens only, but not by businesses. Then it could happen that those who are big renters, have a lot of apartments, translate that property into a company and avoid adequate taxation. So there's none of that, obviously just marketing, ministry announcements that there will be greater taxation of the rich. To be clear, taxation of property is certainly the oldest tax form, the most visible tax form, it is unpopular; proportional and low tax rates are applied; it shows one significant stability of the tax elements. The tax facility, therefore the land, the building building is permanent, and the bonds, the owners of the property are entered in the relevant documents. Taxation solutions do not often change, and revenues are local units of government. However, with such changes, so what we had three months ago and today, which concern both the heights of the proportional rate, the reduction of the rate, the depreciation, the elimination of the existing tax credit system, it is obvious that all these property tax corrections will most affect the remaining, the ever smaller, medium layer. So the redistribution of the tax burden that seems to be such changes and additions, in our opinion, is difficult to justify. In fact, the introduction of a proportional rate causes a lot of adverse social and economic reactions, as all tax burdens are increasing, especially to those who are the weakest, and these are pensioners and unemployed, who are increasing from day to day. Tax administration, which recently emerged from the transformation caused by the formation of i.e. By singleing out municipal tax services, even this existing solution did not end up being absorbed. Hence, and these defeating data that in Belgrade is covered by this tax is about 58%. The situation inside is even more devastating. The rate of charge doesn't even exceed that 50%. It is not acceptable to reform the taxation of only natural persons without a tax solution and other categories of taxpayers of this tax, I repeat once again, first of all, legal persons and ultimately reforming the entire property tax. It's not over here either. I will just remind myself of something that the government, faced with great default, has decided – that all bonds that have debts forgive interest if the principal, and unindexed, settles until the end of the calendar year. I guess that's how the rule of law goes down or builds credibility, because that's how it turns out that only those naive pay taxes are punished by those who regularly settle their obligations to the state! After all, what's scandalous for Serbia is that some anti-population measures are in place in this law, because the same tax is paid by both two-member and four-member families. There's a legitimate question, what can be done? The Serbian Radical Party believes that, among other things, it could increase the amount of non-taxable assets; then reduce annual and total depreciation. I also find it very important that the existing tax credit system should be reduced. Finally, what awaits us next year is a census of population and housing. I guess then the tax administration will finally have a chance to form a register of total immovableity. Since this tax form is balancedly modest, the tax authorities do not show any particular interest in fully administering it, i.e. in establishing and charging it. So, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when it comes to taxes it's less important to know math, it's more important to know the nature of taxes, because, as small as it is, whoever pays it is always big. The general assessment of the existing solutions applied in the case of property tax in Serbia is not favourable. Why? Because the tax base is depressed, the progressive rate is unnecessarily complicated and all this leads to low fiscal income. So the proposed property tax should be neutral. The tax rate should be unique and self-determined by local self-government. The fee for the use of construction land should be fully integrated into the property tax, and the overall income from the property tax should be the original and public income of local self-government. This extremely poor state of public finances in the Republic of Serbia has caused or updated a number of tax policy issues. One of these issues could certainly be: why is income from property tax in Serbia, according to GDP participation, half as much as in OECD countries? Thus, the current problem of local self-government financing also reminded us that the property tax has not been seriously reformed for many years. In this legal framework that regulates this tax, there are already gaps and inconsistencies at first sight. This is primarily evident in the fact that the amount of liabilities on the basis of the property tax is relatively small and is particularly favourable to the owners of the most valuable assets. The most important thing remains, which is one of the more quality designs and administrations of property tax, and this is a key issue regarding how to determine the true market value of the unit of property. There are cases in practice that two similar buildings, in the same part of the city, reach significantly different prices on the market. It is necessary to move towards estimates of the right market values. Before going to an assessment of the value that is well below the market, that is to say allowing the increase in income to be achieved at higher tax rates. So, in front of you who, let's say, creators, fiscal policy makers in Serbia are certainly a huge deal. Of course, there are also some things that can be solved by amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act. Therefore, one of these easier decisions to make is certainly the reform of the property tax, which is necessary, must not be postponed. The amount of the underlying should be closely linked to the market value of the real estate, tax credits should be reduced, etc. Of course, what is harder and more complex, is the assessment that the level of tax liability is socially acceptable in view, first of all, of those citizens who live in valuable properties. Of course, a special, basic preparation will require a decision when and how to include revenue from the fee for the use of building land in property tax, so that practically no category of taxpayers is damaged, and that the average revenues of local self-government from real estate tax in the real amount of the increase, which should ultimately be one of the key objectives of the reform. Therefore, the rights and essential reform of the property tax should ultimately aim to help all these cities and municipalities overcome the problems they face, and it is likely that this year will not differ much in this regard. So, to conclude, this proposal to amend and supplement the Property Tax Act does not represent the beginning of the reform, only the continuation of one wandering in the fog and we in the SRS are something that we will certainly not be able to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51896	Thank you. National MP Mikhailo Puric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51897	Dear Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, a respected colleague and fellow Members, we have a joint principle and uniform search on a series of draft laws. I think about certain things, when it comes to the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee to the German financial institution KfW under the responsibility of the EPS Public Enterprise, and this is about the HE Rehabilitation Project "Zvornik", it is not enough, although it is a very important project. The project is very important for Serbia and the Elektroprivreda of Serbia and, above all, for the area from which I come and most of all for Mali Zvornik. I would like to point out that the reasons for the adoption of the law on the granting of the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia KfW, i.e. to the German Development Bank, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia"... I stress, according to the Public Enterprise, because there were indications here that the budget was due, not the Public Enterprise. As the Deputy Prime Minister said, "Electro-priority of Serbia" is one of the few public enterprises that really settle their obligations, and that is one very important thing that the public of our country needs to know. This is about the HE Rehabilitation Project “Zvornik”. The loan agreement was concluded on 29 October 2010 in Belgrade. The loan agreement agreed on a 70m-euro loan, of which fourteenm euros is aid, and fifty-sixm euros is a loan. Under the provisions of this Agreement, the loan funds will be used to implement the HE Rehabilitation Project "Zvornik". That loan agreement for the financing of the HE Rehabilitation Project "Zvornik" sets out, among other things, the use of loan, payment, interest rates and commissions. It is an extremely important investment for the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the EPS and Mali Zvornik municipality, which has about 14,000 inhabitants. For them, this investment is of paramount importance, as is the work of the hydropower plant. By the way, I would like to say that Zvornik's hydro power plant was released into operation on 26 September 1955 and was then the first major venture in post-war construction of the country; to date, there were no serious procedures on HE "Zvornik", in terms of rehabilitation and reconstruction. What is significant and what is not said is that the total value of the project is 90m euros. The EPS, in addition to loans from a German development bank of 70m euros, will provide the rest of the funds needed from its own revenues, because this is extremely important for the EPS. The rehabilitation project envisions replacing the vital parts of the turbine, which would increase power from 96 to 120.4 megawatts. The necessary work on drainage and cooling systems will be done. All four generators will be replaced with new, larger capacity, and a new transformer block will be set up, as well as modernize the hydropower management system. It is very important that after the completion of this project, the hydropower plant will be extended for 30 years. Capacity will be increased by 25%, and electricity production will increase from 477,000 kilowatt hours to 551,000,000 kilowatt hours. The project is expected to begin in early 2012 due to the complex selection process of the most favourable bidders to perform the work. Credit conditions are very favourable. The credit is 15 years old, and the grace period is five years old. Realisation of the HE Rehabilitation Project "Zvornik" EPS will complete the cycle of revitalisation and modernisation of our largest hydropower plants. I would like to stress that the Bajina Basta Hydropower Plant is also financed from KfW credit, i.e. the German Development Bank, as well as the HE "Gerdap 1", which is financed from Russian debt funds to the Republic of Serbia. All this will lead to the significant increase in the production of electricity by the EPS by more than 200 gigawatts per year. It is one of the very important investments that the "Electro-priority of Serbia" has had in recent years, when it comes to electricity production. For this reason, we consider this to be a task and how significant and how profitable this is in debt. It was also assessed by "Electroprivred Serbia". For these reasons, we from the Democratic Party will vote in the day to vote on this item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51898	The word has a folk letter from Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51899	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, the laws that are before us today in a united debate at first sight do not have any touch points. However, when they look a little bit better, it can be concluded that they also have a number of touch points, and above all, that they are created as the result of the wrong economic decisions of the promoters. Some when prepared and adopted, and now ironed, and others, which are also based on wrong analyses and reckless economic assessments, are waiting to be adopted in this parliament, which will cause irreparable damage to the state. In the light of the amendments to the Taxation Act on Use, Holding and Wearing of goods, you state that the reason for its adoption is the tax charge of the owner of the freight vehicles whose maximum mass is less than 3.5 tonnes. How is it that you have just now realized that these vehicles are mainly used for commercial activities and light cargo services, and that this tax is not paid on other freight vehicles? Like, you don't get paid on a tow truck. Well, you've taxed those same laws, or those same vehicles, with a law that came into force on January 1st. However, that seems to be the principle you're handling. Suddenly you realized that the owners of these vehicles are already paying registration, local, municipal, republican municipal taxes and a series of other taxes. How come you didn't see that before when you were preparing this law? To increase the absurdity, you say that the passing of laws under emergency procedure could have consequences for the conditions of performance, which could affect the fulfilment of their fiscal obligations on a second basis. How come now suddenly such an assessment? Why didn't she exist in December? I guess it makes sense, when a law is being prepared, to make detailed analyses, to assess the negative and positive effects of its application in practice. But, no, you work backwards, so if it goes by, if it doesn't, no, you think it'll be easy to change it. All you care about is that the law is passed within a certain time limit, although you are late to its production, although there are a number of bad provisions at the beginning. In your reasons, you are now talking about some kind of fiscal discharge and incentives, and they should all be clapping at you because of this shown concern for the citizens. The fact that, when you determine the tax, the highest damage to the middle class and the poor population, it doesn't matter, you were only interested in the bill. You've calculated, there's so many and so many vehicles whose maximum mass is 3.5 tons, and there's not a lot of them, when they pay taxes, it's an opportunity to raise some money for the budget. The only thing you took care of was how to fill the budget deficit in the conditions of the destroyed economy, the lack of investment and for a number of other reasons. The consequences that the Law will produce in practice were not taken into account at all, as if it were not touching you. The Socially Responsible Government, as Prime Minister Cvetkovic likes to characterise it, has indeed shown itself in full light. However, these changes you are proposing today are not enough to improve the law as a whole and therefore we will not support this proposal. It was similar with the Property Tax Act, which we are now discussing. And that's where you've only been keeping an account of how to fill the budget, which is quite understandable; besides, the government needs to take care of it. However, the government did not take care of the consequences it would produce in practice. A loan agreement between the EU and the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia, amounting to 200m euros, also confirms the tradition of not only excessive borrowing, but also of taking credit under extremely unfavourable conditions. But let's take it in a row. The preamble to the agreement states that the agreement has been concluded since Serbia has requested financial assistance from the EU. It is not about any aid, but about a loan in which the European Commission, which represents the EU, is actually just a mediator. Who's gonna take credit from, we still don't know. This fact is even more scandalous, given that the interest rate height is not precisely defined. Article 6 states that Serbia pays the interest rate in accordance with the written notice of the European Commission, i.e. it pays the interest on each tranche per rate, on the dates and under the conditions laid down in the lending contracts and in the manner that it is written by the lender, or the EU. Really scandalous! You are asking that parliament be made clear about this agreement, of course, with the desire to adopt it, what the ruling majority will do, and that not only the MPs, but also the Government does not know the height of the interest rate and a number of other conditions under which it owes the state, that is, they will be determined by written notice from the European Commission! What do you say to all this? The state, which is largely in charge, is further in debt under conditions that you do not know. It is indeed scandalous that the borrower will only be notified of the interest rate, interest period and a number of other conditions only 15 days before the credit is due. But that's not the end of it, either. It is interesting that Article 6(2) states that if the European Commission, or the EU, is unable to provide funding at maximum or lower rates than those mentioned in the acceptance notice, it is not under any obligation to make the net amount of any tranche available to Serbia available. If this is assessed, financial conditions can be restructured. So, even after receiving the government's acceptance notice, they won't know for sure what conditions she's in charge of, because the level of the interest rate can change after that. It is also interesting that the EU can cancel the whole or part of the outstanding loan at any time, with the current fact, without any compensation. It is also important to say that the tranche is reduced by the amount of commission and financial transaction costs. It's just a fraction of those disputed provisions. Not to mention now that the loan agreement is based on a large number of conditions, which by the EU, which by the IMF, was said by counterpart Mirovic, who apparently perform together. The most important thing is, once again, the fact that not all the conditions related to the interest rate are known. In the end, I'd like to ask you a question. Some time ago, some officials appealed to citizens when they were in debt to the banks, or they took credits to think carefully and studied everything about the interest rate, so that they would not come into a situation where loans could not be returned. Now you present to us a law that contains a lot of ambiguities, while some of its members are very unfavorable for Serbia. I want to ask you -- if you were a citizen, if it were a credit to the population, in a situation where you were in charge under these conditions, would you sign a contract like this? Probably not. To conclude, this is a very unfavourable credit arrangement for Serbia and that is why we will not support this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51900	Mr. Vice President, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51901	Of course, it is possible to try to explain a lot of things, but to say it is not in Serbia's interest to get the conditions of an institution that has the strongest credit rating in the world, such as the EU, is difficult to defend. Under these conditions that you have now read, one thing is clear, and that is that we get exactly the conditions that the EU will get for itself in the international capital market. Who's gonna get the money? Those who have extra money today in the world. These are certain financial institutions of Western Europe and America. It's not impossible at all that part of that money actually came from China, which, as we know, had significant surpluses. It is a question that is not asked for Serbia. The deal we have is that the EU, with its highest credit rating in the world, comes out and provides 200m euros and that money provides Serbia. It is very clear to know in this contract that it does not take any commission and if there are costs, they are indicated here, these are costs relating to implementation, administratively speaking, of this Agreement. Speaking of conditions, I would like to read for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what was signed with Commissioner Olli Rehn. We have exactly ten conditions. Let's see if these conditions are bad conditions, something that is against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, against our country. The first condition is to adopt an amendment to the Law on the Budgetary System, which was done last autumn sovereignly in this House. The second condition is for the draft of our public finance reform strategy to be sent to the relevant institutions for the purpose of preparing such a strategy that should be adopted. The third condition is to adopt sublegal acts that regulate non-budgette funds, with the idea of more transparent out-of-bududge funds, to know what and how money is spent from these funds. The fourth condition is to hire an internal auditor at the finance ministry. The fifth condition is to start implementing a new public debt strategy, especially the broadcasting of government records denominated in dinars, with an 18-month maturity. It's done. It's done with a lot of success in our country and it's essentially deeuroisation, it's going towards the affirmation of dinars as our currencies. Because one thing is certain, and that is that the next currency of Serbia after the dinar is the euro, but it will not happen in the next 10-15 years, because after this crisis, the European Union itself will not want to receive new members, nor, frankly, is it in the interest of the Republic of Serbia to join the euro area in this decade. We are not ready and is not in our national interest to join this eurozone. Those who speak the opposite, neither know enough economics nor may be interested enough in our country. But anyway, one of the conditions is actually to strengthen the role of the dinars and that the Ministry of Finance, together with the National Bank of Serbia, gradually strengthens its capacities and to be able to provide funds in dinars to finance our needs. The sixth condition is further integration of the medium-term expenditure framework into the budget process, especially by introducing three-year budgetary limits. Is that bad for the congregation? That way you'll see for these larger capital investments in which rhythm and how it's planned to work, so it doesn't move - stop. This is something that measured the greater predictability of public finances. The seventh condition is the adoption of accounting standards in the public sector, in line with international standards, so it is known that it can be compared with how money is spent in Serbia's public finances. The eighth condition is adoption, by the National Assembly, amendments and additions to the Law on the State Auditing Institution. It's done and she's now able to boost her own capacity. The ninth condition is for the DRI, under one, to draw up a draft audit report for the final account of the Republic of Serbia for 2009 and, under two, to launch a review for three public enterprises, and that started. Finally, the tenth condition is to preserve and develop administrative capacities in the finance ministry operating in EU integration areas, such as the implementation of a decentralised system and state aid control. Dear People's MPs, not to be a mystery, these are all the conditions for our country to get the cheapest loans in the world. I think it's fair and it's in the interest of our citizens and I urge all MP groups to vote on this, as well as other laws. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51902	Thank you. Mr. Milan Skrbić or Marina Toman? Would you like a replica? I don't see a lot of basics, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51903	Obviously, Minister, you and I didn't understand each other. I was talking about a loan agreement between the EU, the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia. This agreement was not signed by Ollie Rehn. Also, you're talking about some conditions. I'm talking about the conditions relating to this agreement, that they are not clearly defined. No interest rate height defined. I asked you a simple question: if you go to a bank, you want to take a loan, and you're not told at the bank what kind of interest you're going to pay on that loan, would you take that loan? It's a very simple question. You don't have to read Ollie Reno, his statements, his other terms. Would you be in charge of a bank without knowing what interest rate?
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51904	The vice president has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51905	First of all, there's no reason to raise your voice, this is finance. In any case, as you can see from the very agreement you're quoting, Serbia is a sovereign country, no one is forcing us to take this. We fought for it. I set off on behalf of our country two and a half years ago the possibility, with the enormous resistance of the European Union, because it rarely, beyond certain natural disasters... In fact, this instrument was originally designed to ignore a particular problem of such nature in some countries. The argument was that this economic crisis was, in fact, unprecedented from the 1930s, that maybe it wasn't a natural disaster, and that the economic disaster certainly was. I think it's good for our country that we fought for that possibility. The only country that followed this procedure successfully, many others launched but failed, is BiH. They have not yet come to terms with this agreement. What can I say? It is clearly indicated that the EU will provide Serbia with money under the best conditions it can provide for itself. We've had several decades of very clear conditions under which she provides money for herself. She won't go to the capital market and say -- here, this money is for Serbia. No, of course it will be, since the needs of EU funding are measured by tens of billions of euros... In one of the programmes attracting funds in the international capital market, one part of those funds provided will be given to Serbia. Serbia will be informed of the conditions proposed. These conditions will be the best possible at the moment in the world, because the EU has the strongest credit rating in the world. It is not the only one, the World Bank has the same "tripple" or AAA rating. Then our country can sovereignly decide to accept it or not to accept it. We are free, but be assured that it will be an extremely favourable thing, which is in our interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51906	The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić. I'm not going to be able to give toman MPs the right to a replica. There's really no more grounds. Here you go, Mr. Squirt. You've got twenty-two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, in this short time, I will remain, and I will address the citizens and those present here, most of all, on amendments to the property tax law. It is current in all of Serbia and mostly local administrations talk about it and convince changes and additions and what we have recently done, in December it seems to me, this law. We can find out, and it's derived from the law, that property taxes within the meaning of this law are considered property taxes, inheritance taxes and gifts and taxes on the transfer of absolute rights. Authorities of individual municipalities and cities are considering not applying a maximum tax on property 0.4%, which has been prescribed by recently passed law. The Republic government has determined that the maximum tax rate for natural persons on immovable property is 0.4% and on land 0.3%, and each local self-government has until April 1st to decide whether it will be less. By amending the property tax law, the last one, for the largest number of citizens with an asset of up to ten million dinars, the tax rate has not been changed, but tax incentives have been reduced, so this impose will be increased by many. However, the state decided that in 2011, this increase cannot be greater than 60% compared to last year. So far, many municipalities are not stating whether they will reduce the maximum tax rate. So this tax is the main instrument of local tax policy and represents revenue that municipalities themselves charge. The amendments to the law make it easier, so the municipalities will be on the test. They will consider whether it is too much for citizens to raise taxes 60%, given that the election year is and they are potential voters, but also how they will fill out the municipal register, on the other hand. It's a big dilemma. I'll stay at one comment at the beginning. The tax treatment that remains in local self-government according to the idea of Mladjan Dinkic is now working on municipalities. It used to be the offices, tax offices in the municipalities. Right now, the question is, if the municipalities are doing this right now, what about the employees in that tax administration? No one was fired, and the others were employed, and the municipalities had to form new departments and employ a number of new people to be able to handle this part of the tax quality. Many have managed, but there are municipalities that have failed. It was only two years ago that the municipalities tried to put order in the list of all immovableities and force owners to pay taxes. Now I'm asking, and I've already said that here in the Assembly, how, when the borders of this country haven't been solved? The Apatin municipality has one border belt where there's a lot of real estate, for which they simply don't pay anyone, no taxes, because the state hasn't solved the borders. Imagine, state boundaries. On the other hand, last year, we have the same information, one big city has managed to increase by 40,000 of the registered properties, and until then no one has paid. Should we expect that by increasing the number of taxpayers to reduce the overall rate for everyone now? What's wrong with the existing law and the existing system, in fact? Small participation in local self-government revenues, only about 5%, large debt to tax administrations, absence of field control, low rate of charge (about 50%, I said) and more than 40% of non-taxable property. If you believe it, and why not, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Miodrag Djindjic, from 2000 to today, Serbia's budget has been damaged by around 95 billion dinars, as much as tax evasion has been discovered. And how many have not been discovered? A lot. That's just a guess. We can also conclude that local self-government is to blame that part of the business does not pay taxes, because so-called debt tolerance is not to be paid. To those who are powerful, who are to pay, no one is to approach and seek and send a warning, a lawsuit, or, God forbid, something else, and the comments are – which people would pay if neither the government nor the presidency paid them. They can do as they please, and I will try to give two examples from my municipality, very drastic, of the violation of the law, which this government violates. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I am looking at Parliament, in front of everyone, in front of the public, in front of the citizens of the Municipality of Apatin, just following the law. Namely, on December 1, 2009, 70% of the "Apatian brewery" stock was sold at the price of 7.001 dinars, and the next day, on December 2, 1,949,930 shares were sold at a slightly higher price – 8,406 dinars, totaling 1,950,000 shares, as per the Central Register, "Apatian brewery" owns. So, traffic is 100% action and the owner has been changed. Since, to this day, the buyer has not filed a tax application to determine the obligation to pay taxes on the sales of absolute rights, which is within the meaning of the Law on the financing of local self-government income of the Municipality of Apatin, where the seat of the legal person to be sold is, within the meaning of Article 36(1). The property tax law was due within ten days of the purchase, in order to carry out the legal procedure of establishing the obligation to pay taxes on the transfer of absolute rights under Article 24 of the same law, we asked and sent letters to many addresses, and to the Ministry, to act only by law. We sent a letter to the Belgrade Stock Exchange, a copy of the Business Register, a notice to the Central Register on the financial transaction, a notice on the acquisition of shares since 4 December. We've sent all the papers, but there's no paper to this day. It's a violation of the law. We wanted to specify something in December with an amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, however, the government probably didn't look at it, or pay attention, just because it came from the SRS parliamentary club and simply rejected it. We have proposed this amendment to supplement the Property Tax Act, so that this legal norm will cover the situation of the stock exchange and the non-bersian sale of legal persons through the takeover of their stock on the stock market, which gives the new owner the right to dispose of the entire assets of the legal person. This would improve the law and thus fill in the legal gap that allowed tax authorities to sell all legal person actions on the stock market in the application of Article 24(2) of this Act, as a mere takeover of some worthless paper, for which there is no need to pay taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, which is ridiculous. Thus, a huge sales transaction of 1,950,000 "Apatian Beers" on December 1st and 2nd 2009, worth 170,000,000 euros, remained untaxed by the tax on the transfer of absolute rights. It is explained that the purchase of all these shares does not buy the entire assets of "Apathian brewers" as if they do not express on the market the stock value of the total assets of "Apatian brewers", which is funny, but rather some special value to themselves, separated from the property of a legal person. The tax was supposed to be 409,000,000 dinars, no interest, which would have been in the empty register of the Municipality of Apatin, but there is nothing to date. These are the eligible income of local self-government referred to in Article 35(1) of point 3 of the Law on the financing of local self-government. On the other hand, the government is full of mouths to want strong local self-government, decentralisation, union, regions. It's totally the opposite. If you're... Not you, that's what I was saying to the finance minister, who, according to you, was a non-partisan figure. She hasn't answered whether there are any lobbys that have stalled it, but I remind you that this case doesn't go out of date for five years and that we're going to remind you of every assembly on this case of violations of the law, and you'll see, the citizens of the Apatin municipality, what's behind the hill is good. The truth must come out. I've still got time to give another example from the Apatin municipality, what a care. It is also about the revenues of local self-government, which is the subject of an estimate of the value of "Metal" Apatin's capital, companies that are now in ruins, which were working. By the way, one of the customers was the current promoter, one of the leading people in our community, where the workers were strikers, have no rights. They've all spoken to each other, but no one's been able to answer them. There were data, and I also came as a member of the Privatisation Committee, that they did not find in the privatisation prospectus the estimated value of the following items in the company: trafo-cell strength of 630 kilowatts, boiler rooms with accompanying facilities, working tables with equipment, open and closed storerooms, streams of various types (ten pieces), various rodents, various brasils, fleet, passenger and freight vehicles, other equipment and inventory from lists. We believe that all this property that is not covered by the sale has its value, because it is used today in the process of production. Not right now, 'cause it all matters. It would certainly increase the ‘Metal’ value. Thus, the 5% capital tax that remains for local self-government would be higher. So we have opposites, one is said, the other is done in the field. It's totally inappropriate to estimate the value of capital. I believe these people are sitting in the Agency today. These people addressed about 15 addresses, the Committee and the ministries, and received no answers. They're freaked out, they don't get paid. You have to write something down first, so you can charge taxes. I'm sorry, it's a short time, we'll move on to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51908	Thank you. Ambassador Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51909	Mr. Djelic, I must warn you that you would need to read the stenograms of the National Assembly, especially that part of what you were saying, to learn a lesson in the future, when you intend to speak, where you do not make a mistake. You were abroad, you don't know, there was a so-called. Kumrovska's political school: beating up empty straw all day and not saying anything in the end. We laughed 20 years ago as some opposition because they weren't concrete. You know, Ollie Rehn and the European Union say -- we only guarantee Serbia a European perspective. A European perspective. Does that mean anything? It doesn't mean anything. You just tried to tell us, explaining one of these bill proposals, that it's quality and good assumptions. We have no idea what that means, what you were going to say – good and quality assumptions in the bill. What are those bad assumptions? You see how wrong this is with our Rules of Procedure, when most votes to join the agenda – eight points of the agenda and you miss the law. One law was spoken of by Marina Toman, you responded using the argument of the other law. She was talking about financial conditions, and you were defending yourself with political conditions. It's an amazing thing. If this is so epic for Serbia, for all citizens of Serbia, what do you combine the agenda points? You could have boasted eight times in five hours. You're looking to get it through, faster or better, so we don't know. I must draw your attention, Mr. Djelic, it is said that the property is a set of property rights. It is said that the owner has the right to use, manage and dispose. The property tax is to be paid. But how can something that is subject to property rights be burdened on a number of different grounds? I'm talking about city building land and using building land. But that's a tough subject for you. Is that in our regulations? We had European changes to the property tax law on December 29th. Now tell me what these changes are after two months? What is the problem with European standards? We probably haven't read the new standard book. In the meantime, the standards changed? Are you aware of what you just said about the conditions of credit -- that these are the best conditions, and Serbia will have no problem in six years when it is due to return, because then it will come out of the crisis. It is a message to the citizens of Serbia – we are falling more and more into crisis, and only in six years can we think about getting out of the crisis. Who's going to live to see those six years? Do you remember, when you came, you and your group – licking, licking, borrowing, shopping, new cars, new apartments, new buses, etc. It's a failed lysing. How many broken-down lysings are there? How many of those cars are in the parking lot? What did the one who got into the long-term housing loan trust you? Be careful, on January 21, 2000, we won the first democratic government. What is this today? Third democratic government. You are the convincing first democratic minister to come from abroad. How many democratic ministers have come from abroad now? You tell us a really nice story here. I have no doubt that you can speak well for 16 days; it may be pointless, but it is emotional, theatreically, for any praise. Mr. Djelic, every year when there is a good singer at the "Sava Centre" on 8 March – Željko Samardzic. He's loved by women, and God and men love his songs. He has a beautiful song that reflects Mirko Cvetkovic's government. The song reads as follows: "In October, it will be in November; in November, it will be in December." You can sing further – it will be better, it will be better and there will be no problems. People have a right to think it'll get better. But this is 11 years of waiting to go better! Explain now to the citizens of Serbia why we changed the government? I think you've changed the government very unqualityly. If you wanted to change ministers, you needed the first set... (President: This is yesterday's agenda point, just to remind you. Never mind, you finished yesterday. That's not the problem. You didn't watch TV? The media public service, Mrs Djukic, announced that the government was elected. Yesterday you had to pay special attention to the people who burn here for the EU. Some talk, some defend the EU with silence. It's just amazing to me that you didn't put Srdjan Milivojevic in office to be Deputy Prime Minister. You could have replaced Krkobic with Micunović; he was younger than three months old, and he has more hair. Renata Radjko Milic could have been chosen as the new finance minister. Look at what she's doing in Belgrade, she's too capable. It is that she started as a cook at Djindjic's, but she learned a woman in the meantime. She learned her job. She would be a better finance minister than Cvetkovic, and then there wouldn't be a problem when the law fails, she would explain it to us professionally. You could have chosen new ministers as many as you wanted. Guys, when are you guys telling the truth? In December... The truth you announced in December only lasted until the beginning of February. You know, it's no problem that politics is changing, but when politics changes, people change, because it's proof that this new policy has sincere protagonists. Not with us. Everything can change, but people stay the same. It's simple, the people want them and worship them. When you passed the 2011 Budget Law, all this went through. This is just a technical matter now. There's no criticism here. You know, when you put eight dots together, you have some things that might be justified. For example, Hydrocentre Mali Zvornik – probably something needs to be settled, and probably that loan is favourable, but then the question is, do we have any internal reproductive abilities? Is it possible for you to base all your successes on borrowing? Then you tell us, so profoundly, in six years we'll be out of the crisis and in six years Serbia will be able to bring back 400,000, there will be no problems. You know how he's gonna get back? Some new borrowing. Where did the production increase? Let the stats go. Where did the number of employees increase? Nowhere. Mr. Djelic, I do not dispute that you are the golden ones. You've explained all this nicely and well, but only from the position that citizens have the right to hope, to expect – this is very important, if it's not in October, since it's that signature, so it's supposed to be waiting... You've seen the Styrofoams delay everything. Did you hear what they said earlier -- and they would like to go to the European government. There's a lot of money, so he won't leave the government any younger now that the money's here. It's got to get a little old. That's the whole story, who's gonna get so tired of that crayon. And who's coming back? Well, I had good wishes, Mr. Djelic will tell us. I've known him a long time ago, what he represented as European regulations in 2003. I'm going to put this guy in charge of making a book about Djelic, just to take a stenogram and see how the same thing changes in a month, and over here, and over there, as the need arises, and how much of an empty straw can be pounded in the media. The citizens rightly expect a nice thing. How can it not be nice? Mr. Djelic is a complete man, he's a successful man. All right, well, if it's everything, he hasn't been able to cheat everything, but he did, in a material sense. It's a benchmark of success today, as much as you have. Depending on how much you have, your power depends on it. Now citizens rightly expect politicians to be Santa Claus. When some politicians show up, they all say -- and he's got money, now he's gonna be this big. It's just a story - the euro, the euro, the euro, the euro, the euro. Please, who's gonna take care of this after you? I know you have great media power, 90% every second, every space in the media is under control... (President: If you can, bring the end. Time's up. ) Thank you so much for not punishing me.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51910	Dear People's MPs, does anyone who has not used their right to address from our 96th Rules of Procedure want to speak? Yes, Mr. Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51911	Dear President, Mr. Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to make a very brief statement on the amendments and additions to the law on citizens' property. He who is employed for his work receives privileges. However, there are people who, for their work, have received special awards and recognitions for particularly implemented actions and actions, who have made a personal contribution to the benefit of the state and to the defence of the state. Some got cash prizes, some got art paintings, someone got medals and medals, some got handbooks, plaques, diplomas, etc. However, we have been approached by a citizen from the Kingdom, Mr. Miljanovic; he has a objection to this law and has a personal problem. There are also those who, instead of such rewards, received a gun, or a gun, a gun. You know very well that such a gift, as a reward, could have been given by the President of the Republic and two other people, the Minister of Interior and the Minister of People's Defence. A parliamentary group of joint pensioners of Serbia believes that all citizens of the country must pay property tax the way the law treats it. In this case, we believe that this kind of group of people, given that it is a small number, there are few of those people who in some of the actions of interest for the state have received such recognitions, should be freed from paying taxes on a revolver, because they are not gun collectors who give money, for their known reasons, to get their hands on weapons. These confessions were public, the press published, the SUP has everything inscribed. It is not right that the Ministry of Interior is now asking them to pay taxes and taxes for what they were good, and they didn't get money, they didn't get medals and everything else, an act in the military or on other occasions. Please, it may be possible to protect these people in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51912	Thank you, Mr. Snack. I give my word to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51913	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, first to respond to this last - this is not the topic of today's debate, but in case the honourable MP wants to direct the initiative, it is an initiative for the Ministry of Finance. The MUP has its own policy, which follows in this domain, and the Ministry of Finance is in charge of taxation. Let me thank you in the end, all the political parties, for this content discussion. Dear People's MPs, there are two laws ahead of you. The first will ensure greater social justice and flexibility in the taxation of assets. It is an extremely important topic, something that will bring this law into line with other laws of our country in the field of tax, which will ensure that we do not have two feet in one calendar year, and I urge you to vote on the law on amendments and additions to the Law on property taxes. As for the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, it is clear that here it aims to exempt from taxation of smaller vans, which have less than 3.5 tonnes, which are actually means to work, to attract. It was an oversight and it is now being corrected, so at this difficult economic moment we give better conditions to many people who need to transport for work, not their own needs. Finally, we have a series of financial arrangements. Two are really innovative: the one with the EU of 200m euros, the other with the World Bank, worth $400m. Of course, today we discussed whether Serbia needed to be in debt. The way one country does not have to be in debt is that it has a balanced budget, but a balanced budget is less likely to launch economic activity. Since the 1930s, Kanca and its followers, almost all countries in the world have moderate budgets, which do not endanger macroeconomic stability and coin, while at the same time contributing to the activation of demand and, therefore, economics. This is largely what some countries have applied that have declared ideology far from the social democratic, for example liberal, that is the instrument that they used at this point in the great economic crisis. We cannot, on the one hand, say we need a moderate budget deficit (I repeat, one of the lowest in Europe today, of 4.1% of GDP) and on the other hand say no and we do not want to be in debt. In fact, the real theme is how to find the best-quality sources of funding deficits. Today we have several extremely favourable arrangements. This is proof that the guarantees for them are the three institutions that have the best credit rating, "trippley" or "AA": the EU, the World Bank and Germany's Development Bank, which will ensure that for our needs, for the budget, and for investments in the Zvornik hydropower plant, quality sources are provided. We have another arrangement that is classic, but also how politically important, humane, which is the guarantee of a commercial bank for our municipalities in northern Kosovo, which will ensure that after so many years water supply is restored and that, regardless of their ethnicity, life is better for all people. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a set of very diverse texts and domains ahead of you, that is correct, but which as one common thread has the citizens' interest and therefore I urge all political parties to vote them. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-15-0.u51914	I thank the honourable Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic. Allow me to conclude a joint principle and uniform search on: Amendments and Supplements to the Law on property taxes, the Bill on the Amendments of the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods, the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the “Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank” a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvečan and Zubin Potok, the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the German Financial Institution of KfW under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise of “Electroprivreda of Serbia” (Project of Rehabilitation of HE Zvornik), the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Credit Agreement between the EU and the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Albania's Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Albania's Republic of Albania, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia Dear People's MPs, dear Vice President, thank you for your participation in the work. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we begin today's session, please pay our respects to the victims of the disaster in Japan in a moment of silence. Praise them. We continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are some 87 MPs in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session, in addition to representatives of Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior and Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, the sittings are attended by Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Zorica Lončar Kasalica, Head of the Department of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior, Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department for Standard Affairs at the Ministry of Justice, Goran Tokic, Head of the Department of International Legal Assistance in Criminal Affairs at the Ministry of Justice, Nina Gavrilović, Inspector at the Office of the Minister of the Interior, Bureau of International Co-operation and European Integration and Aleksandr Popović, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Justice. We're continuing our work. Vlad Ivica Dacic's authorised representative is on the Security Committee in the Assembly building, so he will join us later. Him or someone else from the government. THE PROGRAMME OF THE PROGRAMME OF THE THIRD FURTHER PROTOCOL WITH THE EUROPEAN CONVENTION OF EXTRADY, THE PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON THE CONCERNING OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE MEMBER STATES AND THE CONCERNING OF THE CONCERNING OF THE CROSS OF SERBIA The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, as well as that this time shall be allocated to the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds, the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds, the URS Parliamentary Group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds, the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes, the SPS - JS - 18 minutes, the LDP Group - 15 minutes and 36 seconds, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds, the Salad Group of Minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Third Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Extradition, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Forced Existances, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the Extradition, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry or stay is illegal with the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the Republic of Macedonia on the Implementation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Treaty on the Republic of Serbia's Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty and the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Law of Serbia. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word, or does the rapporteur of the Defence and Security Committee? They're not here. ) The board is going on, which means we don't have Dusan Bajatovic. Does the Justice and Administration Committee's rapporteur want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Transport and Communications Committee, MP Velimir Ilic, want a word? He's not here. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? An authorised representative of the SRS is Boris Aleksic. First I give the word to the MP Milic Vojić Markovic.
