ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52887	We continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 92 MPs are present in the hall and that there are working conditions prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Konstantin Samofalov. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic Dejanovic called for today's session to be attended by a representative of promoter Bozidar Djelic, deputy prime minister of government. We move to the 7th point of the agenda – Proposal for an Amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Taxes on Immigrants (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Natasa Vučković, Nenad Konstantinović, Milan Avramović, Bojan Mladenovic, Nenad Popović, Arsen Đurić, Vjerica Radeta, Gordana Pop Lazić, Milorad Buha, Aleksandar Pejčić, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djerić, Aleksandra Ilic and Petar Jojic. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Nenad Konstantinovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Since we do not have the opinion of the parent board, this amendment will be declared by the National Assembly in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52888	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, respecting the provisions of Article 91. Serbia's constitution, which states that the funds from which the powers of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government are financed from taxes and other incomes established by law, and other taxes are general and based on the economic power of the obligor, I asked that in the draft law in Article 1(1) be deleted, with the following explanation: Article 7 of the proposed changes and additions, it is said that local self-government can raise taxes by up to 60%, with Belgrade's town making a statute according to which municipalities in the status of local communities and the city of Belgrade will most likely raise taxes up to 60%, which has no logical connection with the state of local self-government units in the city of Belgrade. Local self-governments do not have economic power, as envisioned by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to respect the decision of the city of Belgrade and therefore I asked for attitude 1 to be deleted. Respecting the work of the ruling majority MPs, through a petition parade collected by the Democratic Party activists in Belgrade's central municipalities, they managed to act as a tax reduction and, unlike 10 acres, higher than the previously offered solution, but not to solve the permanent problem of those living in central Belgrade... So, property tax relative to economic power... It's supposed to be really proportionate to the economic strength of local self-government. The municipalities in Belgrade do not have the status of local self-government, which is the city of Belgrade, and this is a huge problem for municipalities located on the periphery and in the centre, and will have the same prescribed base and tax rate foreseen for payment. What was proposed by my amendment is not how it was written by a technical error, through the Government's reply why my amendment is not accepted, but as I wanted to present it, which is to free everyone from taxes, both those who have up to 10 acres and those who have over 10 acres. This enables all those who pay other types of tax to be released from these obligations and to be, in proportion to economic strength, able to live on parcels and on building land where they live and now. The ministry and government adopted an amendment of the ruling majority MPs, which also cited building land other than land. That's what they did for themselves. I'll remind you that the President of the Sava Veneto municipality has organized a stands against building a bridge over the Ade spectre. Paravan was – destroying Topcider, and essentially, the background of it is that the bridge goes ahead or over his house. This is how it is done today: here is the essential front for building land discount up to 10 acres, as opposed to 10 up, because the facilities on the Savaweather are mostly the buildings of Members of the ruling majority, officials and government. Over 10 acres of land have only a certain type of people, a category that has either inherited it or, in some strange world, a special position, has reached 10 acres of land at an extra location in the city of Belgrade, or in local self-government, whatever you want to call it. Why do I tell the special world? Because it happens that citizens of Belgrade, central municipalities, have to sell their facilities because the plot is over 10 acres, although these facilities are not very conditional on life, because they are forced to go to the periphery for tax purposes and to give whoever has the opportunity to pay that tax to buy land for a living. So whoever has a 110, 120-square house will have to pay 1,200 euros, retail, per square, which is essentially the cost of construction. With this proposed solution in Article 7 local self-government can raise taxes compared to the existing state no more than 60%. So, not to comment on the petition cover collected by the Democratic Party activists to accept this amendment, because it is the positions of MPs who are in power and the minister who is from their party... Well, and just adopting the amendment isn't weird, but the cover that's been made to pay taxes, to avoid the possibility of staying alive where you live, because the pay is over 10 acres, is a completely unacceptable fact. You know, that's what I discussed when Minister Dulic was there, that a huge number of common users of one parcel have over 10 acres, not their own fault, that they are common land users, that the reparation costs only for a licensed name of 500 euros per application and that they had no financial opportunity to do so and to free the tax. Then it was a variant – who has a salary of 9.5 acres does not pay taxes, who has 10.5 tax salaries. For that one ar or any change of distinction, not knowing that you would accept the amendment of the ruling majority MPs, I wrote that item 1 was deleted. That is why the minister, if he already wanted to comply with Article 91. The constitution, that the relatively economic power determines the level of tax without giving that possibility to local self-governments that will behave according to the mood of local self-government, at least in the city of Belgrade, in view of the mood of the mayor who makes the final decision... The residents of the central municipalities and the poor positions of the government, the relationship between the mayor and the municipalities, will be the victims. That's why the minister was supposed to accept this amendment of mine. That's why I'm sorry there's no one to answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52889	Three minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nenad Konstantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52890	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I don't think my colleague Avramovic understands what he's talking about. What he just told us is that it's not a good thing that the government has accepted our amendment that tax is not paid on land owned by the garden. Never in this country has land tax been paid up to 10 acres. No land tax was paid up to 10 acres, and when it was only the right to use, it is not paid today either. What we have introduced with the amendment is that it is not paid even on property rights on land, since we have passed the Law on Planning and Construction which has led to land conversion and now our citizens, for the first time since World War II, can be the owners of the country where their home is located. So tax is not paid on land under the facility, it's regulated by this law, and tax is not paid on the yard up to 10 acres. This does not apply only to people from the Savawere and the grandfather, it applies to all citizens of Serbia. That solution that was proposed would lead to people in every village, every city, in every municipality, paying taxes on the garden. So that's not gonna happen. Can property tax be determined according to economic power? I don't think so. He must be determined according to the property. Of course, in the law, there must be relief for those who are weaker in assets and who use that property for their daily needs, compared to those who have such assets as acquired wealth in addition to the assets they use, or in which they live. These reliefs in this law exist. We think they should be better and that some of the next laws need to improve that. I think what colleague Avramovic told us is only a demagogy. That the petition is a front and that 4,000 citizens at the invitation of us MPs and the Municipality of the Sava Venc signed a petition, it certainly cannot be a front. So citizens organized in the central Belgrade municipalities and asked for such amendments and it is good that the government accepted the amendments. They also asked for a change in the rules relating to the coefficient to be calculated in the extra zone and we hope that we will succeed in changing that rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52891	Two minutes and thirty seconds used by the MP's group. Right on line, MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52892	Well, it wouldn't have been if I had called someone by name and last name, but they recognized themselves, because they're from the Sava Veneto municipality. So that's in favor of me being right. The conversion of the right of use to property is defined by another member, another law, and it has nothing to do with what Mr. Konstantinovic is saying. The second thing, I'll remind you, Mr. Konstantinovic, was that there were more petitions by citizens precisely in your party, so they never saw the light of day. Which is why I don't know. This is about your property. You live on Santa, you have a big salary, you have these opportunities to make it easy on yourself first, then the rest of you. If you think of yourself as a socially endangered category, I can give you a donation and you can issue me a receipt. As for this cover, which is not the first time related to the Democratic Party, I must tell you what the president of the municipality has said about this. He said – unless Minister Cvetkovic accepts our demands, I will invite all citizens of the Savawedding not to pay taxes at all. Well, now, if you agree with that and if you've adopted this under that pressure, I thank you for that, but that's proof that you don't have co-ordination with the president of the municipality you live in, let alone the basic tax rate that may be determined by the mayor, who also has no contact with the president of the municipality, which is a complete sadness. So, in the future, sort out the situation in your house, then step out into the yard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52893	Right on line, MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52894	counterpart Avramovic, I am sorry that you failed to catch some political point in this topic, but you failed because you did not remember to help the citizens of the Sava Wreath, Belgrade and Serbia. Don't be angry with us for doing this. Do not be angry that everyone knows that the Democratic Party has launched a petition, which the Democratic Party has submitted to the amendments and that the amendments of the Democratic Party that favour citizens have been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52895	Right on line, MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52896	Mr. Konstantinovic, I don't know if you have dementia or if you're senile. I'll remind you of the assembly session... (President: National MP, please remember that the right to the replica does not mean and the right to violate other members of the Rules of Procedure which oblige you to be polite, so that, with the apology of the People's Parliament, continue the replica. ) I apologize for the misreading, Mr. Konstantinovic, I think you have not forgotten what happened at the Assembly of the Municipality, that I have just launched the formation of a commission that will consider the position of the citizens of the Sava Venec in relation to the situation of other citizens both Belgrade and Serbia, and that you have not just accepted the formation of the Commission, because I have requested that the municipal council, in accordance with the Statute of the municipality, demand from the city the cancellation of the decision on the zoning of the city of Belgrade, thereby removing damage and credit for the treatment of city building land and taxes which will pay the central municipalities and to make the role and position of the citizens of the Savawen in relation to all others, by what they have at their disposal, and what others have... I reminded you of parts of the Savaweather in which people have neither drain nor water supply nor sewerage, nor increased electricity voltage, without talking about shops, markets and everything else, such as the Small Hill. So, in order for this not to be a session of the So Sava Wreath, you could have gotten out there in a replica, that I would explain it to you nicely, but it's my duty to say that the Democratic Party didn't want to form a committee at the request of the citizens. We were elected by the citizens, not by you. You later arrived at the Sava Wreath, and we grew up here, and that's the big difference, which is why we stand for a better life at the Savawedding, compared to those of you who already attributed yourself to a point you don't have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52897	National MP Natasa Vuckovic has a word. I'm just asking you to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52898	The truth works, just to point out that the commission was formed at the last session of SO Sava Wreath and that, as far as I know, it was also the first meeting of members of that committee, where some MPs did not participate because we had a day to vote in the Serbian Parliament. So it's not, in any way, fair or fair that you're not telling the truth. The Commission is formed at the last session of the SO Sava Wreath.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52899	National MP Milan Avramovic has the right to reply. This closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52900	This is what we're going to close down, because citizens need to know the truth. So, Mrs. Vukkovic, it has been accepted that my proposal to make a commission is on the agenda. When the agenda came, Mr. Konstantinovic explained why the proposal was not accepted and left the Assembly Hall. So, here, for the sake of truth, let it be the following information: Mrs. Vukkovic, if I am right, and you will see from the minutes of session SO, you will resign, and if you are right, I will resign. That'll solve all the dilemmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52901	MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52902	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as someone has well noticed, this is not a session of the SO Sava Wreath, but a session of the Serbian Parliament. The Democratic Party submits amendments concerning all citizens of Serbia. I live in Kruševec, and I am very pleased that this amendment has been submitted and adopted, because it applies to us who live in Kruševec, not the Savawedding. Also, the truth works, the Konstantinovic family has lived there for nearly 200 years, so I'm sorry some don't know. On the other hand, the truth is, I know it's a tradition in Serbia that the gods honor themselves and leave the parties and go to parties, but I ask those who speak of my godmothers to take care of them and take this as they please, but take it seriously. Because it may be in your tradition, in the party you belong to, that you have a godmother by the tradition of Karadjord and Obrenović. Here, however, in the Democratic Party, a little more takes care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52903	MP Zoran Krasic. National MP Milan Avramović... you can use the time of the parliamentary group, if you like. You want to use MP time, Mr. Krassic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52904	Mrs. Komic, thanks to this kind of tolerance, you released the debate, the public had the opportunity to learn many important details. The first detail is that there's something wrong with the ruling majority. Through the form of respect and application of the Rules of Procedure, they submit amendments and enter not only into the heart but also into the liver and the appendix of the Government. Imagine, they're attacking the concept of government, which transformed a few days ago. We now see that some people from the Democratic Party, the "resilient" part, are attacking the democratic part of the party, classical. I don't want to get into who's burning a bag, why is it burning a bag, that's another question. It is important that we have learned some very important details from this debate. First, at the time of this kind of transition, as you like to say, we're actually showing... When I tell you, the government shows by the bill that it doesn't know what the basics of property-legal relations are. That's the first thing we could notice. Another thing we learned: the government's legislation almost doesn't exist. It is only reduced to category – interest. A third detail that is very important: The government, which for two years does not respect its Law on the financing of local self-government, elegantly leaves (although, in accordance with the law, it must say) a complete system of taxation of property to local self-government, in order for dissatisfied citizens to chase into the municipality, in local self-government, and not to pursue more tax administrations, government, ministers, Prime Minister, Prime Minister; they cannot complain about those with Dedinj. Then we came to the conclusion that there are actually two concepts. One concept is based on the principle of "take everything that life gives you", so we will appreciate the economic strength and material opportunities of citizens as to who comes to mind. There is another variant, which wants to protect the acquired positions of those who at the time of transition have come to a very large wealth. That's not where the funds are chosen. I'll bring it up to you, say, an example of the Rusk municipality. Stole two councilmen, hired the children of those councilmen at the ministry to someone there, on the other hand. In Raska, songs are shared in twelve. Why? It's the swimsuit. Because of the location on the Kopalnik. Because while the radicals were in power, they could not have been burazeric, but only through competition, so for two or three locations of ten acres, or slightly more than ten acres, the municipality took millions of euros and invested in infrastructure. Then came the new pro-Europeans. How do they end up in the bathroom, inn with their rich? Let's steal two councilmen, make some new majority and - finish the job. Everything is in line with the democratic principle "democracy is where most are". It's no longer a form, it's no longer an alternative, no, where most are. I don't mean to tell you what parties they are, they're recognized. If they don't know each other, I brought this folk song in ten, what's going on in Raska. Because of the bathing suit, the extra location. Why is the amendment submitted by our MP Milan Avramovic not understood? Because half the truth is in the story. As long as there was a right to use on city building land, citizens paid compensation for the use of construction land. Right? When they became apartment owners, they paid property tax for the housing unit, the house. Now there's this so-called. Conversions, i.e. in the announcement of conversion. There are also conversions based on denationalization, and I'm going to tell you about it in particular, in Nis what happens when my Bole comes, because I can't do it without Bosko Ristic. You've seen everything he does -- disaster. Did you see what happened in Nisa with that event of yours? Get away from Bosko Ristic. Everything's messed up. We are now in a position to show on this article what economic power is. An adequate economic strength is also one that has an ar in possession and one that has a hectare in its possession. Why would one who has nine acres be freed and one who has ten and a half acres pay taxes? On what grounds? Is he proving his greater economic strength by having a larger amount of real estate? Well, they're all relatively taxed and they should be relatively taxed for every square inch, if that's the concept you represent. But no. Secondly, in addition to this bill, you have openly written that there is no European regulation that regulates this. So there's no obligation. You can't call the IMF anymore. We'd do it, but the IMF... We'd do it, but the NATO Pact... We'd do it, but the EU... So that excuse doesn't exist. There's something called principle and there's something called citizens' interests. You're so elegant now... On the basis of this law, there is a story – respected citizens, everything will be the same as last year, only we told local self-government – you must not increase more than 60% compared to last year. Excuse me, please, that's unserious. Now I would like to explain to you something about material opportunities and economic strength and the scale used in taxation and citizen participation in the financing of government functions. It's another thing when it comes to personal income. In the case of personal income, a tax may be introduced which would be progressive. We have an income tax of 10% on every income, personal income of citizens. Well, at the end of the year, we have that synthetic, total citizen income. We can also introduce proportional taxation, because that's what a man earned through his work and showed his material opportunity, etc. Here we have this so-called. It's a static. We have a state here, we have an immovableity that's defined in some way. Please, I have to tell you, it's totally unacceptable for me that a man at the same time pays compensation for the use of construction land and property tax, if that's property property. It's college stuff. These are things that are contrary to the basic principles of Roman law. I mean, he can do anything here. Here and the chairman can give the professor of law school a warning because he said something or criticized something that would make the students fall. But such is democracy, there is no more perfect form. First of all, I object and object to people who work in government legislation, people who work on the affairs of the finance ministry's legislation that they should not have allowed this to go away, because now, practically, this regulation continues agony in property-legal relations, while respecting the fact that taxation is something that is related to the fact that it is. There are entire categories of tax payments where it is not related to property etc., but to the practical state, such as, say, illegal construction, etc. Simply, the tax authorities are only interested in who's going to pay, so he doesn't have to own it. But that's another logic. The basis for that principle must be based on something that is postulate. Kids learn these things at college. Why would 9.5 acres be in one legal status and 10.5 acres in another legal status? Or, as for agricultural land, yesterday I was in Subotica, they told me – a hundred miles on the left hand side of a road, all owned by one man. He took advantage of the transition, Mrs. Comic. We have transition losers, probably about 99% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You know, whoever has the material opportunity has the economic power, he'll pay every tax. Even if he's a monopoliest or in a position to earn abnormally in this country, he doesn't get hit by anything, at the very least. But this is really a political insolence to throw hot potatoes at local self-government. Probably someone is angry about that petition by the president of 151 municipalities, who have criticised why two years of not applying the Law on the financing of local self-government. These are now the main reasons why they resorted to this legal solution. I must say that in the amendment that Natasha and Konstantinovic wrote there is some logic, I must admit, but the principle issue has not been resolved. So you can't see the principle that's being applied here. Or is the principle in force only – let it be seized? If it's the principle to grab, excuse me, please, then there's no law required, then no one should be called to the Constitution, no one should be called to some standards etc. Then it's enough to have 126, so we can do whatever we want. I guess we all realized that this principle is 126, or I'm putting up with the amendment, and I'm looking at number 126, and it's got to be the past, because everything comes back as a boomerang, and it's going to hit everyone's head. I'm sure Mr. Avramovic's amendment is good, but he really does raise the principle issue, and I don't see the willingness to resolve it. We also had the first item of the agenda at this session that didn't fully define this question, because there's another burden that you're going to have to sort out, about the restitution, but I'm not going to stick my finger in your eyes, I know it's painful. If that were easy, it would have been resolved in 2001, but it is an insolvent problem in Serbia. In time, I'm just distracting you. Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52905	Eleven minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Does anyone else want to talk about the details, about the amendment to Article 1? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52906	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, I would like to make one comment on this amendment and the debate that was being held on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club. So, the law says, and there is former Finance Minister Mr Djelic, so he could confirm if I happen to be wrong, that 1.7% of GDP is returning to municipalities and cities. That law has been broken for a year or two. Then the government made a move allowing municipalities to increase property tax to 60%. What was the reason for that move? First, since few citizens know that this is now a 100% income local, so municipal, or urban, their impotence and disrespect of the law, the government wanted to bring local self-government. I come from Chačka, a city that fights as well as it can, the best it can. As advice to all local self-governments and cities, here's what they did, so the 2010 tax for a good number of citizens in the town of Cačka was lower. So, they hired young people, students, whether through student or youth cooperatives, and they managed to write, I believe, almost all construction buildings and houses, apartments, for which for years, dozens of people have not paid taxes at all, so the total amount of tax paid in the local budget is higher than in previous years. For that reason, the tax could have been lower. I believe it's going to be smaller in 2011. This reform government and all the governments since 2000, as far as I know, and here is Mr Djelic, who should be a witness here, have advocated that there be as many taxpayers to pay taxes as possible, in order for the tax to be reduced. I repeat, the point is that the government does not respect a law that says that 1.7% of GDP is returning to local self-government and cities. That's why the mayors, from any party that they are, are rebelling. So, the government wants to put its impotence and a hole in the budget, so to speak, and the anger of the citizens, on local and urban self-government. It's not fair, it's not correct and it won't be able to work for long, especially because of 50 municipalities, the most underdeveloped, that are in desperate condition. So that you increase their property tax, Mr. Djelic, and 300 percent, they won't be able to charge first, because citizens don't have that money, and they'll be left with big holes in the budget. As a representative of the government who defends this bill today, I advise you to start following a law that says that 1.7% of GDP is returning. It's a legal obligation. So there's no talking, we will or we won't. My question to you, since I believe that you are one of the most equidistant ministers and that you will be involved in this discussion, should you tell local self-governments and leaders and citizens of Serbia whether you will respect this law for this year, which says that 1.7% of GDP is returning to citizens, or local self-government? Just to remind you, the town of Cachak has been damaged by over 400,000 dinars for the past two years (I think you've been well acquainted, you've often been in Chačka) due to violations of the law by the government. So that's the money that's been taken from the citizens of Chacka. Please, at least this year you respect that 1.7% of GDP law as it returns to local and urban self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52907	They were used four minutes from the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52908	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment that Article 1 of this bill deletes Article 2 because this draft law amending and supplementing the property tax law will not change what the SRS wants, what the citizens of Serbia want, and that is that all Serbian citizens are equal when it comes to paying the property tax. The proposed text of the Bills put into an unfair position of taxpayers, i.e. landowners of up to ten acres and over ten acres, by keeping landowners of up to ten acres free of the obligation to pay taxes on property, and land owners having more than ten acres have a obligation to pay taxes, now paying the difference between the land-owned area and the area of ten acres. This violates the provision of equality and equality in the obligations to settle tax obligations towards the economic strength of the debtors. Because it doesn't necessarily mean that someone who owns an ar, two, or three more automatically is more economically powerful and stronger. This claim is based only on facts, and in practice it is often a different case. Why does it have to mean that whoever owns an ar more and economically stronger? Absolutely not. The argument given by the Government why this amendment is rejected states that your solution is more consistent in implementing the principles of taxation of relative economic power. You have referred to Article 91(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I will quote that view, which says: "The obligation to pay taxes and other taxes is general and is based on the economic power of the debtor." I repeat again, on the basis of which you claim that someone who owns more than ten acres was an ar, two or more, economically stronger, economically more powerful than the one who owns eight or nine acres, on what grounds is that claimed? It doesn't necessarily mean that one who owns more automatically and economically strong, because it's not only about the surface of the land, it's about its location and, above all, the value of that land. You're in a bad way, you're in a bad position to determine the economic power of a debtor. So it's not just the surface of the land, it's what's on that land, its location, and above all its value. Also, with this bill of law (I'm only going to do one sentence), you allowed local self-governments to write a tax hike of up to 60%. And how in Belgrade will that be in practice? It will look like this: all taxpayers will be the same. It will have the same payment obligation and those in the city centre, in central municipalities such as Vracar, Savoc, New Belgrade, for example, and Zemun, I can mention, and residents living in Mladenovac, Surcin, Obrenovac, etc. Well, are they economically the same? Is their economic power the same? I don't think so. As a result, the SRS considers this proposal to be extremely bad and that you will not get what you need, which is that the tax is paid on the basis of economic power, and thus will not be in accordance with Article 91(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52909	Two minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52910	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Nenad Popovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law which we have proposed to amend part of this text in Article 2 in order to simplify the text, i.e. a more precise definition of the provisions of this article. Namely, the classification of taxpayers known to this law divides them into taxpayers who keep business books and taxpayers who do not keep business books and in this article of the law are mentioned both. We have proposed to amend the text by applying the corresponding tax rates to all taxpayers, which simplifies the text or more precisely defines that provision of the law and the meaning remains the same, i.e. the essence of the proposed text does not change, so I think this amendment should be accepted. When it comes to the property tax law, I have to note that the government has very skillfully passed on to local self-governments and cities to implement this unpopular measure, namely one of the hot potatoes in their hands. I would like to remind you that for the last three years, since the constitution of this government, local self-government in Serbia has been denied by nearly 40 billion dinars of transfer funds, which severely violates the Law on the financing of local self-government. This year it has been increased, but it has not reached the 2008 amount, and this year it is below the amount prescribed in the Law on the financing of local self-government. In this way, the government has transferred the burden of the economic crisis, but also its wrong economic policies and inadequate, late economic measures to local self-government. This led to some major development infrastructure projects being stopped in many municipalities, a large number of cities in Serbia being overly credited, and some municipalities cannot finance the most important functions they are entrusted with and are to perform. It is interesting that during the reduction of transfer funds to towns and municipalities in Serbia, while reducing the funding of some NIP development infrastructure projects, from the Ministry of Infrastructure, from some other ministries and other state institutions, the government has repeatedly reiterated that local self-governments have their own original incomes, where property tax is also included, and that they should increase those taxes to replace the missing funds that have been cut off by government decisions, i.e. from Serbia's budget. I really don't know if you're aware of the situation Serbia is in, and I don't know if you can understand that neither citizens nor businesses can withstand new commitments. Citizens, who are impoverished, who, during the government's rule, have dropped the standard drastically, and have fallen into business, which expects tax relief and release rather than new charges, are unable to pay property tax, which will be increased by 60% in 2011, and for 2012, there is no such restriction, so who knows how much it will be then. I am sure that a large number of local self-governments will prescribe a lower rate than the maximum allowable tax on property, because, unlike you, people at the place are more realistic about the situation in which Serbia is located. Acceptance or non-acceptance of this amendment will essentially change nothing. What you could do, and what would be good, is to discuss the elections and to have Serbia get a new government after these elections, which will lead a completely different economic policy, in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52911	Two minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52912	Mrs. Comic, Mr. Djelic, this amendment submitted by Radeta's colleague is very important because it stems from obligations that local self-government units have under law and constitution. Namely, the Law on Local Self-Government, Article 5, defines what are the basic incomes of the local self-government unit. You all know very well whether or not you are a board member in the cities you live in, in local congregations, that property tax is the only basic income, besides local utility taxis, which units local self-government have. When this law was on the agenda, which has caused real disfavor among citizens for taxing at a progressive rate, because of the fact that in Kragujevac, experts from the Authority for the Property of our city have calculated, for an apartment of 50 squares, instead of the current 4,000-6,000 dinars, property tax, when people get a solution for 2011, there will be over 20,000... You have to admit that it's a big blow to every family, given the property situation, especially in the city where thirty thousand people don't work. But we'll see if it's that much, because you're calculating depreciation; you need to know that there are settlements that were built in the 1930s, so between the two world wars, but the largest number of buildings was built, at least in the city where I live, and a housing block here in New Belgrade, in the 1970s. Why did Mrs. Radeta write an amendment that units of local self-government must have the obligation to determine, as it is written here, on this scale, the tax rate for those legal persons who run business books and who don't lead? Here it is now given, that is point 1) of Article 1 on the rights to the property of a taxpayer who keeps a business book that rate is up to 0,40%, for those who do not lead to 0,30% and, on a tax basis, what is paid on behalf of the tax, what is that amount in dinars. The biggest problem, Mr. Djelic, is that local self-government, which, I repeat, is the only such basic income, according to how you wrote it, unless they determine the rate of tax, and the law has now prescribed to them how much it is, apply the corresponding, as said in the amendment of this article, the highest rate. Please, what are the sanctions for them if they don't? Who's going to protect the citizens, say, in the city where I live, if he's taxing solutions instead of when it's normal, so they should arrive in March of the month, arriving in June, as was the case last year? On the other hand, Mr. Djelic, there is a problem that has been raised directly regarding you and your ministry since 2001. You know very well that the unconstitutional category of account is a tight interest on an unpaid tax of 0.02% a day. For what? Because it's cumulative interest and because it's much bigger for those who don't pay taxes than prescribed legal interest. And it is prescribed by law, even by the old law that continues to apply, on bond relations, where it is said exactly that the unpaid tax and any other obligation to the state of the citizen can have the highest interest rate to the height of the escort rate of the NBS on an annual basis. As far as I know, that rate isn't more than 25%, and you do the math now. A few days ago there was a theme in many media that the state was practically yelling at the citizens because of what was coming to them... That's what Mr Krasic was talking about, bringing some concrete examples here for a lady who has a hair salon, that she has much more interest, twice as much as her basic debt. Since you're here, just answer me... At that time, the Deputy Prime Minister of Serbia, not to mention the name, since the gentleman is no longer alive, replied that the right Serbian Radical Party is the one asking the question and that it cannot tighten interest to be greater. Now answer me – why did you not accept, on behalf of the Government, the amendment of Mrs Radete, which she clearly requested, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government and this Law, that units of local self-government must determine for all taxpayers, and not that, if they do not, they determine some of the highest rates? On the other hand, the problem highlighted by fellow MPs from other cities is the realisation of the total property tax. It's colorful from town to town. It is true in the forest administrative district, it is not the same in Raca, Kragujevac, Arangelovac, etc. The town of Kragujevac, which I repeat is the basic income, has projected that this year's property tax, total of natural and legal persons, will account for 855,000 dinars in the city's budget. The moment we adopted the budget in the City of Kragujevac Assembly, she appeared after a spokeswoman who was the head of the administration and said it was unrealistic, and later one of the closest associates of Mr. Stevanović, Mayor of Kragujevac, and here is why – precisely because of the problems mentioned here. We have several thousand legal entities, so those who are treated in this particular article, which have not been listed so far, have not paid property tax. It's the same case in Surdulica, Mladenova, etc. How can you guarantee now that this law will be implemented by the end of the year when such a situation is on the ground? We are going back to what our authorised representative, Mr Krasic, just said. That's because, except in cities where you have absolute authority or where you have an interest, or like these Dinkics who push this project of united regions, you just started with some of your stories, with the delusion of citizens by some projects, and it's not about you that the basic life of a man, whether he has electricity, whether he has water, what the sewerage is. I was just astounded when I heard (imagine what someone would say in the Shop or in the Black Trava), when counterpart Avramovic said there was no problem of sewage and other municipal issues of the Sava Venac municipality, the retail heart of Belgrade. So, Mr. Djelic, I'm asking you to answer the question of how will you sanction local self-government? How could you, not accepting the amendment of your colleague, Radeta, to tell them in this way that they are applying the highest? And, explain to the citizens, since you're here, about this tight interest, because it's an unconstitutional category and citizens are being robbed.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52913	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52914	This is the extension of the amendment submitted to article 2 by the Prophet Radet. The word “responsible” is replaced by “determined”. What's it really about? And as for the Law on the financing of local self-government and, in general, when something is transferred from the Republic to a unit of local self-government, the rule is to set limits, or if it is a tax, it is determined in percentages: either it goes with a minimum or it goes with a maximum or it is said from – to. The word “responsible” means nothing, whether or not it suits someone. The point is to use legal terminology – up to or up to the percentage established. So local self-government needs to determine that tax rate to that number, to the percentage prescribed by this law. Officially, the law also lays down a formal local self-government, when it determines, that it would respect what the National Assembly has prescribed by law. But I think it's not just a game of words, it's something much bigger and more significant. I remind all MPs who are in the National Assembly Hall, I remind Mr Djelic that the last amendment to this law was made on 30 December 2010 and that this new bill entered the procedure on 21 February 2011; 52 days it took you to realize that you made some mistakes, you caught some for the heart. Do you know who? I don't want to talk, I'll get a warning, and then there's a party to be made. Then, according to the express procedure, a new Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act came. It's a similar situation with the next agenda. We have warned you in December of the month, and I will not repeat our discussion since December, but that is the problem; when a good amendment is given, when it is proposed what should be done, when attention is drawn to what problems will be... Then we also warned you what problems would be at the local self-government unit. You didn't believe it, you already applied the tried democratic principle, number 126. We've been talking to 126 for years. Behind 126 are views, the interests of Brussels, Washington, because you say – Europe has no alternative. You forgot that Serbia has no alternative, life in Serbia has no alternative. No, Brussels has no alternative. You see, where lucky for this Putin to stay for five or six days, there would have been some sort of mental order in this country, like that day, how everything was nice and neat in Belgrade. You remember, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic? Nor did anyone object, anything that was parked sucks, "Gazala" passable, no traffic, everything ideal. The next day, everyone forgot the EU and NATO Pact. I praised you the next day, remember? All representatives of the government who were in the Assembly were not allowed, such as the EU, no way, NATO, no way. I see, the intensive delegations are coming now. I suggest a new stage of development of the international co-operation of the Republic of Serbia – to propose to the United Nations that the UN headquarters move to the Great War Island, as delegations come here more than in New York. A little bit, so something's wrong, you race in Brussels at your mom and dad's to say – they radicals put on shirts so they attack us again and so on. This is to break the monotony a little bit. Do you know how warm I am around my heart when Djelic puts his head down and Hope puts his head down? It's a capitulation, Djelic, after 11 years. No wonder 70% of citizens will not hear of the EU and NATO pact. Do you know about this information? To let you know, the latest research says it's going even worse. Don't write regulations that can be ambiguous.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52915	I'm going to ask you to return to the subject and present the exact information.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52916	It's accurate data.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52917	They're not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52918	I'm talking about what the difference between the term "responsible" and "determined". You're not following the thread, there's a thread. I can't miss that much, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52919	Please, as much as you say failed, that's why I ask you to use the exact data.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52920	Merit data, I measured. Okay, now it's the meter, but it doesn't matter. When the concept is such that the incomes from the property tax are paid in full to the units of local self-government – I must draw your attention to the fact that local self-government is not a state government – then you clearly prescribe the frameworks. This is according to the Constitution the original income of the Republic, but by law we pass it on to units of local self-government for a number of reasons: efficiency, and simplicity of payment and the need for the Republic to participate in financing the business of units of local self-government. Not to talk about what the Republic has passed on as entrusted jobs to local self-government units. In these transferred affairs local self-government has some attributes of a state body doing business and the procedure is completely different from the original competences of local self-government, but it's a very difficult topic for you, not to torture you, you're going to sweat, and you won't understand. When using the term, I draw your attention, "responsible", wrongly or in its own way, it has to be interpreted from the local self-government unit to the local self-government unit, and the Standing Conference of cities, which would be a little intervening, is hardly able to do anything. Just to remind you, there is a commission that needs to regulate some areas and some questions about funding local self-government by the Republic. The committee was headed by Mrs Diana Dragutinovic. However, there was no meeting of that committee. It is likely now that Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, as finance minister, will be headed by the commission again. That's where they're going to take their eyes out, those 150 municipalities, you know; they really have a problem, Mr. Djelic. I totally understand the government, she's been saying this for two years -- there were additional elections, the government has made a direct asphalt, arranged kindergartens for those choices; you've spent that money that belongs to you, but as a smart government, we haven't allowed you in local self-government to spend money, so that you steal, no, but we have. It's that Pytic system. Now, I'm distracting you, you're going to have a big problem with local self-government units again, because property taxes are supposed to pay some legal persons, right, Mr. Djelic? What do we do with the new bosses, the owners of the big estate? Mr. Djelic, how are you going to calm them down? I suggest that units of local self-government do not move the tax rate and the tax in relation to 2010 for natural persons and that all those who have come to large capital, property, immovable property and those loved ones apply a maximum rate established, Mr Djelic, by this draft law. It's not appropriate, because it can depend on the tycoon, as you say, an engine to develop a local self-government unit. It's these "development motors" that bought factories, so all the factories are closed and people are out of work. You know, when I slowly mess with these laws, so when we see why in 50 days the European law changes again by a new European law, it all comes to the surface. You have no idea how glad I am to see that you've all bowed your head and looked at the heroic parts of your body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52921	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52922	Madam Chairman, Mr. Vice President, you have finally now realized that one law that you have put in the procedure will cause a great deal of trouble. Today, I expected that some amendments that are fully justified would be accepted and that you would understand the problem that has arisen in Serbia, however, I see that none of it has anything to do with it. A few minutes ago, I listened to Natasha Jovanovic's discussion. He's absolutely right, you can't have enormously large interest on unpaid property taxes that no one can control, that come out of the law framework. So he can work, literally, whoever he wants. Then, the estimate of individual zones by cities, which is how taxed, etc., is left to local authorities. You want to make a big problem in Serbia with this move. The municipalities where you are in power from the ruling coalition support, help them, give them everything they need to promote their officials there. However, in municipalities where the opposition is in power, you have now made it possible to raise the property tax 60%. You simply want to drag these people into the game, you don't settle your budget commitments to the municipalities, which you owe the law, let them rob their citizens, kidnap them and hate their electoral bodies and their citizens. So this isn't right at all. So I'm very surprised that none of the amendments that were proposed have been accepted. You are now taxing individuals, citizens of Serbia, etc. And who gives you the right not to tax some strangers at all? "Fiat" in Kragujevac can do whatever he wants. It's a private company. Who gave you the right? You say VAT has to be respected by everyone in the state. Why doesn't the law on property obligations or other obligations have to respect any of the foreigners, which are private firms that you put millions in your pockets? Mr. Djelic, I just want to practically explain one case to you, how it's done with us. Although it's a big crisis and we have a big problem because many business facilities are empty, there's no work, now you've deepened people with an extra property tax and they literally don't know what they're going to do. So now these obligations are going to eat the substance, eat the particular capital that exists, because the value of the property has fallen tremendously. Objects are empty. Here, go through Belgrade, two-thirds of the facilities are completely empty, they're being betrayed. This law stimulates the work on black, that apartments are rented, that all the rents are black, because then there is no obligation, and whoever works fairly, settles all obligations and regularly pays the most affected. Now, I'm going to explain one example to you: if I issue an object to some company, when I get paid rent, 18% is paid, I pay 18%, and I raise the difference, I go to buy something, building material, say, they charge me 18% again on the same money. Mr. Djelic, that's 36%. Everywhere in the world, if you once pay one figure 18% of VAT, you are further released from all obligations on that basis. We pay 18% again, that's 36%, so you have income tax, then property tax, so when you add it all together, Mr. Djelic, you rob a citizen who regularly issues something by contract and works most regularly; he pays you total, state and local government, 52%, and he remains 48%. Now, you explain to me how it's possible for VAT to be paid twice. I can give you as many examples as you want. That's why people shut down companies, shut down buildings, everything closes down, everything stops, because obligations can't be fulfilled. It's an extremely big robbery, used to charge the budget. In mass, revenues are significantly lower than they should be, and you are raising, of course, prices and still giving you the authority to make them grow to 60%, which is impossible, etc. Take the physical faces, as far as these laws are concerned. Physical persons pay the real value of the price of their facility, both business space and their property. You've introduced, for example, companies that are being privatized... One sugar cane, which has thousands of squares of business space, thousands of hectares of land, etc., through depreciation pays less than someone who has a new apartment, for example, and who will have certain obligations etc. So, there's no such amortization in physical faces, especially in objects that are hundreds of years old, but the obligations, according to the square in that zone, are so much and so much. The renter will have to pay the property tax, etc. And the one who doesn't rent, who uses for his own needs, as a physical person, will have extremely large payments. How's that gonna hold? How do you survive after all these gatherings? You saw the other day, the courts became up-to-date, selling apartments to collect electricity and certain obligations, but only in certain environments, and in certain environments they don't react at all if they don't pay for something like that. How much Mr. Miskovic's company owed so that no solution has become enforceable and chargeable, none of which is chargeable, and you're going to give a martyr who has two children, a single father, out of booze a solution, sell an apartment for example, and show in all the media that it's finished, done and simply throw him out on the street. It's according to European standards. I'm sure that's what Mr. Phil taught you. He's been visiting a lot these days, and that's how you apply it. Some of your businessmen... You can't charge anything. Take court fees; you have to pay when you sue, but no solution can be charged, you as a citizen, because everyone says – we cannot carry out the execution. How can you not conduct an execution against someone who owns property? They're all without the ability to execute, and it's extremely difficult today. Today, whoever slanders you can do whatever he wants, write whatever he wants, because you give it, your government dictates. I know politicians who control the media completely and dictate an act against their political opponents. You sue them, you get slow and you can never charge them. That's why you're giving up the dispute, because you have to pay lawyers, taxes and everything else, regularly, as a citizen, and you can't charge for it, because those big ones who can say anything don't have a good chance of charging from them. Therefore, what you are doing is not correct and it will lead you to extremely great problems. I repeat, you cannot allow this kind of robbery that's taking place today, just to fill the budget at all costs and make this government last another month. Please, how can you now enter certain suspicious jobs, risky jobs, illegal jobs, just to fill the budget? Explain to me how it's possible for you to pay twice the VAT on the same money, and regularly. Look, there's no way you can avoid paying twice the VAT. The MPs here suggest that the interest rates on the property tax must be brought into order through the amendment and that the law is respected, and you abuse it and allow total anarchy; someone can literally do whatever they want, charge you whatever they want, whenever they want. It's just that you've allowed total lawlessness to do whatever anyone wants. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52923	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52924	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djelic, you're a promoter of sustainable development in Serbia, right? You're printing those expensive publications, and you're sharing them with us. Accordingly, I'm going to ask you what's in our tax system that has a characteristic of sustainable or consistent? You are a man who has been in the financial sphere of Serbia for almost eleven years. So, since you came to Serbia, you've been around money, about finance. Today I ask you, how long since your arrival to this day have you participated in an improvement in the payment of property taxes in Serbia? Here, I'm asking you, after ten or eleven years in Serbia, is this supposed to be an example of a consistent property tax collection policy? Mr Krasic said just now, 50 days ago you were changing the law, here you are changing it again today, and you are doing it because in all changes to the tax laws and in particular the property tax law you are installing the terrestrial political interests of the authorities or individuals in power. That's what my colleague Milan Avramovic was talking about. Tax policy can't and can't be run like that. A country that wants to have sustainable development must have sustainable finances, and sustainable finance provides a sustainable tax system. What you call the tax system is more than ridiculous. In this country today, continuity has the sole senselessness. This is the continuity of the senselessness that you promoted at the first point of this session, so someone who illegally built in an extra zone can't be free of taxes, or compensation for the use of building land, and whoever built it two kilometers away can also be freed. Here you now get continuity – who has up to ten acres does not have to pay, and who has over ten acres has to pay. Our question for you is, why don't you introduce this principle into, say, VAT? Then say – who has a salary of up to 20,000 dinars does not have to pay VAT, and who has a salary of over 20,000 dinars must pay VAT. But that doesn't suit you politically, that's not your political interest. The VAT is the income of the republican budget, you spend that money, and the property tax is the original income of local self-government, so not only do we not give them clear rules and a course of how to rule in exploiting their income and rights, but we let them run down the water, do what they want and do what they want, as they estimate. How did you write here? Let them determine and apply the most appropriate rates. How did local self-government show us and manage to apply this tax and make income through this tax? She managed and acted exactly as she did and how she behaves in the legalization process, so instead of identifying something as good and useful, she wants to use it at her own expense or apply the laws to her own damage. Tell me, what kind of local self-government is it going to be, not the lowest, but the average rate that you're predicting by law to apply? Well, none of them will. Everybody's gonna put the maximum prices on. You know why? Because you, contrary to the law that you have proposed, have denied them a certain amount of the transfer funds in this assembly. Since you took that income for yourself, because your budget is hollow and you patch up who knows what kind of public spending, then you told them – here's your chance, here's your income, that's your property taxes, so you get along, raise up to 60% and make your income for yourself. That's not how it works. You can't as a government not worry about the interests and revenues of local self-government. It is not the government and the state of Serbia, Nemina 11 and Belgrade, but Serbia and that municipality are the farthest in the south, and that municipality is the farthest in the north, both in the east and in the west. Without stable revenues in those municipalities, there is no peace in Belgrade either. I've told you very well, there's nothing but thoughtlessness here. Only in this country can it happen to you to pay a tax or disposal fee and thousands of hectares in Vojvodina are under water today. Turn out the wrong bill, people pay that fee, and then after three days inform them – you have paid money in the wrong account, you pay it again, and we will pay this back to you when we remember. Now someone needs to take your serious intentions, take care of the citizens, so you've given them the opportunity not to pay the house tax. Will this law and these changes and additions provide more stable income based on property tax? They won't, Mr. Minister, because you destroyed local self-government. There's no one there to collect income. They won't, Mr. Minister, because you haven't been able to write down the property for ten years. No, Mr. Minister, because you have an example of a man living for three years in a house he built in accordance with the law, getting permission for it, paying for all the necessary papers, and three years he doesn't have a solution for the property tax. What I'm saying is not in his interest, but it speaks of the nature and profile of the government, the responsibility of the state, as you are representing the state at both local and state level, ready to take care of yourself and to protect general and public interest. Fifty per cent, on average, of property taxes are charged by legal persons on an annual basis. Who pays the property tax? The factories you destroyed? Those who owe workers social, health insurance, who owe them wages and everything? The ones who owe for the taxes, the ones who have to pay the company and everything? They can't pay. On average, 60-70% of natural persons on an annual level are at peace with their obligations, and from that percentage that is the state in ten years, since you came to power, have managed to register. In the meantime, who knows how many objects have failed. And you talk about the state, the tax system, the state progresses, all flowers, European standards... We just needed the one here yesterday, to give lectures, ten points, what else do you have to do to be a part of the European Union? A part of the European Union, in which ten years cannot be conducted legalisation. Therefore, Mr Djelic, what you have brought before us today is really funny and it is very untasteful to defend some sense of security or responsibility towards citizens and your idea and ambition to protect the interest of citizens, i.e. to take care of the economic strength of certain citizens in Serbia. That's more than funny. These changes and additions include your ad hoc political needs due to the fact that you do not finance adequate local self-government, that you do not have adequate income, on the one hand, or that the interests of individuals in power may be incorporated, as counterpart Milan Avramovic said earlier. The state doesn't run like this. You're for the state of shame and you need to leave the position you're in as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52925	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52926	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I will briefly continue the story I started, which my colleagues later explained by further argument. Mrs. Pop Lazic, as well as her colleague Radeta, wanted the units of local self-government to be bound by this amendment, since, as Mr. Krasic said, this term does not mean anything here, but it is necessary to determine what is the level of the tax rate for persons who run and do not keep business books. Mr. Djelic, I'm trying to conduct some interactive communication with you, but you're obviously out of shape today, I don't know what it is, probably because of the fact that yesterday your file went through the way it did in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you had come, you would have seen a truly impressive picture: we, with our president's T-shirts, Vojislav Seselj and a message from the people "Serbia wants Seselj". But, as Mr Krasic said earlier, given these surveys, since you are a man for European integration, who are authentic and who has a Serbian Radical Party, and no one can dispute, that 70% of the citizens are against NATO and the EU, let's just go back to the part that he put in those seven points yesterday, which is crime and corruption and how to get out of it. When we talk about these business books and people who are supposed to record it, that they charge a tax on property, I will apostrophe the case of Miroslav Miskovic, since he started building the Delta Park in Kragujevac last year. A large hypermarket "Tempo" has been built and further construction is planned. Mr. Djelic, tell me, can you, as a Serbian government man, be here in front of MPs, because the public reads different data, and some prominent business weeklys in the country, to tell us how much Mr. Miskovic owes to the state on the basis of taxes? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Many. You're right, Mr. Krassic. How many hundred million, billions of dinars? You must certainly know, given the fact that WikiLeaks had recently announced the fact that in 2007, a dispatch arrived in Washington that he was banned from entering the country because of the fact that the initial accumulation of capital had been acquired by robbing citizens, he was not paying the state anything. This triggered a story among some economic analysts in the country, in recent days, about whether he could earn so much, later enormously, wealth by earning his first million. We don't know what kind of numbers it is and how much it doesn't pay its citizens; we know that it doesn't pay what happens to the workers, and every day we hear, whatever market we go into, from those poor people and women who work behind the registers, that they don't have contributions to pensions, who knows how long he's been avoiding it, but everyone says, your fellow economists, Mr. Djelic, that he couldn't do anything further, this kind of empire to make and become such a tycoon, that it wasn't you and the authorities from 2000 to today. Therefore, I ask you to answer a specific question, because I live in the area of the town of Kragujevac and part of the property tax would have to be on the basis of this new facility – and that is the question of whether his 2011 tax will arrive – Miskovic to pay in Kragujevac and in every city where he built something. Do you have any information as to how much his total debt to the state is, and will he later reprogramme a debt to the economy, such as that project Jelasic and Dinkic a few years ago when they went to Vienna, and to seek guarantees from the Assembly, to pay for citizens, both this poor and jobless? Or are you going to do something and activate mechanisms that all of you, in the right sense of words, institutional criminals are brought to justice and that they are paying the state, this poor, and the needy citizens what they owe them and that money goes into the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52927	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and my behalf a group of citizens who are following a portion of today's session from the Grand Hall gallery of the House of the National Assembly. Present are: Marko Djokić, Ivana Mandić, Milan Bošnjaković, Andrijana Simeunović, Bogdan Marjanović, Tanja Drendarevic, Alexa Petkovic, Sandra Radojčić, Dragan Petronijevic, Ivan Ristović, Ana Petrovic, Marija Đuričić, Đorđe Forst, Sofia Rebrenović, Marija Bogicevic, Aleksandra Ćorić, Valentina Gashi, Natasa Poledica, Matija Ljubić, David Marić, Tijana Erić, Tijana Matijević, Darko Vuksanovic, Ivan Janković, Ranko Stanković and Dušica Polić. Let's give them a round of applause. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh, who wants a word. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52928	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, here is a classic example of political volunteerism organised by the current government. With this amendment, as well as other amendments, we have pointed to the anti-constitutional and illegal adoption and proposed legislation. This is a classic example of how to break the Constitution. What are the provisions of this law contrary to the Constitution? The Constitution guarantees equality and equality before the law, guarantees and obliges all citizens to pay taxes, fees and other taxes towards economic, or financial power. You have foreseen this bill that local self-government can change already, as you say, the projected rates of property tax. If local self-government can change those rates, then the fees that are allocated, or taxes on this basis, will be different in certain municipalities. Some municipalities will be freed, others will have a certain rate, others higher, smaller, etc. This will violate the constitutional principle of equality and equality and the obligation for citizens to be equal in terms of equating tax obligations. No matter what we point to, you're still pushing counter-constitutional action, and it's not just about this law, it's about other situations. Mr. Djelic, make a note of that. You've got the amendment. We've pointed out that. Take care. A citizen in Belgrade will pay for the same estate of 10,000, the one in Zagućica will pay 20,000, the one in Nis will pay 5,000, etc. The constitution says – for the same value, the same tax. But what to do, that's how you do it. It is important to point out, when you took over the government in 2008, a complete shift was promised, a comprehensive reform in the area of the tax, fiscal system. You said, and in particular, Minister Diana Dragutinovic pointed out -- here's a chance to help, to equalize citizens in rights, obligations. As she said, the current tax system is not fair because it protects the rich; it is our desire to change the tax system. In that sense, we will form certain innovative legal projections, make a comprehensive tax reform, cut the income tax, progressive tax taxation, etc. What's been done of all that? Nothing. Has the tax system been changed? It's not. Has a comprehensive reform of the tax system been implemented? It's not. Is our tax system sustainable? It's not sustainable. Citizens cannot settle obligations as imposed by the current government. Is the IRS fair? He's not just because he protects the rich. You've announced progressive taxation, and this law goes at exactly the opposite tax rates. The Serbian Radical Party has for years indicated that the existing tax system is unsustainable. He's regressive, unfair, he's primarily complex and overpriced. Why is it complicated? Because today citizens and businesses pay 65 types of taxes, contributions, fees, taxis, excise taxes, etc. It's unsustainable. Almost as many combinations as we have tax and other donations can be inserted by computer systems. It's unsustainable. Here, in 2010 alone, 17 new donations were introduced. It is a gift from this government to citizens and businesses, a troubled economy that faces indifference problems. What did you announce next? You have announced a long-term and medium-term strategy in the area of income, etc. Is she made? It's not. When will it be made, Mr. Djelic? Those are promises. Here, another six months of government, eight months, a year, etc. What's tragic? It is tragic that you, by this legal proposal, allow local self-government to receive certain funds. That's good. But can this local self-government with an existing structure of workers... Two years ago, you introduced a tax administration into local self-government. Is local self-government educated? Are these people educated? Are they professional? Do they have a sufficient level of documents, facts, data to introduce a tax like this? They don't. Two years ago, when you introduced and enabled them, you didn't allow them, and the local self-government couldn't... Why couldn't she? Because you don't settle what's provided for by the Law on the financing of local self-government. Since 2008, in conclusion with this budget, you have denied the local self-government of 66 billion dinars, 650,000 euros. With 650,000 euros spent through the Republika Srpska budget, each local self-government could have had about four million euros. With fourm euros each local self-government could create one pool, two schools, four kindergartens, etc. Citizens of Serbia, just so you know, that's how much this country has stolen from you, taken from you. Mr. Djelic, this is stealing. The law on the financing of local self-government provides that 1.7% of GDP must be directed towards local self-government. Sixty-six billion for these four years, or four of the budgets you've proposed, have been kidnapped by local self-government. How can this local self-government count on funds when they, when planning next year's budget, count what the law provides? You deny them one-third, then deny them 40%; here, now, according to the 2011 budget, 21 billion. Now you see what position you're in bringing local self-government: budget preparations, well-planning, planning where they're going to invest, and in what respects they plan to allocate funds to, and you deny them. Then what's left of local self-government? Either to be in charge or to rebalance the budget. Now I'll tell you what local self-government does. Those in charge, I will now tell you what it is: in 2007, local self-government was in charge of 27,5 billion dinars. In 2008, given that you denied them these commitments, short-term and long-term, increased to 31 billion, 2009 to 41 billion, 2010 over 50 billion, and in 2011, it is likely to grow to 60, 70, 80 billion, not knowing how much. What happens to those municipalities that don't go into debt? There's a budget deficit growing. The deficit of local self-government in 2008 was 15 billion, next year 22 billion, 31 billion and this year most likely 45 billion, representing one third of the total income, etc. If we add this borrowing to this, well, they don't have a budget. What's in charge, what's a deficit, etc. They don't have the funds. You see, then, as generous to them, here is the opportunity for you, so take a step now through these property taxes. What step? There's no stepping out here. There's no income here. Serbian citizens can't pay, they can't pay. From colleague Jovanovic, we heard that citizens in Kragujevac will pay 20,000 for apartments of 50 square meters. It's impossible. It is impossible to pull out of the pocket of the average citizen Kragujevac, who is normally unemployed, twenty thousand a year, impossible. It's impossible in other cities. What's possible, what aren't you doing? It's possible to tax the richest, tax the tycoons. When President Tadic announced the taxation of offshore companies, he failed to deal with the problem and he doesn't know, because the ex-minister of finance, at the time the finance minister, Diana Dragutinovic said -- we don't have the capacity to tax offshore companies, we don't have the capacity. There are 500,000 people in the state administration who are financed from the budget, but we can't find a dozen people who will deal with these issues, to tax what we can tax. Now I'm going to read you an interview that followed six months, eight months after President Tadic's magnificent statement, which he says, because he suffered a failure, what he said was not done. As a rule, every president when he says something, it needs to be done. He says so - by talking to rich people I told them that it is very difficult to enter the origin of their capital, but that there is a way that they, before the state examines it, justify that capital by leaving something to their people. Listen to this - justify that capital. Well, it's not in front of the president, it's in front of the tax authorities. "You should leave it to your people." There is nothing to leave to his people, but in the ordinary tax procedure it is determined and charged immediately. We have now heard of Miskovic – the same situation, he should leave it to the people. In a normal tax procedure, tax charges are made; not to be in debt, not to block etc. Look at how it's done. The president goes on to say -- Obama has it completely different, when he invites everyone to run for funding. There's no giving here, they've transferred their business to whatever exotic islands and they're running traffic there, not here. You see how this government works. You see, through this example, an example of this law, we have shown what political volunteerism is ruling in Serbia, which is the arbitraryness of the current government; it promises one thing and it does not execute; it points to one thing and it does it completely different. The absence of justice and justice in the collection of certain obligations is seen and how, in the end, unserious it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52929	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 7th amendment together. Mr. Arsen Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52930	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Nenad Popovic and I, on behalf of the DSS Group, have submitted an amendment to Article 7, which suggested adding a sentence that reads: "The decision of the local self-government assembly shall not be made for less than ten years, and its changes before that will apply only to taxpayers who, after their adoption, have acquired certain property rights, unless further reduction of tax rates is made." I believe that by accepting this amendment, the text of the proposed law would certainly be improved, because the proposed text of the unit of local self-government does not have any time-limit on which decisions are made. We suggested that that deadline should not be shorter than ten years, unless there was an additional reduction in tax rates. It is known that one of the most significant features of a good decision or good law is its stability, which contributes to a decision on investments, which are mostly long-term in terms of property rights. So, the long-term long-term long-term tax policy is very important in each area, so that both legal and natural persons can make a valid decision on investment. I think that this would create a more positive and favourable environment for investors who would feel further stability and security there. So I urge you to reconsider this amendment and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52931	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Lapcevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52932	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, has been proposed to add Article 2 to Article 7, which reads: "The local self-government unit assembly can, by its decision, reduce property tax rates only linearly, i.e. at the same percentage for all taxpayers". The fact that tax bonds which have certain property rights in different units of local self-government at different rates are accounted for may be relevant for making decisions on the location of investments in certain types of assets. However, changes in tax rates based on decisions by units of local self-government which would be non-linear may lead to disproportionate burdens for taxpayers entitled to property of different values, which may have unpredictable consequences. When the legislator has already decided to make differences in rates in a certain proportion, it is necessary to ensure the preservation and proportion of the law after the decisions of the units of local self-government to reduce rates. In this regard, we believe that there is no need for local self-government to be left to the free will to decide on how to reduce tax rates, i.e. those in certain cases may be non-linear, as there could also be certain abuses in reducing these tax rates, i.e. greater burdens on individual categories, and smaller ones, in accordance with current or daily political interests. It's about the amendment. I would like to say a little more now about the amendments to the law, in the capacity of an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. So, the whole essence of this amendment to the law is, in fact, the ironing of damage that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done to units of local self-government and, in some ways, to meet all municipalities and cities in Serbia, given that over two years or three years ago, since this Government of the Republic of Serbia has been functioning, to a significant extent, all cities and municipalities in Serbia, and especially those who are the poorest, suffered huge damages in terms of reduced transfers to local self-government. I would just like to remind you that during 2010, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities on several occasions addressed the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister, the Finance Minister, the Minister of Local Self-Government, with the desire and goal of focusing on the unequal position of local self-government and on the great damage suffered by local self-government based on the reduction of transfers from the level of the Republic. The transfer to local self-government was defined by law, the Law on Local Self-Government, i.e. on the financing of local self-government, to 1.7% of GDP, which was largely respected from 2000 to 2000, to a lesser or greater extent, whether it was 1.7 or slightly less than that, but that percentage, 1.7% of GDP, was respected, and in all budgets from 2000 to 2009 provided for amounts of transfers to local self-government precisely in that amount or approximately that amount. There was a drastic difference in funding and a deviation from this law and a projected, binding percentage in the Republic of Serbia's budget in 2009, where 40.8 billion dinars were scheduled to be allocated to local self-government units, down to 25.6 or 40%, which no other sector, any public institution covered by budget financing, was affected as local self-government. At that time, the budget rebalanced in April 2009, that the global economic crisis, despite our superman president, who said it was a chance for Serbia, hit Serbia and therefore all budget users must bear the burden of reduced revenues in the RS budget, thus reducing transfers to local self-government from 40.5 billion to 25.6 billion, which is more than 15 billion dinars, as I have already said. Local self-governments then reluctantly accepted this in advance, knowing that reduced transfers would lead to significant disturbances in the functioning of local self-government, especially in those areas that are the primary authorities of local self-government, which is a concern for local infrastructure, kindergartens, schools, funding of pre-school institutions, cultural institutions, which has proved true in these two years since these transfers have been significantly reduced. It is interesting to say that, even though local self-governments then accepted such an explanation, no other area, no other institution has reduced budget transfers but local self-government. What did the Government of the Republic of Serbia actually do? In 2008-2011 revenues and expenditures in the budget, these figures have been constantly increasing – from 640 billion to estimated revenues for 2011 from 820 billion. That's the difference between over 150 billion dinars. On the other hand, the downsizing of the transfers for these three years was of 40 billion, as it was in 2009, and 32 billion are scheduled for 2011. On the one hand, you have an increase in the budget of the Republic of Serbia by more than 150,000 dinars, and on the other hand a reduction in local self-government by more than ten billion dinars or about 30%, which is absolute absurd. It turns out that only the local self-government in the Republic of Serbia should bear the burden of the crisis, they were the only ones who had reduced transfers and funding from the republican budget, as if only local self-government had hit the crisis, and the Serbian government had no need to cut its own costs in order to be solidarity with all institutions. On the contrary, the Government of the Republic of Serbia in no way, by any step or gesture, even symbolic, has done nothing to reduce its own costs and expenditures, no reduction of the ministry, not counting on this now, pro-forms of the reconstructed government, or the reduction of the budget of individual ministries, cabinets, state secretaries, more than hundreds of agencies and constant waste, invariably, budget funds, even in those ministries that are invented and absolutely unnecessary. When I say that, I believe that the Ministry of NIP, which is now being attached through this reconstructed government as a portfolio to the Ministry of Economy, is an absolutely imaginary ministry. It made sense in 2005, 2006 and 2007 when we had extraordinary revenues in the budget based on the sale of large companies such as Telenor, Vojvodjanska Banka and similar, but it is absolutely pointless that there is a Ministry of NIP in 2009 or 2010, which is available by means, which is used to finance the construction of local infrastructures by municipalities, which is in the translated meaning of the basic ingenuity of local self-government. Local self-government, in addition to water supply, thermal energy and care for similar needs of citizens in certain municipalities, have the authority to care for local infrastructure, street construction, access roads to cities and municipalities, water, sewers. These basic powers (sports infrastructure, kindergarten financing, preschool and school education), the basic functions that municipalities and cities across Serbia were supposed to be dealing with suddenly took over by the NIP ministry. Why? Because it was necessary for local self-government's authority, and therefore the dependence of local self-government on the government itself, to increase. Instead of the municipalities having their own money, that money collected locally through various taxes, VAT and other taxes prescribed by the state, instead of pouring that money into local self-government to be used for its development, they went to the Republic of Serbia's budget and to a reduced amount of transfer back, and one part of the funds was kept in the budget to give to the imaginary NIP ministry, so that the ministry would build a local infrastructure. Tell me, where is the logic, you take away the basic powers of local self-government, you take away their resources, and you give it to the imaginary ministry to build streets, roads, plumbing, sewers? We've had countless examples of the minister going from one place to another, taking pictures, making statements that thanks to the generous support of the Ministry of Citizens, they're going to get a piece of the street or a piece of sewerage, something that's the basic ingenuity of a certain municipality. So absolutely one non-domestic relationship, the behavior that led local self-government into a subordinate position, that they had to go and complain and pray daily to solve some of the problems of life, because the money was not transferred from the republican level. Since the government has given up respecting the Law on the financing of local self-government and instead of the estimated 48,000,000, as much as 1.7% of GDP, has committed to local self-governments barely 32,000, it has come up with a "genial" plan to say through changes to the Tax Act – we cannot transfer, because we need a lot of money at the republican level to do our own political promotion, so we will give you the opportunity to raise tax rates on property and to charge in municipalities and thus replace the deficit that you have suffered under the law of funding local self-government. Indeed, one "genuine" plan designed for citizens to put on yet another way and again bring all the damage you produce on their backs. On the one hand, they must pay huge taxes that the state imposes, and on the other hand they will now have what the state has taken from local self-government to pay through additional taxes, increased property taxes. Thus, in any case, the total damage will be paid to the citizens because the government is totally arrogant, in no way wants to see the real situation in the economy, the reduced income, its own inability to reduce its own costs, but wants to keep all the powers for itself through these imaginary changes, all the privileges, and not to blame local self-governments, but to tell them that what they did not get from the state, which they belong to them, is being charged by the citizens. Citizens will pay as long as they can, until they're exhausted, no matter how much the state itself doesn't respect the laws it's passed. What better example than when the president of the state says - well, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, various ministries and state institutions owe millions of dinars to public utility companies for electricity, for heating, for city building land and similar things, you know, there are fewer revenues in the budget, the government can't pay for it. He understood when he heard the government wasn't paying those costs. Only no one understands citizens when they owe for the same needs, whether they have to pay and whether they can pay. So you have no worse example than the one that I have stated: on the one hand, the state does not pay its commitments either to the users of the budget or to public enterprises, and on the other hand it forces the citizens to do so; if they do not, then it cuts off their electricity, sues them, preys on property, etc. It's a completely wrong concept. Instead of dealing with strengthening domestic economy, reducing taxes, improving conditions for higher revenues in the budget, the government is trying to keep all its privileges in this way, putting local self-government between itself and citizens, which will further tax them and take their skin off their backs, and that municipalities must, on that basis, because they do not have enough money, or that they are in debt, as they are in charge, or that they enter huge deficits. For example, the city budget of the town of Nis in the last two years has been in debt for over tens of millions of euros for various infrastructure projects precisely because the republican government has abolished more than half a billion dinars of annual transfers to the town of Nis. The profile from the whole story will only draw banks, which will take huge interest on these loans, and the entire damage will be distributed to all citizens in Serbia. But we hope that this will not go on forever, and that, very quickly, through the extraordinary parliamentary elections, the citizens will give the last word and judge this incompetent authority and drive it back to history, where it belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52933	National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52934	Within the time of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS will say a few words about the amendments to the Property Tax Act itself, and I will take the opportunity to, now more freely, introduce the Deputy Prime Minister to some solutions that could have been taken not to come to this, or that could be taken to avoid this. Let me start with one basic question. For example, do you agree with me, Mr. Djelic, if I say that the change of a single sentence in the VAT law would lead to such huge changes in tax revenues and tax returns and that you are aware of it, but that you did not want to apply it? For example, according to the current VAT law, Article 28 has been defined that the invoice does not have to be paid, but that it, as such, only because it has been issued, can be used for the deduction of value added tax. This means that someone who owes huge amounts to their suppliers, who delivered the goods to him, invoiced, but who did not charge, and they themselves had to pay taxes to the state, who kept their goods unpaid and sold for cash, for example. in large shopping malls and invoices which he did not pay for the use of as a deductible item and ask the state to vomit. You know perfectly what money it is that the state is paying back to whoever didn't pay off suppliers by creating Gordi's node of indifference in the economy. It's visible and obvious, and it only changes one part of the VAT code. So there's no will to change anything. We're talking property tax. Did it really have to come to this and this kind of property tax change that we were able to see what the total property of a member of this society, this Serbian citizen, and not to tax all those who at one point received apartments under favourable conditions, at some point when the transition in this country began? Why didn't you think for a moment about treating the property as a cash asset or a financial asset held by citizens and businesses? Isn't that property? Obligations, actions, why isn't that taxed in an adequate way, so that one moment we can really end the mid-class shooting by taxing what's called the house where I live, an apartment that's not too big, where the average citizen of Serbia lives, and not the immovable assets and apartments that some betray and serve them for renting and earning? So, you haven't thought at all about these measures hitting the largest number of average Serbian citizens as housing owners and there are opportunities to change in the overall tax system small parts, sentences, which would bring huge inflows into the budget or protect the state from vomiting where someone didn't pay its supplier. No, you go the simplest way – let us tax those who cannot move out of their apartment. What else did you do? Instead of expanding the principal and reducing the interest rate on the tax and the property that is in cash (bonds, shares, you know perfectly that it is called assets), you have even asked to get out of the budget, which was at the bottom, almost empty in the deficit quite, secure and secure deposits at over 50,000 euros. Yes, it is positive, to secure savings, but do you, with total macroeconomic measures, separate the right savings, which was earned by working in a factory and production, from the enormous amounts of cash that was created at a time of transition in one way or another, when huge assets could be bought for the euro, which was once again not taxed in proportion to value, as it was allegedly imagined by this law? So, instead of taxing 10% of the richest taxpayers, 10% of those who have the largest assets, you're resorting to the system again to basically large numbers, large numbers of people, take a little bit of each to fill the budget. The way he spends, it's a special negative story that goes on your soul. In this number of 10% of the richest who are not progressively taxed by this law, it is likely that the largest number of individuals who have managed to make more than a million euros worth of such assets from your alleged equal taxation system. These people even manage to shift their personal consumption to buying through the company, and you know what mechanisms it does. So whoever has it is still able to go shopping and provide themselves with the most valuable, most luxurious goods and not be taxed because it translates into a company, because the tax system is arranged so that you tax in this country consumption. You don't stimulate any way of taxing income; that someone works, earns, and tax his income. It's a basic feller in your tax system. The basic feller, because you do not want to access the taxation of those who want to work and earn, but those who are the poorest, who respect the state the most because they want to pay their tax obligations in time or buy basic supplies, where, as you know, VAT is the highest, or excise is the highest. What I want to point out is that you have to re-orient the tax system from taxing individuals on corporate and family taxation. You can't force a family just verbally and say -- we're in favour of the state of Serbia having young generations, in whose knowledge, development, education we're going to invest. You have to create clear incentives to start a family, force the birth and even adopt children. These incentives must be tax-based policies so formalised that the total tax base enters the incomes of one family and that, not as this property tax law recently, you exempt that fourth family member, which is what you do negatively, destimulate the family, but to protect the family and to implement the social protection system through the tax system, which is the simplest, cheapest and most long-term positive effect. So what it is is a uniform rate, the widest base, taxing the rich at a progressive rate, VAT refund, only when someone who bought the goods and paid for it can have vomiting, you just see, but you don't want to look at it and put it into legal projects. The easiest way to send a tax administration is to punish a small businessman who did not recapitulate the slices from the fiscal register daily. So he reported every fiscal slice, he didn't steal anything from the state, but he didn't press that last click at the end of the day to do a summary checkup, so you can close his shop. Is it a fair state and one that encourages small businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, making money, what's full of mouths? I would especially like to point out, you who have passed the world a little experience from the world should bring here, which is tax credits, tax holidays, when every family has the opportunity to postpone their spending for Saturday and Sunday, for example, or some work day and some hours in the afternoon, and buy cheaper goods because it can and must delay its consumption due to poverty. We all have something like that on Saturdays and Sundays at the big megamarket, for example, where you have 10% decreases. Many of us delay our consumption, even the necessary supplies, for that weekend, because when trade chains reduce our margin to our citizens, it is cheaper to, as they say, earn by buying. No, we don't make money by buying, but we cover basic living needs by someone giving up their enormous profits in one percent. Why doesn't the state make such a tax incentive, so that the largest number of those who can delay their consumption for such tax holidays do so? You know perfectly well that it is the experience of America and many developed countries, and that it is really necessary and beyond necessary to do so here. I don't think you're aware of this. I am fully aware that you know and what world experience is, and what practice and what would make life easier for citizens, but you simply don't have time for it. The easiest thing to do is to transfer the tax burden to the highest number of citizens. The easiest thing to do is to transfer part of the commitment to local self-government, deny her income, ask her to introduce instruments, people and a way to collect property taxes. And from what will they do it, but by introducing new commitments to do what the central government imposes on them as a obligation? Another addition, because I will not be able to attend the work further because of my duties. You have not adopted the amendment of the Serbian Progressive Party regarding taxation of motor vehicles over three and a half tonnes, and now you are wasting time on citizens, congregation resources, the resources of Serbia's budget and we are discussing again what because of your stubbornness (no other term) you did not adopt at the time when we talked about the tax on use, carrying and holding goods. Is it more important for us to do something good for all citizens or to show ourselves who only proposes and does not want to pass any good law? Once again, and I will always repeat, for the citizens of Serbia it does not matter who suggested what, it is important that their life at a time of crisis be easier and cheaper. You don't do it with this proposal. And when you do, you do it by cheating on us advances, and it's just superficial and wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, allow me to inform you that a delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Parliament has just had a meeting with the Department of Interior delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany led by Dr. Ole Schroeder and that they are at the gallery of our hall now, with a delegation composed of Thomas Birman, Michael Conter, Henry Lodges and Sibil Pfaf. Please welcome them with applause and express our gratitude for being here. Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? [[Applause]] No, I don't. ) Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 7th amendment. Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group has submitted an amendment to the amendment to the Amendments and Supplements Act on property taxes, where we asked that this increase, which is essentially alternative, which is up to 60%, be replaced by a 20% figure. In objective terms, the most correct thing would have been if we had asked it to be 7-8%, something that was foreseen as a percentage of projected inflation, but, behold, we decided not to be so trendy, because we count that local self-government authorities will have in mind the property potential of citizens and will therefore be determined. I suppose they won't allow them to be such a brutal increase, but, carefully, what are we going to do, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, if some municipalities simply don't have another option but go with such an increase? What made you say that during a period of huge crisis, the global economic and our crisis here, something could increase to 60%? That's what worries, that's what psychologically affects the citizens of Serbia, whether it's what I said or not. Mr. Djelic, as a man of world experience, you always announce pompously, euphorically two years ago from a pay phone in that assembly, let's go to Europe... All of us, of course, want to go to Europe, but I'm asking you, are representatives of the IMF, who come to Serbia often, because we have some mutual arrangements based on different basics; when you mention some pay or pension increases of 2%, these are strong, day and night negotiations, some nuances are at stake... Do you, as a representative of the government, practically another executive officer in this country, tell those representatives of the International Monetary Fund – see, we will raise salaries or pensions 2%, but we will raise the property tax to 60%, we will raise the electricity price 15% by some day, we will raise the price of bread by 30%, we will raise all kinds of things? Mr. Djelic, do you think the citizens of Serbia have so much patience? I really admire them. Do you know that these days practically educators strike, with salaries that many in this Serbia do not have? Can anyone survive after these massive increases? Believe me, that's certainly impossible. You need to get down to some parts of Serbia that are practically on the verge of existence. You know how, when you start with this kind of psychological burden that it can bring to life, and in one municipality, you have so much ink for people who want to do normal business, to pay for their obligations to the state... I'll ask you one more thing: you're familiar with many opportunities in France, is this mandatory registration for cars paid in one France every year, is the company tax paid every year? When you bring some investors into Serbia, and I've had the chance to hear them, it's not clear to them at all what it means to pay for city building land; it's something that's a completely imaginary category. You'll say it's done by local self-government. But there's a government that's going to say that in one city, in one zone, they can't be archaics towards action; therefore, one dinar or one hairdresser has to have the same condition for about 20 squares, not that someone pays 300 dinars, and someone in a bar up to 2,000 dinars. That's not normal stuff. Mr Djelic, at the last appearance of the former Trade Minister, I presented information that about 40 major items in Serbia are more expensive than in Germany, that was also in the daily newspaper. Only one piece of information: 25 dinars are flour in Germany, translated into our dinars, and 40 dinars in Serbia. All of this points to the fact that by this kind of relationship you will practically force citizens of Serbia, which I am not propagating, just work, civil disobedience, because they will have nowhere to pay, they will have nowhere to leave something on the side of food, to survive, to educate children, to pay for expensive medicines.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52937	Time. Mr. Markicevic has time, and you have wasted your parliamentary group and time for the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markicevic. There are 11 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52938	Dear President, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, Mr. Minister, why am I reporting again? Because I think I've gone into one risk of assuming that you won't answer at all today, so I thought I was saying something if you answer, not as a replica, but as a well-intentioned proposal and conversation, so I'm going to take advantage of a part of this time. What kind of economic policy you run and logic, regardless of your reasoning that you, even with some advice from the Prime Minister, are still asking yourself, seems to me as though Kori Udovici guru is still an ideologist to you. I hope that all citizens of Serbia with disgust and fear remember her famous statements for those citizens who cannot pay for the electricity – sell the apartment and pay for the electricity. On April 1st, electricity will raise about 15%, however, as former Minister Skundric announced. Perhaps you will not adopt it, perhaps it has been replaced because it has announced a poor voice for the citizens of Serbia. I ask you as a man who has children, who is a family man. I have a lot of friends and neighbors who are in some happier times, maybe they were single-party, for years building houses where they live. Maybe they have 150 square meters, maybe they have 50 square meters more than they need, maybe it's a pain in the Serbs to make houses bigger than they need, but, Mr. Minister, 10, 15, 20, 30 years these people have never gone on vacation, they've never seen the sea, they've never been out of this country. They built these houses using company loans (the firm then didn't stand as bad as today) and with some cell phones and neighbor's help, and now they need to get a solution, with their humble pensions... Say, I know one couple, one has 14,000, the other has 17,000, 31,000 have and now they have to pay taxes. What are they gonna do? We can do it by morning, and I as an opposition MP and you as a minister... I believe you'll do very nicely, I already said you're eloquent, to explain it, but what will people do if they can't pay taxes? Selling a house? Is that an answer to the citizens of Serbia? These days we have one piece of information, Mr. Minister, that one so-called. Public service, and in fact your government service, which is called RTS, sued 280,000 Serbian citizens; with family members, it's a million and a half people who are sued, on one basis only. This means that the one who does not pay the obligations, and the obligation to pay the property tax that will be called upon to be called... Of course, whoever's looking for it, if it's a city, if it's a municipality, he's going to sue these citizens. Then for building land, and for unpaid electricity, and for unpaid water, and for unpaid credit wars, which may have been raised for food. We will be in a situation – if something you, the most responsible, we can only criticise, advise, and you can accept whether we are only talking oppositionly here or pressured by citizens, because citizens know well that opposition MPs have the same salary as MPs of the ruling coalition, we have an obligation to present that opinion to the citizens here – that out of the seven-eight million citizens of Serbia, five-six million citizens are saddened by various grounds. What an effective judiciary we have, we know that. Maybe the citizens will first. Let me ask you specifically. Recently, one, say the largest tycoon in this country sold one of its companies or company systems, seems to me, for 950,000 euros (why am I dragging you into it now? ) and 320,000,000 euros owed to suppliers, not to say to the smallest suppliers, peasants who handed something over. How come the state didn't remember to charge him $320 million, so you got what's left, buddy, after the sale? Why do I ask you that? You can say I'm not a trade minister. Because you, Mr. Minister, were at the opening of his facility, Delta City, although warned by some ministers that the facility was without a building permit. Citizens are interested in what your interest was in being here. Furthermore, we've recently had what I say a long time ago, that the money has enough but, as it was called in communist times, that social distribution is not fair, it's not just. Your former colleague, Diana Dragutinovic, who was about the first to "break up", and the first singer to set foot in a pot, not to mention getting fired in the government for a strike enlightened mentioning some four billion. For our country in this crisis, it's big money. What happened to that four billion? Or we're giving 654,000 in a crisis like this for peace operations. We should be in Libya right now, and there's something we're particularly interested in sending people to a peace operation. How much will this NATO summit cost you, Mr. Minister, in June? How many hungry mouths could Serbia feed, Serbian citizens, to feed on the rally? Finally, if I do not turn out to be a demagogue, tell me what is the benefit of Serbian citizens who cannot pay a tax on property, who will not be able to withstand the price of 50 dinar bread, who cannot pay electricity at this price, what will they personally benefit, one family in Serbia, have from the rally of NATO that will cost millions of euros? Next, Mr. Minister, since you seem to be holding that notebook proudly... And trust me to say this well-intentionedly, because my personal position and position of my party is not "Europe has no alternative", but it is that Serbia is a place in the European Union, that there we should go as quickly and much faster as this government does. But now we get later, Mr. Minister, it seems to me, if I remember correctly what Mrs. Milica Delevic, the director of the EU's Association Office, said the new 626 questions. So they're not happy. That's almost 15%, if it was 4,500, it's almost 15% new. They're not happy. Now, I'm particularly interested in one question, since I've asked this question here for years, Mr. Minister, and none of you from the government have been given an answer, since one of these questions applies to "Telecom", approximately, folksly speaking, what is being done, how much is being sold, could you, in the name of Milice Delevic, as you know her, and she was involved, or part of the company, or some percentage of the actions she had in that company, in the business with Telecom... Does Mr. Stefan Phil know that, and did the EU, the European Commission, think about that? And some of your colleagues that I'm going to remind here every Tuesday and Thursday in this spring session because it's hundreds of millions of euros. If my colleagues from the ruling coalition didn't think I was speaking this partyly, he wasn't Mr. Radyuko's director. That's all I'm telling you right now. When it was working then, I asked you as a man. I have the papers of all state authorities, with the original stamps. The agency, then called the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, the latest information they gave me is that they have initiated a procedure against four people, one of whom is also a adviser to President Tadic – nothing. Now we're gonna talk about some cell phones, because we need to let a media tycoon out of jail, he's out of jail, so we're gonna let you out of jail, but you write that... He can't do it all the time, Mr. Minister. One day these elections will come. So there's no money for the police. I believe you see from your car, as I see from my car, how the police are dressed. They're torn up people literally, they don't have a uniform. What do they have to pay for education, health care? Not to mention 20 million-euro vaccines, hospitals. Yesterday, the day before yesterday, from the new health minister, Mr Djelic, hidden from the public – at the moment of the fire, the tip, for the first time in Serbia's history, I hope for the last time, the announcement that the bomb was planted. What does it look like? Is it organized? I heard a commission from the EU was due to come in the other day to check, because the European Union gave money to that hospital, how that money was spent. He says the conductors set themselves on fire on a wooden roof structure. I don't think so, Mr. Djelic, that hospitals are made in Europe with a wooden structure. So answer as many questions as you want and as many questions as you want. I asked this question for the best of intentions. If I were to do only what is in the interest of my party, according to the system of some opposition MPs – the worse it is, I should just be quiet here, smiling, and voices on the side of the coalition that I belong to. But when that coalition comes to power, the question is, what are we going to do on the first day, the second day and three months? You've already spent three years of your term and the results are getting worse. I don't want to look you in the eye at all, that I doubt you wanted the best and that you wanted the better, but we're asking a lot of questions here, which turned out to be a solution. And I wouldn't have dropped the crown off your head if you accepted some amendment from the opposition. We will not experience any glory, believe me, with the citizens of Serbia. They were so bitter at almost all MPs here, they belonged to a ruling coalition or opposition, because of the way they live, which is not worthy, and at the same time they see what some people do and how they live. Look out, 654,000 million for peace operations! We've solved everything in our country, and we're such a powerful and rich country that we'll be there in Somalia and Uganda to calm some people down. Mr. Djelic, 654,000, do you know how much money that is? For ten angio-halls of 600,000 euros, in ten Serbian cities. People die of heart disease, I'm not gonna tell you if it's a heart attack, hundreds of people. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52939	Time. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Dragan Stevanović. Leave some time for Mr. Krasic, too. You have a total of twenty-nine minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52940	I won't be long, but before I look back at this amendment, Mr. Djelic, I asked you a moment ago when I answered your word on how much after ten years of your presence in politics and interference in the financing of the Republic of Serbia, did you advance the tax system in terms of paying taxes on property? How much has Serbia progressed in understanding the importance of property tax in the ten years you've been selling fog on Serbia's European perspectives? That's what I asked you earlier. If I understood one of your gestures earlier compared to Mr Markicevic, you said you'd be in touch later. We have this every night on TV; when you go to the cameras, you and your government colleagues tell us about a country we don't live in. The perspective from which you are experiencing Serbia, unfortunately, is very few people in Serbia. You could have talked to us and told us what changed, how much progress you made in terms of billing, asset lists, legalization of buildings and the establishment of cadastres, the definition of land prices, the definition of the price of property square meters, ara, whatever you want, whatever you want. These are the answers you need to give to the MPs when we talk about paying the property tax. These stories of yours... Now I'm going to read what they said to Mr. Peter Jojic. These stories of how you want to spare local self-governments a double job, so that for one same calendar year they don't charge twice, or do twice the same administrative work, that's none of your business, nor does it have any serious political meaning and weight. You will adopt this law in April of the month or, behold, at the end of March of the month. The law will enter eight days after its adoption, and will apply from 1 January 2011. The only point here is the fact that this tax is charged for a calendar year and in that fact this has an excuse, but this speaks of your inability, your inability, your absence of concept and the fact that you are only versed and your daily political needs are determined when you adopt laws. The constitution says that unless eight days after adoption, the law can only come into effect if there are particularly justified reasons. This refers to the entry into force of the law, let alone its application. Where do laws have to be retroactively applied except in a state that looks like Mexico or another cowboy state? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I meant in a pervasive sense, cowboys and Indians. Ten years after the story of standards, of Europe, of regulation, of legal, financial and any other security. We're really sick of it, we're tired of you not hearing in parliament at least show enough courage and admit some weakness. Here, explain to us what to recognize as a strategy in this law. In which country, whose lobbyist, government or parliament are bringing in, adopting and designing tax policy? Here, give me a country where tax policy is run like this. Is this how someone will recognise the tax system in Serbia as predictable and therefore come to invest in Serbia? You're talking about economic justice. My people, we have a property tax that won't have the same rates on the territory of the entire Republic. Why don't we handle ourselves like that in some other tax procedures? Why, say, the VAT isn't in Surdulica 13%, in Novi Sad 18% and in Belgrade 22%? Give it to them. Let them bring it to the needs and definitions of local self-government. You can't, because it doesn't make sense. The rate must be unique. It's not the privilege of local self-government that anyone will be able to determine their own rate. It's a riding space, it's a space for one sunflower in a tax collection process. Here's why. Tell me, Mr. Djelic, what is the guarantee that on the basis of the possibilities given to municipalities to bring their own rates will respect the principle of individual economic strength? What is the mechanism for the sale and the Black Grass, because of the economic situation of people, the property tax, the property tax rate to be less than in Novi Sad? Here, just tell me. So, which mechanism provides for the law to be less than developed municipalities in the devasted municipalities of the tax rate? Of course it doesn't exist. Every local official or local government will determine maximum rates because they are forced, because they have no money that you will by law not transfer to them because you spend them on a variety of nonsense. What is the guarantee that economic justice will be respected here? I can understand that you've considered it, so to speak, it's okay, the rate will be the same. It would be more natural. The rate is the same, but it is not the same price of squares in the Shop and Belgrade, it is not the same price of land in Vlasotanc and Novi Sad, it is not the same price of real estate in southern Serbia and the north. At the same rate, those in poor areas would pay less. You're big and gallant, so you've given local self-government the opportunity to determine the rates in the range from that to that, so they'll respect the principle of justice. All of this will break on the back of the most vulnerable and poor. On the one hand, they will be broken on their backs, and on the other hand, an effect that may have a quality tax law on the property of the municipality will not have and will not be seen, because they will not be able to raise money from the taxpayers you have forced into the street, who have no job, which do not pay the salaries due to social obligations, health obligations, one, the other, the third, the third, the fifth. Give me a free answer. That was before you in the government. Workers ‘5. September" or "RS partners" from Surdulice – a broken privatisation contract after nine months of strike. The agency terminates the contract, and your government orders the Agency to return it to its owner. He goes back to the firm and after two days, he drives 50 people out into the street. You know how? By checking out the month in February, 20th and some August 2010. I'm asking you how this man is going to pay 40% increase in property tax compared to 2010. How will local self-government collect property tax, 10% increased compared to the previous year, from a company that doesn't do anything and is in a blockade? This ad hoc law writing every three weeks and promoting European values... (Vesna Pesic, from the place: These are not European values. ) They say they are, here everything is done in accordance with European standards and European values and on behalf of our European perspective. This isn't the kind of guy who wants to take us in the worst. When you have the principles of defining property taxes, property relations, asset lists and everything that you treat and implies in Serbia as in any developed and serious state, then we will be able to talk seriously about your property taxes. As your property tax, VAT, excise duties and all that the tax set of the law has experienced around New Year's Eve in the process of adopting the budget... As long as you treat the most serious matters of the state, you will be the subject of ridicule and countries in the environment and countries from the European continent and the whole world. No one will ever accept us for serious partners, associates and friends because by your conduct, by not understanding the general and public interest, you will not leave a picture of the national interest unrecognizable. You must leave power. You've been harassing Serbia a lot, ten or eleven years. This is just wasting time or buying time until the next election cycle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52941	Mr. Krassic, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52942	I will have to abide by the Rules of Procedure and talk about the amendment, as the amendment reads to delete the provision of a bill that introduces retroactiveness. This amendment aims not to apply the retroactive provisions of Articles 1, 2 and 3 after adoption. I must say, at the outset, that the legislator formally met the conditions. In his explanation, he gave two sentences, that there are justified reasons under the Constitution, and this will be a special subject of voting in the voting day. However, these basic conditions are not essentially met and there are no reasonable reasons. Why would it be justified that the government realized after fifty and a few days that she had done something wrong, so now faster or better to correct it? How can there be a valid reason for some who have approached the amendments to the law? That can't be a valid reason. Then you say -- if that didn't happen, if these first three members had been applied since 1 January 2011, then local self-governments or those doing property tax work would have to make two cuts. It's your fault they have to do two cuts, you know. I don't know what principle this debate is going on today. At the beginning of today we heard that a group of MPs who have submitted amendments, whose amendments have been adopted by the government, are actually going to meet citizens and citizens to protect them from the government and those in the same party. People, there's got to be some kind of elemental responsibility. The amendments of the MPs are an exception, not a dispute, everyone has the right to submit an amendment, but let's see what the background is, why it's done. Now we're going, so, from January 1, 2011. I have to draw attention to everyone, regardless of what this declaration of conformity says there is no European standard, this, Mr. Djelic, is a European standard. You have to confirm that, nod your head. Yes, it is. This is a European standard. It's got to be paid, and it's over. Mr. Djelic, you were abroad in 1996 when there were local elections; in Nis they patented storms and urged citizens to throw electricity bills into the barrels. I'm telling you this in advance, because it's possible that someone is now inviting citizens to throw property settlements, property tax into the barrels. To know only one thing, this is Serbia. Whoever invites citizens to throw property solutions, property tax into the barrel, after two months he'll say, "I never said that." As your Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic did in 1996, then in 2000 or some year – I said it, never. When the video showed up, he immediately seized the video. Just so you know how consistent it is. Or, as our Young One – free shares up to 1,000 euros, and two months ago – I had to win Tadic. Wait, there must be some consequence. Something's gotta happen. We can't say - we're moving on, we're moving on. Come on, let's go to Europe. Mr. Djelic, you sang that three years ago. You're missing a signature, as I see it. They say it will be in October, maybe in November; if it is not in November, maybe in December; if it is not in December, it will be 2016; if it is not 2016, when will it be? It will never be, Mr. Djelic, you know it well. Anyway, you have a nice story, so people believe, believe, believe. They have the right to believe, and then poor people pay twice. Let me remind you of some more epochal statements from this new Dossian government. Do you remember Cory Widowsky, when there was a power problem? (President: How about you get back on the agenda? Please. I'm talking about retroactivity, Mrs. Djukic. This is all retroactiveness, Mrs. Djukic. I'm talking about justifiable reasons, especially justifiable reasons why this should apply from January 1st. So the citizens found out in March that they had some obligation since January. Do you know where it still exists? It only exists in books, and it's like a negative example of how you can't do it. Now, Mrs. Djukic, remember, at a time when you were a national MP in the National Assembly and when you were the vice president of the SPS in Serbia, there was a principle which was rightly referred to at that time by the opposition, that in the year when the tax is applied, no law, no law, but previously changes the rules, six or seven months before the calendar year begins when the application of those regulations should begin. It's lost that standard. Now it is perfectly normal for us that when the Budget Law is passed, a set of tax laws and any possible changes that will be valid in 24 hours are passed. Then we have this situation. So, something that's been painted again we're painting. How did we do that wrong? Then we're talking stability, so the economic operators need to plan ahead, to know from January 1st next year what the rules of conduct are, to plan the costs, to plan the programme, to plan their development. How can he plan a program and development when he finds out in March what his obligation is since January? He couldn't even dream of what might happen. He believed... You know, Mr. Djelic, I heard a few days ago, yesterday I was in Subotica, they say – that Djordjevic who was, "Juko Bank", is he in jail? Is that where you were? What's going on here, people? Do you know, Mr. Djelic, how retroactively he will pay his property tax, this gentleman, they say, Ferenc Brynza? Seven companies are in bankruptcy and are now buying "Agrobaca". You know, you can go on TV, you can do whatever you want through the newspapers, but you can go through the people for a little bit, and you'll get this kind of paperwork. (President: Amendments to the property tax. I speak and protect the gentleman from paying taxes from January 1st this year. (President: Don't. Please, a little more serious. ) It has 104 kilometers of property on the side of the road. Isn't that right, Mrs. Comic? You don't know. (President: Your theatre is not controversial, but I ask you to be verbally on the subject. I'll let you all know. I will also inform you that the Dragon will pay the property tax. Criminal charges have been given to these officers of yours who need to work. People, wherever you turn problems, what Willa Ilic would say. Problems, problems, problems. How do you think we go along a normal path when you tell us that the European Union has no alternative? So, all this stuff you see now, it's because of the European Union, because it's standards. We should not enter the EU at all, we live by EU standards. The fact that you may not be satisfied, respected citizens, know that in action is still the old saying "an orphan twice pays". The saying is valid in Serbia. Come on, guess something. Guess what. I have to say, Mr. Djelic, to commend you, I was a little uncomfortable when these guys were criticizing you. I commend you, let's say, for the relationship you have with local self-government, here's why. You best know who's in local self-government. You know them well. You know they can handle it. You know how much he owed local self-government, who spent three or four budgets in advance. You all know it well. But there's only one problem, they're yours. Now it turns out to be Kramer versus Kramer, like something inside the family. I am saying this more so that citizens can understand the structure of this government, on which principles are based, which adheres to, what these anchors mean, the IMF, the EU, the NATO Pact. You can scream all you want, only someone from the government tells you – please, do you want to join the EU? You will! Well, if you want, then you have to wait. Well, if you want to pay for the electricity, sell the house, as Kori Udovicki said, like a woman, nonchalantly, to inform people. These are European standards. What you're saying is that someone was building a house, a cell phone, and the neighbors were helping out, so loans, then selling property, etc.? No, you have to pay your property tax. Local self-government has to live on something. How will local self-government live? The citizens have to pay. I'm saying all this so no storms show up again, because if any barrels show up, they're gonna fool the citizens again. You don't know the sequel to the barrel and the electricity bills. Later, they were cheated through some lawyers because they signed an agreement with Elektro-distribution, so they gave up the right to appeal to obsolescence. It's just that there's so many points of surprise and suspense that there's practically nothing to plan for a long time. This is just a reason where we can really give criticism in the first place in relation to the strategic definition where we are led by this power. Now someone says, well, these are not European standards. I agree that they are not European standards, I agree that it does not apply in Belgium, the Netherlands and France that we represent the European standard here, but convince the citizens, convince the main and responsible editors. If the editor-in-chief of Radio Belgrade, the Second Programme, makes a show and some critical attitude towards the EU is heard, the editor-in-chief of the Second Programme is immediately replaced. It happened a few days ago, and it's an intervention of a man from here, because it's supposed to spoil the European path. Retroactivity is not a standard. (President: Just say what does everything you say to the property tax have to do with it? You don't direct, you don't keep an eye on the agenda. ) Retroactivity, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, is not a standard. Retroactivity is an exception. Especially a valid reason. There can't be a particularly valid reason for the government to argue with itself. How can that be a reason, explain to me, please. How can that be a reason? Something has changed, some of them are going to be a little bit more hooked up, local self-government doesn't know how to do this. The fact is that local self-government doesn't even have a list of these assets and then volunteering again, selectivity, socially responsible behavior. Then I'm not surprised at the performances, where rich people finance these performances, look to change power, to free them from the obligation to pay taxes. Isn't that right, Mr. Djelic? That's right. And the rich want to control both the government and the opposition, and they don't give a shit about the election, about ideology and politics. You retroactiveness don't introduce, let the local government take some responsibility for what she didn't do, if she already had 50 days to work. No, they saw the law, they didn't want to do it by law, but let's lobby through the city conference, lobby in a different way, work out a change of law. And they did it. This next law, which has no amendments, concerns those vans, etc. There was a mistake, but there was a completely different situation. In the next law, the situation cannot be compared to the situation in this property tax law. That's what we're talking about. Now we can say - a European standard. I know, you're going to jump, you're going to have a nice story, there's no big problem, you wrote in the bill. It's listed in the chapters, here, I'll read to you now, who and how it'll most likely affect the solutions in the law, and then, the units of local self-government, they'll be very good at it. Under two, tax bonds, they couldn't wait for this bill. Well, then, what costs will law enforcement create for citizens and businesses. Well, it's just a job, so they're gonna jump out of luck. Well, third point, are the positive consequences of law-making such that they justify the costs that he'll generate? Oh, right. There are much greater positive consequences, and there is no cost. Will the law support the creation of new operators on the market and market competition? Of course, after this law 600,000 companies will form immediately. Furthermore, did all interested parties have a chance to make a statement about the law? Fifty-two days, they all pleaded, fifty-two days ('seventy-two days'' was that song). What measures will be taken during the application of the law in order to achieve what is intended by law? Of course, and there you're going to write two or three sentences, it's all well done, it's all fine, it's nice, it's RTS has to publish, of course in "The Diaries," the paper won't even publish this, there's going to be another performance, some other topic, it's all right. If someone followed the transmission they'll hear something, if they didn't follow anything, they'll hit him, get a card from the mayor, where they'll notify him - the honored sir, we'll inform you that since March 2011 you're obliged to pay a tax on the property that we cut up so much and so much from January 1st 2011. Everything's nice, everything's nice, everybody agrees, everybody's happy. How long? As long as we're all satisfied, explain to us, because that's our problem. We have a problem with the government, because of that signature... The first was the agreement, then the candidacy, and now the signature, so there will be negotiations. But when you turn around, 40,000 Serbian citizens died more than they were born in the previous year; when you turn around, you're out of a job; you see, that licking is broken; when you turn you see a realized mortgage; when you turn, whenever you turn around, you see Bozidar Djelic, our chief commissioner for joining the hole. Thank you for not giving me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52943	Which you deserve. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52944	Your Honor, Madam President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, there may not always be any warning, but that's why I'm here. There's no problem at all, first I'd like to read about the amendment, so there's a reason why the amendment was not accepted, and then I'd have a few words about taxes at some point and that some political party was experiencing taxes in Serbia. First, about the amendment. Amendment submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 8. The bill, which reads: “Article 8. The proposal for a law shall be deleted." It was about retroactivity here. It is about retroactivity from 1 January 2011. There is a very good explanation, which is why, as and why this retroactiveness is in place, I will be free to read it for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the public: "The removal of that provision, as proposed by the amendment, would result in two cut-offs for 2011 (for the period until the entry into force of this law and for the period from the entry into force of this law), which would mean for the authorities of the local self-government units a double administration and an increase in the costs that arise in this respect. “ Therefore, the legislator’s intention is exclusively to reduce costs and ensure efficient work of local self - government, and it does not in any way push hands into the pocket of Serbian citizens. I follow very well what my colleagues say in this House, and what I fail to remember I take and read. Thank God, we get a magazine here that's shared for free called "Great Serbia" in that magazine, and I've read all the numbers from first to last, you have a clearly defined political agenda for one political party. Here's what this political party was doing and talking about taxes when it was in power. Says the party’s leader: “Not only will we introduce a tax on mobile phones, because it is a luxury for citizens of this country, we also have to introduce a tax on satellite antennas, especially for these spies watching Deutsche Great, CNN, BBC, and Voice of America. What's there to inform on Bi-Bi-Si and Deutsche Veli? If he wants to, he'll pay taxes like he pays taxes on weapons and on his cell phone. “ What does the genius of economic science say further? "Inflation has taken hold again, but I am convinced that we will keep it under control. We have welcomed the war with a total monetary mass of ten billion dinars, and now we have fourteen billion dinars. It's like having a hundred dinars, and then for inflation, you're left with eighty dinars, it's like paying taxes. “ It is brilliant how you experienced tax policy in this country when you were in power, and how you experience it when you are in opposition. I don't know why you have two morals, and why does someone need to have one morale when they're in power, one ideology, and when they're in opposition to it, an ex post opposition mind arises, people care, care for the poorest layers of the population, pension care? Then there's a simple conclusion: it's good to be in opposition, because you see how good ideas come when you're in opposition. The more you are in opposition, the more good and quality ideas you will have and these ideas you will try to implement in existing laws. When you are able to exercise power that opportunity only compromises you, it only makes you what you are – Grammistic people who do not hesitate to put their hand into the people's wallet and people's pocket. As for the pen that signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, if it's empty to you, Mr. Djelic, I'll give you the ink to supplement it, because here was Mr. Stefan File, some stood still while he spoke, and some listened. Those who stood still were not concentrated enough, and those who listened heard well, Serbia is welcome in Europe, we expect to sign and receive candidate status. I thank you, and if you need a pen, I'll lend it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52945	The word is Mr. Krasic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52946	Mrs. Djukić Dejanović, I don't know what this is today, so I'm just boasting, here I am also praising Mr. Milivojevic, there's no need to brag that he's a member of the library, long ago informed us that he is a member of the library and reads and that's for every praise. I especially commend the part where he read the government's explanation, only he needs one application manual. By amending this law, the proposing government of the Republic of Serbia is helping citizens and protecting them from the same government, the proposer of the previous law. Just that little supplement, for accuracy. Otherwise, when a man reads, knowledge is power. It's for all praise. I like it best when Mr. Milivojevic, because it's a new ideology... He represents here, he always performs as the main ideologist of the Democratic Party. I always think he's Boris Tadic talking. You see with what attention and praise I go when Mr. Milivojevic... Go ahead, Mr. Milivojevic, you have my full support, and when it's time I'll vote for you instead of Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52947	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52948	I thank all those on whom my words work and who, behold, are about to join the Democratic Party MPs' club. You don't have to wait for the election, you can vote right now for these amendments to the law, vote for the whole set of laws that we're proposing. I thank you for your support and for your trust. I'm glad I made it through the power of the argument to convince you. I invite you to join me in the library, because the library is a useful institution, you can learn a lot, especially what you missed in your former life and work. I also recommend that you read less "Greater Serbia" and read more and more carefully these laws that the Government makes. You can learn a lot. After all, a man learns while he's alive. Life is ahead of you and I want you to really spend that time ahead of you in learning and working, to get better and to fix together what you did when you were in power. Thank you. [[National Ambassador Zoran Krasic wants a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52949	No, that's enough, you said nice things to each other. Mr. Bozidar Djelic has a word. Here you go, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52950	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on a few suggestions and ideas in the shortest lines. The government remains in a position to accept two amendments and reject the remaining ones, above all because these amendments, which have been envisaged, would not be one-time, but double taxation, because the rates would be different for 2011. It's certainly not in the interest of our citizens. These amendments and additions to the Property Act were firstly submitted to the National Assembly in response to the adoption of one amendment in another but related law. That's how our tax system synchronises. The tax system must have, above all, internal coherence and neutrality. The provisions here allow that principle to be preserved. The second element is, of course, narrowing down the tax mass. The introduction of these ten aris as untaxable is one way to recognize and support the progressiveness of taxation at this point in the crisis. However, most interventions today were a little broader, broader, and perhaps broader topics. I would only identify three questions that, at least in principle, would not give answers, but perhaps one fundamental philosophy of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to do. The first question was whether it was possible to have a different tax system. One thing is true, and this is that at this point, the tax system of the Republic of Serbia, as is the case with most tax systems in the countries of transition, is based on indirect taxes. That's what this esteemed home and our citizens have absolutely the right to debate. On the other hand, that's another point, here you criticize the various provisions of a direct tax, and the property tax is a direct tax and the property is one of the most reliable signs of a particular property i.e. economic power. If we want to gradually increase the share of direct taxes, which can only be taxed in economic terms, proportionately, progressively and aggressively, which is certainly not the idea of a vast majority in our country, then we have to accept the fact that there will be more direct taxes. Therefore, when we talk about this law, we must always see an alternative, and that alternative is to increase again a little more indirect tax, which because it is indirect affects everything in the same way, and those who are poor and those who are rich. The third element is in the application of one of these direct taxes. Of course, the social reality of our country is that any application of any direct tax must be very thoughtful. It's true that there's been a lot of squares. It is true that in many urban areas we still have a heterogeneous core, with some luxurious facilities next to the constituencies, some people who have extremely high incomes to people who have very modest incomes. There are people who only have seemingly very expensive and valuable assets, and on the other hand, modest incomes. Therefore, the provisions contained in this law recognise that reality of the Republic of Serbia, which is that strengthening that part of direct taxes in our country must be done, but it must be done progressively and must respect the social reality of our country at all times. From there, the provisions we see here – about the maximum increase that can be determined in a given year, differences between legal and natural persons, or the possibility given, in the spirit of fiscal decentralisation, that local self-governments have a maximum tax rate, but also flexibility to determine different rates of tax in areas. There, that's the approach. I believe one such approach, perhaps in theory, would not be ideal... Maybe someone might think that it's better to immediately move on to a much greater share of direct taxes, maybe someone thinks it's much better to suddenly cut one unique rate in Serbia, that there are no exceptions, there's no exception, there's no exception, or there's no need to give flexibility to local self-government, which knows best what the reality of the place is. That is why I believe that there is a further debate on the tax policy of the Republic of Serbia and how it should continue. This crisis, and that may be the last thing I want to say right now, is pressure and reason more to think very carefully about what is being applied in our country. That is why I would like to encourage all MPs to do what is probably one of the most noble parts of your call, which is also to point out to the representatives of the government and our citizens to all individual situations that would potentially indicate that those solutions proposed at this point in crisis do not correspond to the optimum. Believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will also try to close small businesses in case one formal obligation is not fulfilled, and on the other hand, there is also tax evasion. We have at this point a number of our citizens who for years, not to say for decades, regularly pay all taxes, pay all communals, but because of the economic crisis, they get into certain existential problems. These are difficult times and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and, in particular, the tax policy, has to wash it well and to change what needs to be changed, to make the tax system as fair as possible, more transparently as possible, to secure financing on the one hand, and on the other hand to ensure fairness in the collection of these necessary funds. As far as local self-government is concerned, it is clear to all of us that there have been extorted moves in the past two years, which have been an effect of the economic crisis. The definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia was not to increase large tax forms. Other countries reacted differently. The neighbouring Croatia, for example, has increased the overall value added tax rate from 18% to 23%. Some other countries combined a slightly smaller tax increase with a significantly higher level of borrowing of their countries. The Republic of Serbia has decided, i.e. The government chosen not to increase the high tax rates and that, if there is an increase in the debt, it is primarily justified by investments in infrastructure. The effect was to reduce public spending of two billion euros annually, which is not small. It is true that transfers to local self-government have been reduced. As a former finance minister, who had the honour of proposing budgets from 2001 to 2004, we had an increase of 2.5 times the public finances of local self-government, I believe that any progress must, above all, reflect itself through the return of transfers to local self-government to one adequate level. This year's first step is done. The total amount of transfers from the central budget to local self-government budgets has been increased by 23%. What's very important is that for those least developed municipalities, it's back to the level of 2008. It's about 40 least developed municipalities. Is that enough? No, but, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, be assured that if the possibility arises this year, in 2011, or, more likely realistic, for the 2012 budget, one of the first objectives of that budget will be to return the transfers to local self-government to what was the case before the crisis. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2011-03-30-0.u52951	Dear Mr Vice President, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, I thank you for your participation in the work today, on the arguments you have now made. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. As we have carried out a search of the bill, both in principle and in detail, the MPs will be informed of the day of the vote, when we will declare this law. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
